
                               1 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Is Investigating Fraud at D.M.V.

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1324 words


STATE investigators have spent more than a year trying to catch Department of
Motor Vehicles employees accused of selling fake driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants. Hundreds of licenses and registrations may have been sold illegally,
and state lawmakers are concerned that Connecticut has become a national
clearinghouse for identification cards for undocumented immigrants.

Already, one department employee has been charged with accepting bribes in
return for licenses and another employee has been suspended from her job. Gov.
M. Jodi Rell has appointed a lawyer to oversee a new D.M.V. Document Integrity
Unit, which will monitor department employees who process documents. The State
Police is investigating several D.M.V. locations.

State officials were concerned that major damage had already been done, both to
the safety of residents and to the state's credibility.

''Of course it's an embarrassment to the state,'' said Lt. Gov. Kevin B.
Sullivan. ''It's a huge embarrassment.''

Mr. Sullivan said he was concerned that officials at the department didn't act
quickly enough, waiting before alerting other authorities. Once the people
responsible for selling licenses are caught, he said the most important
questions will be: ''Who first knew and when did they first take action?''

The state has been looking into ''the improper handling of Connecticut driver's
licenses'' since July 2003, according to Mrs. Rell, who released a statement on
the investigation on Nov. 10. In the statement, she said she had asked for extra
help from the United States Secret Service, assigned two more State Police
officers to investigate and requested a performance review of the D.M.V. from
the auditor of public accounts.

Mrs. Rell said that improperly issued licenses had been revoked, but the State
Police and D.M.V. had still not determined as of Nov. 16 how many were obtained
illegally. Mr. Sullivan said the state suspected that hundreds of improper
licenses were issued. But as of Nov. 16 only three licenses or registrations had
been revoked, according to Bill Seymour, a spokesman for the D.M.V. Mr. Seymour
stressed that the State Police and the department have to prove that a license
was obtained illegally before they can revoke it, and that process was
continuing.

Determining which licenses need to be revoked, however, is proving complicated,
Mr. Sullivan said, because the department's record-keeping system makes it
difficult to determine who issued which licenses.

''There is little or no way to go back,'' he said. ''Absent credible eyewitness
testimony, there is no way to go back and realize who issued the documents. When
it comes time to put people on trial, it will not be an easy case to make and it
should be.''

The investigation became public earlier this month after WTNH-TV broadcast a
story in which a Florida businessman said he sent the Connecticut D.M.V. a
letter saying he was concerned that his employees had obtained documents from
Connecticut illegally.

Neither Mr. Seymour nor Sgt. J. Paul Vance, spokesman for the State Police,
would answer detailed questions about the cases.

The one case that has resulted in an arrest is detailed in an affidavit for an
arrest warrant. Channie Jamison, 32, of Norwalk and who worked at the Norwalk
D.M.V. office, was arrested on Aug. 25 and charged with six felonies, including
forgery and conspiracy to commit forgery, receiving a bribe and conspiracy to
receiving a bribe, and making a false statement and conspiracy to making a false
statement. Ms. Jamison, who has since resigned from the department, is out on
$20,000 bail and is awaiting trial.

The affidavit, completed by Detective Daniel T. Crowley of the State Police,
tells the story of Jairo Torreblanca, 27, a Chilean immigrant who needed a
driver's license for his job cleaning office buildings. Mr. Torreblanca had been
stopped by the police and told that his international driver's license was not
valid. He said he was in the United States on a tourist visa and didn't have a
green card, making him ineligible for a license.

But he soon found out there were other ways of getting a license in Connecticut.
Through a series of contacts, he learned about a man who a guy who could get him
the license. But it would cost him $3,000. He met a man, later identified as
Alexis Perez, in Bridgeport and they drove to Norwalk, where they met Emmanuel
Dodoo, a Bridgeport resident who has also been charged in the case. Mr. Dodoo,
according to interviews in the affidavit, knew Ms. Jamison, the D.M.V. employee,
and he worked as an intermediary between her and people who needed licenses.

Ms. Jamison told the police that Mr. Dodoo would tell her when a customer was
coming, and if the customer's application had an ''X'' marked on the back, she
would complete the paperwork despite not receiving the required documentation.
She would then put the paperwork for the application in the trash or file it in
an ''obscure file.'' At first she processed the applications for free as a favor
to Mr. Dodoo, but later began receiving as much as $1,500 for each application.
Ms. Jamison said she had helped Mr. Dodoo, who she met in 2000, with documents
14 or 15 times, according to the affidavit.

Mr. Dodoo, Mr. Perez, Mr. Torreblanca, and Luis Martinez, who is suspected of
setting Mr. Torreblanca up with Mr. Perez, have also been charged. None of them
could be reached for comment.

Mr. Martinez's son, Christian Fernandez, first told a state trooper about the
documents, according to the affidavit. Christian Fernandez turned in his father
and Mr. Torreblanca, who is also a relative, the affidavit says.

Ms. Jamison was unavailable for comment. The phone number listed on her bail
papers had been disconnected. She pleaded not guilty on Oct. 12.

Dave Cullen, the state's attorney for the Stamford/Norwalk Judicial District,
said he was only prosecuting the case involving Mr. Torreblanca, but suspected
Ms. Jamison has arranged illegal document sales numerous times.

The Norwalk case was only one of the State Police investigations into illegal
documents. Investigators were looking into at least one more criminal case, Sgt.
Vance said, and also considering whether to complete more wide-ranging probes.
An employee in the Bridgeport D.M.V., Venita Bines, was placed on paid
administrative leave on Aug. 28 in connection with the investigation, but has
not been charged with a crime. She could not be reached for comment. Mrs. Rell
also announced that two other D.M.V. employees, who were not identified, were
under investigation.

Mrs. Rell said she was confident new procedures, including the Document
Integrity Unit, would help prevent fraud. Before the current investigations
began, D.M.V. internal audits were more concerned with financial issues than
with whether the documents issued by the agency were valid, Mr. Seymour said.

''Those reviews would not necessarily have turned up this issue,'' he said.

Mr. Sullivan questioned why motor vehicle administrators haven't been fired. He
pointed to the recent problems with documents as well as the failures in the
state's emissions testing program. Mr. Sullivan wondered why Gary DeFilippo, the
agency's commissioner, had not been released.

''I was always surprised that she did not replace Commissioner DeFilippo, even
just on the basis of the emissions nightmare,'' he said, speaking of Mrs. Rell's
decision to keep Mr. DeFilippo in her administration after she took over for
John G. Rowland. ''I thought he would be one of the ones she would replace early
on. It's an agency that definitely doesn't need the kind of political leadership
that it has.''

Mr. Seymour would not comment on any impending shakeups at the agency or Mr.
Sullivan's criticisms. Mrs. Rell still has confidence in the commissioner, said
Rich Harris, a spokesman for the governor.

''She continues to have faith in him,'' he said, ''but she is demanding better
performance from the agency.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: State officials say some fake licenses were sold at the
Department of Motor Vehicles office in Norwalk, above. (Photo by Chris Maynard
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: Ruling Favors Initiative On Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 96 words


A federal judge has cleared the way for a voter-approved initiative to become a
law that will deny some public benefits to illegal immigrants. The judge, David
C. Bury of Federal District Court in Tucson, denied a request on Wednesday for a
preliminary injunction and lifted a temporary restraining order he granted on
Nov. 30 in response to a lawsuit by the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund. The initiative, known as Proposition 200, requires proof of
immigration status to obtain some government services, and proof of citizenship
when registering to vote.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 20, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 95 words


An article on Aug. 19 about a crackdown in New York State against the issuing of
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants referred incompletely to the occupation
of Margaret Stock, an associate professor of national security law who said the
crackdown was harmful to national security because it was easier to track
terrorists if they had licenses. Professor Stock, who teaches at the United
States Military Academy and is a military police lieutenant colonel in the Army
Reserve, is also an immigration lawyer. A reader noted the omission in an e-mail
message last week.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 27, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans Squaring Off Over Bush Plan On Immigration

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26


The battle within the Republican Party over immigration policy was joined
Wednesday as President Bush vigorously promoted his proposal for a guest worker
program and conservatives in Congress introduced an alternative proposal to
tighten immigration restrictions.

At a news conference, President Bush said again that he considered his guest
worker proposal ''a priority'' even though Senate Republicans left it off their
list of top goals. ''A program that enables people to come into our country in a
legal way to work for a period of time, for jobs that Americans won't do, will
help make it easier for us to secure our borders,'' Mr. Bush said, adding: ''I
know there is a compassionate, humane way to deal with this issue. I want to
remind people that family values do not end at the Rio Grande border.''

Party conservatives, however, have strenuously opposed a guest worker plan since
Mr. Bush introduced the idea in 2001, even staging a losing revolt over its
inclusion in the party platform at the 2004 Republican convention. Many
conservatives call the president's ideas ''amnesty'' -- a term Mr. Bush disputes
-- because his plan includes ways for currently illegal immigrants to obtain
temporary worker permits.

On Wednesday afternoon, Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the Wisconsin
Republican who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, again introduced a
measure to block illegal immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses.

At a news conference, he said the committee would not consider other immigration
proposals, implicitly including the president's, until his own measure passed. A
similar measure was removed from a bill to enact the recommendations of the 9/11
Commission last year. Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, is expected to
introduce a driver's license restriction this year.

Mr. Sensenbrenner said his bill was primarily directed at border security,
distinguishing it from other changes in immigration policy. ''Immigrants are not
terrorists, except a few of them,'' he said. ''The legislation that was
introduced today is designed to get the bad apples out of the barrel before the
barrel was spoiled.''

He said a group of House Republicans had written a letter to Mr. Bush urging him
to provide full financing for provisions in last year's antiterrorism bill
doubling the number of border patrol agents and tripling the number of beds for
detaining illegal immigrants over the next five years. The Department of
Homeland Security said recently that it was planning a smaller increase in
financing, drawing the ire of advocates of tighter immigration laws.

Asked about the president's proposal, Mr. Sensenbrenner said his committee was
''going to be plenty busy with other priorities, a lot of which are the
priorities of the White House.''

In an interview, Representative Chris Cannon, a Utah Republican who supports the
president's plan, said a guest worker program would not amount to an amnesty
because it would include a monetary penalty for currently illegal immigrants.
''The people who want to kick them all out are not reasonable people,'' he said.

But Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado and chairman of the
Congressional immigration caucus, vowed to defeat any program that in his view
would reward lawbreakers, even questioning the president's motives. ''Could it
be just the corporate interests, the money interests that rely so heavily on
cheap labor?'' he asked.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 22, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Governor Vetoes Measures On Immigration

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, May 21


Gov. Janet Napolitano vetoed two proposals on immigration on Friday, rejecting
bills that would have prohibited illegal immigrants from receiving child care
assistance and given the police the power to enforce federal immigration laws.

Ms. Napolitano, a Democrat, said the police-powers proposal would not provide
any additional money to pay for the new duties, and said it would cost officials
$19 million in Phoenix, the nation's hub for transporting illegal workers.

The other bill would have prohibited illegal immigrants from attending adult
education classes, receiving child care assistance and paying cheaper in-state
tuition status at public universities.

''While I agree that public programs should not be available to those who
consciously decide to come here illegally, this bill goes too far by punishing
even longtime residents of this state who were brought here as small children by
their parents,'' Governor Napolitano wrote.

Arizona has been dogged by a heavy flow of illegal immigrants since the
government tightened enforcement in El Paso and San Diego in the mid-1990's.

While immigrants provide the economy with cheap labor, Arizona and other states
shoulder the health care and education costs for illegal workers and their
families.

Representative Tom Boone, a Republican who sponsored the immigrant-restriction
bill in the Arizona House of Representatives, said it was wrong to let immigrant
students take advantage of in-state tuition when out-of-state students who are
legal citizens must pay more to attend college in Arizona.

Also Friday, the governor signed into law a bill that bars local governments
from putting taxpayer money into day labor centers that help illegal immigrants
find work.

Emboldened by a voter-approved law last year that denies some government
benefits to illegal immigrants, state lawmakers have filed two dozen bills to
confront the problems caused by the thousands of people sneaking into the state
each year from Mexico.

Three have been signed into law. Ms. Napolitano has vetoed several others,
including a proposal for the state to have a private prison built in Mexico to
house immigrants now jailed in Arizona for criminal convictions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 26, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Legacy in Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 381 words


Early in his administration, President Bush promised to tackle America's unsafe
and unfair immigration system. That was before Sept. 11, before Afghanistan,
before Iraq, before Katrina and Rita, so most people figured there was no more
room on the president's platter for 11 million illegal residents of this
country. But in recent days, administration officials have resumed their
scheduled briefings with business leaders and thinkers and members of Congress
to remind them that the White House is serious about fixing America's broken
immigration policy.

President Bush deserves credit for pushing this difficult issue in the right
direction, despite pressure from anti-immigration alarmists who want to build an
electrified fence around America. Mr. Bush's people have made it clear that the
president wants to focus on security at the border, enforcing immigration laws
for employers and employees, and finally establishing a guest worker program
that is not an amnesty program. Participants in White House briefings say that
they were told that the president would not support an immigration plan that is
only about border security -- as some Republicans in the House want. Mr. Bush
wants a guest worker program, presumably one open to illegal immigrants already
here.

For anyone really trying to untangle the immigration mess, the most taxing
problem is how to draw those illegal workers out of the shadows and into the
system. If a new immigration plan gives them work for a few years and then sends
them home before they can apply to return, many will opt to stay underground.
That is why it makes more sense to give these workers the choice of trying to
stay here -- even if it means a substantial fine and a longer wait to get a
green card. The most workable bill, a bipartisan effort by Senators John McCain
and Edward Kennedy, puts the fine at $2,000 and sends these applicants to the
end of the line. That is the least America could do for people who do so much of
our dirty work.

President Bush needs to sell the idea of a secure, workable and humane
immigration policy to his own party, of course. But if he and his fellow
Republicans followed those guidelines, comprehensive immigration reform could be
among the most important and positive legacies of his presidency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 29, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Passion for Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 633 words


Each time President Bush talks about immigration reform, he makes it clearer
that as a former governor of Texas, he understands this issue on a personal
level. At his year-end press conference last week, Mr. Bush talked about
enforcing the nation's borders while showing the ''compassionate heart of the
American people'' to those coming for work. He talked about keeping out
smugglers and drug runners, while letting in those who will take the jobs that
Americans won't take. He noted that these immigrants were coming over the border
to put food on their tables and that they wanted to be able to go back home,
then return to work in the United States.

''Family values do not stop at the Rio Grande river,'' he reminded the members
of his own party who are already rising up against him on this issue. And,
finally, he said he was ''passionate'' about changing the immigration laws in
his second term.

All of this compassion and hunger for reform could be welcome news, not only for
the millions of people who live shadowy lives as illegal immigrants but for all
the Americans who hire them or work with them or care for them or fear them. The
president is in a singularly powerful position to untangle a system that he
recognizes as inhumane, inefficient and dangerous to Americans and immigrants
alike.

President Bush certainly has political capital, which includes the fact that
many Hispanics voted for him this year. And his party also commands Congress,
which needs to approve such a plan. Even with all that going for him, change
won't come easy. Already the noisiest opponents of immigration reform, most of
them Republicans, have started pounding their tambourines. (The leader of one
anti-immigrant group denounced Mr. Bush as a ''lame duck'' shortly after the
newly re-elected president put immigration on his priority list.) Meanwhile, the
Democrats are eyeing the talk of Republican immigration reform warily. For
workable reforms to emerge in the months to come, President Bush will have to
hold onto the bulk of his own party members while finding Democratic support to
help deal with the concerns of unions and pro-immigrant groups.

The president, who revived his promise of immigration reform last January, has
never released any real details, and the White House has not put forward a
reform bill. Fortunately, Mr. Bush and his staff do not have to start from
scratch. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, has been working on a
promising bill with two Republican representatives, Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake,
also from Arizona.

The Arizona bill is a comprehensive one, designed to help control the nation's
borders while providing a work force for many jobs Americans can't or won't
fill. The bill would not grant amnesty, but it would establish a guest-worker
program that would let participants apply eventually for legal status, without
jumping ahead of other applicants. The process would not be swift or
uncomplicated, but Senator McCain and his colleagues recognize that an
immigration overhaul will not succeed unless it offers at least some path to a
green card. Illegal immigrants would be unlikely to come into the daylight if
they would automatically be sent home after a set period as guest workers. The
McCain-Kolbe-Flake bill does not yet remedy other human problems, however, like
the interminable waits for some visas and the need to help families separated by
borders.

Immigration reform will take time, and the longer it takes, the more illegal
immigrants will stream into the country. Estimates have grown from about eight
million, when the president first began promising a reform plan, to about 10
million today. If President Bush wants to tackle a huge problem that cries out
for a bipartisan solution, he could not have picked a better target.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 11, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Passes Tightening Of Laws on Immigration

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10


The House of Representatives voted on Thursday to approve a bill tightening
immigration laws in the name of border security. The main provisions of the
bill, which passed 261 to 161, block states from issuing standard drivers'
licenses to illegal immigrants and make it easier for judges to expel asylum
seekers.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin and sponsor
of the bill, said that the measures were necessary to fulfill recommendations of
the commission that investigated the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

Noting that several of the men involved in those attacks were illegal immigrants
who had American drivers' licenses, which they used as identification when
boarding planes, Mr. Sensenbrenner said the bill ''aims to prevent another
9/11-type attack by disrupting terrorist travel.''

Democrats argued that Congress had already fulfilled the commission's
recommendations by ordering the Department of Transportation, the Department of
Homeland Security and the states to work together to set national standards for
drivers' licenses. The National Governors Association said the new bill placed
an undue burden on states to update and standardize their procedures for
granting licenses.

Democrats, the evangelical organization World Relief, Amnesty International and
other groups contended that the tougher barriers to asylum seekers could send
legitimate refugees home to torture or other abuse.

Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, said the
bill ''targets legitimate victims of persecution -- innocent people under threat
of torture or death for their religious beliefs'' and ''unconstitutionally
forbids federal judges from hearing asylum cases involving real threats of
torture.''

Some supporters of the bill's provisions acknowledge that it faces an uphill
battle in the Senate, which blocked some similar drivers' license provisions
last year.

The vote sets the stage for a fight among Senate Republicans over President
Bush's proposal to create a guest worker program open to illegal immigrants. Mr.
Sensenbrenner and Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader,
have said the House will not take up the program until passage of the drivers'
license measure. But Senate Democrats are seeking to push for the proposed guest
worker program first, in part to play up the Republican divisions.

Mr. Sensenbrenner and other proponents of the restrictions have sought to
separate it from the guest worker plan, which many opponents characterize as
offering amnesty for law breakers because it would give illegal immigrants a
path to legitimacy.

In an apparent trade-off to win more support for the guest worker proposal, the
White House issued a statement that it ''strongly supports'' the main provisions
of the bill that the House passed Thursday while calling for modifications ''to
ensure the changes do not unintentionally create new barriers to asylum.''

This week Mr. Delay discussed a possible compromise between Republicans and
President Bush on the guest worker program that would allow immigrants to apply
from abroad with a job lined up, with a fixed return date and without the right
to bring their families. In the Senate, Senator John McCain, Republican of
Arizona, and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, are working
with a bipartisan group of senators on an alternate immigration bill that
includes some border security steps as well as a version of the proposed guest
worker program.

In an interview Thursday, Mr. McCain said the drivers' license restrictions in
the House bill ''addressed significant portions of one aspect of the problem,
but it does not address the overall solution to the problem'' and he called the
asylum system changes ''more draconian.''

''We would like to examine what we do with the 8 to 13 million people who are
already here illegally, because we think we need comprehensive immigration
reform, as does the president,'' he said, adding that he ''absolutely opposed''
deporting them, as many House conservatives insist be done.

Mr. McCain said the president's proposed guest worker program would differ from
an amnesty because illegal immigrants would be subject to fines and delays
before eligibility for citizenship.

But Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said, ''The president's guest
worker program is not going anywhere, period.'' Mr. Lott added: ''He needs to go
ahead and accept it. We are not going to do anything that looks like, smells
like or in anyway resembles amnesty, period.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Border Patrol agent yesterday along the barrier that
separates San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico. (Photo by David Maung/European
Pressphoto Agency)
 Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the bill's sponsor. (Photo by
William Philpott/European Pressphoto Agency)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A West Too Wild

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 561 words


Along a border between Mexico and Arizona, a few dozen gunslingers are
patrolling for illegal immigrants, and the fact that they have attracted mostly
television cameras so far takes little away from the danger they pose to
themselves and others. It would be far saner to leave the patrolling of the
border to the border patrol. These self-proclaimed ''Minutemen'' -- whom
President Bush has rightly labeled vigilantes -- should put their guns away and
look where the real solutions to America's flawed immigration policy should be
found: in Washington.

Mr. Bush is the only one who can really stop the ''Minutemen'' from taking the
law into their own hands. Instead of letting the locals cope with illegal aliens
who die in boxcars or commit crimes within the protections of their shadowy
world, it's time for the president to take up the cause about which he has said
much but done little.

Mr. Bush has long talked about a more humane and secure guest-worker plan --
often speaking with passion and empathy about his own experiences in Texas. His
best speeches about those millions of immigrants who work at the nation's
lowliest jobs are usually to Hispanic audiences that know the painful stories
well and are part of a voting group the Republicans badly need.

While the president has failed to push immigration reform, some of his fellow
Republicans, like Representative James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, are
seizing the issue, in effect doing the same thing to the immigration debate that
the vigilantes are doing on the border.

Mr. Sensenbrenner got the House to pass an anti-immigrant measure called the
Real ID bill. The Senate should avoid it altogether since the legislation would
further penalize those who have escaped to America from politically treacherous
regimes by setting up an unnecessarily strict standard for granting asylum. In
some cases, immigrants might need written ''corroboration'' of their persecution
from the persecutors themselves.

The bill would also bar the federal government from recognizing driver's
licenses from states that do not verify the driver's immigration status. For the
11 states that have wisely decided that the point of a driver's license is to
make sure someone knows how to drive, that could mean extra trouble. Drivers
from those states, which include even Mr. Sensenbrenner's own Wisconsin, might
not be able to use their licenses to board airplanes or enter federal buildings.
Moreover, this bill comes as the federal government is already outlining new
rules for state licenses that have been carefully balanced to weigh these
concerns.

What Mr. Sensenbrenner's bill really tries to do is turn a driver's license into
a de facto national ID card. That issue is too important to be slipped like this
through the back door. More ominously, this bill could interfere with the kind
of broad bipartisan reform effort that Mr. Bush has appeared to support. A
reform package now being put together in the Senate by John McCain of Arizona
and Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts is the kind of humane legislation that the
president should embrace.

In the meantime, you have to feel sorry for the people in places like Arizona --
the residents, the immigrants and the border police. They hear about the
sideshow in Washington while they watch a wrenching daily drama play out in the
desert right before their eyes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Promises Better Effort On Immigration

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8


With his plan for overhauling immigration law stalled on Capitol Hill, President
Bush told Congressional leaders on Wednesday that he had not done a very good
job of selling the idea to the American people and would renew his call for the
legislation, the White House and Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority
leader, said.

''I don't think I'm betraying a confidence,'' Mr. DeLay told reporters. ''He
admitted that he hasn't done a very good job in being clear to the American
people where he's coming from and he's going to try to do better.''

Mr. DeLay said Mr. Bush believed that his goals could be accomplished in
piecemeal fashion, and would begin with a push for improving border security
before turning to the more controversial aspect of his program, an initiative to
permit some illegal immigrants to work in this country legally. Mr. DeLay said
he also favored that approach.

''You've got to convince the American people that we're going to secure our
borders, that we will actually enforce the law that we passed, and then you can
get to a guest worker program,'' Mr. DeLay said. ''I think if you do a big
comprehensive bill it confuses things.'' He added, ''What I just said mirrors
exactly what the president said, without any prompting.''

A White House spokeswoman, Erin Healy, said: ''Border security is one of the
president's highest priorities. The president recognizes that we need to be
placing as much emphasis on communicating our ongoing efforts to strengthen
border security as we are on immigration reform, and he told members he wants to
continue working with them.''

Advisers to the White House said Mr. Bush had been working on a new immigration
initiative that would most likely begin this summer.

Congress has already taken up the issue of immigration policy this year as part
of legislation approving emergency spending on the war in Iraq. The measure,
which has been signed by the president, included language that requires states
to check the legal residence or citizenship of any applicant for a drivers'
license.

But many conservatives have balked at the guest worker idea. ''I'm one of those
who believes in a guest worker program, but not a guest worker program that
gives amnesty, gives credit to people who have broken the law in any way shape
or form,'' Mr. DeLay said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Tom DeLay said border security should precede a
guest worker program. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh/European Pressphoto Agency)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 14, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Steps Toward a Sensible Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS.

E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 739 words

DATELINE: San Antonio


What do you say to the working-class guy from the south side of San Antonio? He
feels his wages are stagnating because he has to compete against illegal
immigrants. He watches thousands of people streaming across the border,
bankrupting his schools and health care system, while he plays by the rules.

He's no racist. Many of his favorite neighbors are kind, neat and hard-working
Latinos. But his neighborhood now has homes with five cars rotting in the front
yard and 12 single men living in one house. Now there are loud parties until 2
a.m. and gang graffiti on the walls. He read in the local paper last week that
Anglos are now a minority in Texas and wonders if anybody is in charge of this
social experiment.

What do you tell him about the immigration system?

Here's what you tell him: You're right. The system is out of control. But we
can't just act like lunkheads and think we can solve this problem with brute
force. Tough enforcement laws make us feel good but they don't do the job. Since
1986, we've tripled the number of Border Patrol agents and increased the
enforcement budget 10 times over, but we haven't made a dent in the number of
illegals who make it here. We've got agents chasing busboys while who knows what
kind of terrorists are trying to sneak into this country.

The problem is that we make it nearly impossible for the immigrants to come here
legally. We issue about 5,000 visas for unskilled year-round labor annually, but
the economy requires hundreds of thousands of new workers to clean hotel rooms
and process food. We need these workers but we force them underground with our
self-delusional immigration policies. As Tamar Jacoby of the Manhattan Institute
says, ''It's very hard to enforce unrealistic rules.''

So it doesn't matter how many beer-swilling good old boys appoint themselves
citizen border guards, we're not going to get this situation under control until
we understand this paradox: The more we simply crack down, the more disorder we
get. The only way to re-establish order is to open up legal, controllable
channels through which labor can flow in an aboveground, orderly way. We can't
build a wall to stop this flood; we need sluice gates to regulate the flow.

Smart people understand this, and there has been an important change in the
immigration debate. Among practical people, it's no longer pro-immigrant folks
against anti-immigrant folks. It's no longer law-and-order hawks versus amnesty
doves. Practical people understand the only way to establish law and order is to
create a temporary-worker program and step up enforcement to make sure people
use it.

In the Senate there are two bills, which if combined would get us a long way
toward a solution. The McCain-Kennedy bill has an effective temporary worker
program. The Kyl-Cornyn bill has tough border security provisions. As Jacoby
notes, the sponsors of both may come to realize the two bills are not rivals.
They complement each other.

This reform won't satisfy people who want immigrants to disappear. But most
Americans just want to know the system is under control, and this will do it.

That still leaves the transitional problem of what to do with the 11 million
illegals who are already here. We can't build an aboveground immigration system
if we've still got millions living in a criminal swamp below.

We're not going to deport 11 million people, many of whom own homes and
businesses. But normalizing their status is a question of balance. If we treat
them too punitively, we'll just push them further underground. On the other
hand, they broke the law, and they have to pay. McCain-Kennedy would lure them
into the sunlight with the prospect of normalization, but would make them pay
all back taxes and a $2,000 fine to become regularized, and they'd have to get
in the back of the line. That's a start, but the penalties will probably have to
be a bit tougher to be politically palatable.

So here's the bottom line for the guy in San Antonio: Everybody's expecting a
big blowup on this issue, but we've got a great chance of enacting serious
immigration reform. It won't solve all problems. There will still be wage
pressures and late-night parties. But right now immigration chaos is spreading a
subculture of criminality across America. What we can do is re-establish law and
order, so immigrants can bring their energy to this country without destroying
the social fabric while they're here.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Guilty Plea In Border Case

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 120 words


Farida Goolam Mahomed Ahmed, a resident of Johannesburg, pleaded guilty in
federal court in Houston to violating immigration laws by altering her passport
and making a false statement to a Border Patrol officer. Ms. Ahmed, 48, has been
in custody since her arrest on July 19 as she tried to board a flight to New
York at the McAllen-Miller International Airport. Her itinerary indicated that
she had traveled from South Africa to Mexico by way of Dubai and London before
entering the United States without a visa, wading across the Rio Grande. The
case heightened concern that terrorists could easily enter the country through
Mexico. Ms. Ahmed will remain in custody until she is sentenced in January.
Steve Barnes (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Choices on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 111 words



To the Editor:

I, too, have a passion for immigration reform, a passion that takes into account
not the emotional tugs associated with the plight of illegal immigrants, but the
lack of rational accountability inherent in current immigration policy and
border control.

Imigration reform is long overdue. The children of illegal immigrants should not
be rewarded with citizenship and its privileges: free public education, medical
care or Medicaid entitlements.

People and businesses that hire illegal immigrants should be penalized and
should pay the costs associated with deportation. Illegal immigrants should be
deported.

Francie Entz
Grants Pass, Ore., Dec. 29, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 6, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mexican Manual for Illegal Migrants Upsets Some in U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 605 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 5


The Mexican government drew fire from American advocates of tighter borders on
Wednesday for publishing a pamphlet that instructs migrants how to safely enter
the United States illegally and live there without being detected.

Officials here say the small booklet, illustrated in comic-book style, is not
intended to encourage illegal immigration, but to reduce the loss of life. Last
year, more than 300 migrants died while crossing rivers and deserts to reach the
United States.

The guidebook also advises would-be migrants to avoid hiring professional
immigrant-smugglers and to refuse to carry packages for others. It also
instructs people never to lie to border officials, carry false documents or
resist arrest.

But groups favoring stricter immigration controls said the pamphlet amounted to
a how-to manual for illegal immigrants. The booklet gives advice on what clothes
to wear when fording a river and how to cross a desert without getting
dehydrated.

It also counsels migrants to keep a low profile once in the United States,
telling them, for instance, to stay away from loud parties or discos that might
be raided by the police and to stay out of domestic disputes, which might lead
to an arrest. Finally, it lists what rights migrants have if caught, among them
safe transport home, medical care, food and water.

''This is not the action of a friendly neighbor,'' said Representative Tom
Tancredo, the Colorado Republican who chairs the Congressional Immigration
Reform Caucus. ''What would the Mexican government say if we encouraged our
citizens to violate Mexican law?''

Mexico's Foreign Ministry, however, said its intent in publishing the ''Guide
for the Mexican Migrant'' was to warn migrants of the dangers they might face if
they choose to slip illegally into the United States.

Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico's under secretary for North American affairs, said
the guide was written to dissuade people from making a clandestine journey or at
least to warn them of the perils and legal risks should they decide to go. About
1.5 million copies of the guide were printed and distributed throughout the
country in December.

''Just last year over 300 Mexicans died in their attempt to enter the United
States, the vast majority if not all of them in search of a job,'' Mr. Gutierrez
said. ''The Mexican government obviously has an obligation to take all actions
possible in order to avoid the loss of life.''

He added, ''It is a natural and fair response to consider this as an attempt to
promote undocumented immigration, but that is absolutely not the intent of the
Mexican government.''

But groups seeking stricter immigration laws argued that Mexican officials were
being disingenuous in asserting that the pamphlet does not encourage illegal
migration. They say that Mexico wants to continue exporting unemployed people
and reaping the benefits of money sent home to their families.

''If the Mexican government were really very concerned about their citizens
dying in the desert, why doesn't it use its army and police to prevent people
from crossing in those areas?'' said Steven Camarota, director of research at
the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors tighter borders.

Others said the pamphlet only highlighted the need to revamp the American
immigration system, which seems to have no effective response to the yearly
flood of Mexican migrants seeking jobs. ''The publication is nothing more than
another symptom of a broken immigration system,'' said Paul L. Zulkie, president
of American Immigration Lawyers Association.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 6, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Little Help on Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By JAMES R. EDWARDS Jr..

James R. Edwards Jr., an adjunct fellow with the Hudson Institute, is co-author
of ''The Congressional Politics of Immigration Reform.''

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1008 words


IN December, the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, asked federal immigration
officials to assign eight immigration officers to his county or to give
Suffolk's law enforcement officers direct access to databases that would allow
them to determine the immigration status of people they arrested and to transfer
custody of illegal aliens to federal authorities.

Unfortunately, his proposal was met with a pointed lack of enthusiasm. Immigrant
advocates and several politicians were outraged. They claimed that such a move
would create unnecessary tension between local police officers and the immigrant
community. And Washington simply responded to Mr. Levy's proposal with
assurances that federal authorities would help the Suffolk police if the
department called with a problem.

That's a shame.

Immigration -- both legal and illegal -- is reshaping Long Island. The 2000
census found that 154,144 Hispanic residents live in Suffolk County, up from
87,852 in 1990. While county-level figures aren't available, census figures show
New York State's illegal alien population rising to 489,000 in 2000 from 357,000
in 1990.

And with illegal immigration have come problems. Day laborers have flooded the
streets, unlicensed contractors have been on the rise and houses and apartments
have become overcrowded, with many no longer meeting building code standards.
Last year, more than 10 percent of those arrested in Suffolk County were illegal
aliens.

Many politicians look the other way. Those who try to address immigration's
undesirable aspects are quick to back down once words like ''racist'' and
''xenophobe'' enter the mix.

But there are human costs to not acting. For starters, tensions are bound to
rise -- just look at Farmingville. Four years ago, a Mexican man, fleeing from a
car accident, ran a red light and slammed into the side of a car, killing a
38-year-old woman and injuring her 8-year-old daughter. Charged with drunken
driving and vehicular manslaughter, the man got his employer to post bail and
then became a fugitive after his first court appearance. That same year, two men
posing as contractors abducted and beat up two Mexican day laborers. And in July
2003, a group of teenagers firebombed the home of a Mexican family that
reportedly was living legally in the United States.

There are financial costs, too. While regional figures are hard to come by, the
business magazine Barron's recently reported that the nation's underground
economy has swollen to almost $1 trillion. Much of the research was based on
immigrant communities in the New York metropolitan area. And according to Bear
Stearns, whose researchers were cited in the article, Long Island is
experiencing serious growth in the undocumented labor force. This shadow economy
robs local, state and federal governments of tax revenue -- money that finances
schools, roads, libraries and sewers.

Mr. Levy is one of the few local officials who has been willing to discuss
immigration effects -- both positive and negative -- on the region's
communities. By suggesting that the local police help to enforce immigration
laws, he is trying to devise solutions to changes that are touching millions of
lives well beyond Suffolk County. And he's right to do so because without
reasonable, official response, citizens could be prompted to initiate strong
measures as they did in Arizona.

Last year, the number of illegal aliens who crossed the southwestern border of
the United States rose 24 percent, to 1.14 million from 905,065 in 2003. This
past fall, frustrated voters in Arizona, which is the main border-crossing
location, passed a ballot initiative to keep illegal immigrants from receiving
state services and from registering to vote. Using a state referendum to compel
officials to do the right thing certainly beats vigilantism, but it would have
been better had local and state officials responded promptly and constructively
to people's concerns, instead of dismissing them and passing the buck to
insufficient federal action.

In making his proposal, Mr. Levy was trying to find a way to address the problem
before it gets too out of hand. Enacting solutions like the ones he proposed
would add effective new tools to law enforcement. Why? Because simply knowing
when someone who is arrested for larceny or robbery is also breaking immigration
laws and facing removal from the country would help judges withhold bail. Since
those in the country unlawfully are often a flight risk, the police could alert
the judge if a suspect is an illegal alien, and the judge could keep the suspect
behind bars.

Local law enforcement officers already have the authority to assist the federal
government in the enforcement of federal laws, but many seldom use it where
immigration offenses are concerned. Not only are some local police departments
reluctant to get involved in federal matters, but many are not sure if they have
the authority to check immigration status. And those police departments willing
to take on the responsibility don't have the access to databases that would give
them the needed information. The fact is that most immigration violations
constitute continuing criminal offenses. Illegally crossing the border is a
crime and re-entry after being deported is a felony. Moreover, according to law
enforcement officials, unlawful presence in America is often a precursor crime
to additional crimes like document fraud, narcotics trafficking and human
trafficking. (At least 17 percent of federal inmates are illegal immigrants.)

Local officials may dismiss the immigration-related problems as a federal
responsibility. But allocating local resources and ensuring local public safety
rest with local government. Prudent local officials would be wise to check
suspects' immigration status routinely as a way to deny bail and keep alien
lawbreakers off the streets and get them out of the country.

Mr. Levy was right to respond to citizens' valid concerns about immigration's
undesirable consequences. It's too bad others didn't see it that way.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS DIGEST

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 573 words



Wal-Mart Settles Charges Over Illegal Immigrants
Federal prosecutors and immigration officials announced that Wal-Mart Stores had
agreed to pay $11 million to settle accusations that it used hundreds of illegal
immigrants to clean its 3,600 stores in the United States.

The settlement grew out of enforcement actions in which 100 illegal immigrant
janitors were arrested in 2001 at Wal-Mart Stores in Pennsylvania, Ohio,
Missouri and New York and another 245 were arrested in October 2003 at 60
Wal-Marts in 21 states. [Page A1.]

Wireless Internet Goal of Thieves
Federal and state law enforcement officials say sophisticated criminals have
begun to use the unsecured Wi-Fi networks of unsuspecting consumers and
businesses to help cover their tracks in cyberspace. [A1.]

U.S. Warned on Net Security
A report by computer experts criticizes the federal government for inadequate
financing of research on computer network security, and for focusing on
classified research that is inaccessible to the commercial sector. [C2.]

Nasdaq Declines to 4-Month Low
The Nasdaq composite index fell to its worst finish since Nov. 3 on weakness in
semiconductor stocks. The Nasdaq composite lost 8.63 points, to close at
2,007.79, and is down 7.7 percent so far this year. The Dow Jones industrial
average rose 3.32 points, to 10,629.67, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock
index was down 0.56 point, to 1,189.65. [C4.]

Deal for 'American Idol' Company
CKX, the company owned by Robert F.X. Sillerman, has acquired 19 Entertainment,
the British concern that owns ''American Idol'' and its franchises, for $161
million and 1.87 million shares of CKX stock. [B9.]

Judge Reviewing Stewart Sentence
An appeals court in New York granted a request from Martha Stewart to give her
trial judge the option to change her sentence, but people involved in the case
expect the judge to leave the sentence unchanged. [C4.]

Honda Tries to Spruce Up Civic
Sales of Honda's Civic slumped 9.3 percent in January from the prior year and 34
percent in February, but the pace of the decline has surprised some analysts who
await a new design for the car, which will go on sale this fall. [C3.]

No Pact Reached in TIM Hellas Talks
Talks between Apax Partners and Texas Pacific and the majority owner of TIM
Hellas failed to produce a purchase agreement. [C3.]

Oracle Raises Its Bid for Retek
Shares of Oracle fell 62 cents, to $12.54, after the company raised its bid for
Retek to $631 million, or $11.25 a share. The offer surpassed SAP's latest bid
of $617 million, or $11, and escalated the two-week-old bidding war. Before
Oracle's announcement, Retek's board had unanimously accepted the SAP offer.
Retek would have to pay SAP a termination fee of $25 million to walk away from
the deal. [C4.]

Executive Resigns From Boeing
The Boeing executive whose romantic relationship with the former chief
executive, Harry C. Stonecipher, led to his ouster, has voluntarily resigned
from the company. [C10.]

Union Pacific Moving Freight Lines
Following a string of serious railroad accidents, Texas Gov. Rick Perry signed
an agreement with the nation's largest railroad, Union Pacific, to work toward
moving freight lines out of congested urban areas. [A10.]

Consumer Confidence Declines
The University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence index dropped to
92.9 this month, and import prices rose 0.8 percent last month, including the
biggest gain in foreign petroleum costs since October. [C2.]


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the Nasdaq Composite closes since January 2004.Chart:
''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,629.67 up 3.32Nasdaq composite -- 2,007.79
down 8.6310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.51% up 0.05The euro -- $1.3311 down
0.0065The dollar -- 104.68 yen up 0.16Graph shows Oracle share prices for the
week.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 13, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Novel Tack on Illegal Immigrants: Trespass Charges

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK; Katie Zezima contributed reporting from Boston for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: JAFFREY, N.H., July 12


One day in April, Jorge Mora Ramirez stopped his car on the side of a road in
the small southern New Hampshire town of New Ipswich and was making a cellphone
call when a police officer approached him.

The officer questioned Mr. Ramirez, a 21-year-old Mexican who acknowledged that
he was in the country illegally, and the New Ipswich police tried to get federal
immigration authorities to arrest him. But when immigration officials demurred,
not considering him a priority given scarce enforcement resources, the police
acted on their own. They took the highly unusual step of charging Mr. Ramirez
with criminal trespassing, and held him overnight.

''I wanted the federal government to understand that I was going to take some
type of action,'' said the New Ipswich police chief, W. Garrett Chamberlain.
''If I can discourage illegal aliens from coming to or passing through my
community, then I think I've succeeded.''

At a minimum, Chief Chamberlain has succeeded in creating controversy, as well
as interest in his idea. Not far away, the police chief in Hudson, N.H., has
charged 10 illegal immigrants with criminal trespassing in recent weeks. Other
police departments, in states that include California, Florida and Georgia, have
called Chief Chamberlain, and immigration experts say that if the New Hampshire
charges are upheld, some local law enforcement officials around the country will
most likely copy the approach.

The case against Mr. Ramirez, who lives in Waltham, Mass., and was working as a
construction worker here in Jaffrey when he was charged, is also being watched
by civil liberties advocates and the Mexican government, which is paying for his
lawyers. The matter went to court on Tuesday in Jaffrey/Peterborough District
Court, where the defense asked Judge L. Phillips Runyon III to dismiss the case,
arguing that immigration enforcement was the federal government's job and that
the New Hampshire criminal trespassing statute was intended to apply to those
intruding on private property, not to illegal immigrants.

''What the state is attempting to do here is to step into the federal
government's shoes and determine whether a person is licensed or able to remain
in the United States,'' said one defense lawyer, Randall Drew.

The prosecutor, Nicole Morse, argued that local police agencies had a right to
cite illegal immigrants.

''Just as with a sex offender,'' Ms. Morse said, ''the hope is that they will go
and register with the state. And if they don't, then they are violating the law.

''Indeed, the state's interest in this case is security. Being able to identify
people who are in our community is essential to the police being able to
maintain and keep the peace.''

Judge Runyon deferred his decision on whether to dismiss the case until he could
hear similar motions in the cases from Hudson. But his questions to both sides
underscored the combustible and sensitive nature of immigration enforcement in a
post-9/11 world.

On the one hand, he said to defense lawyers, ''in this day and age when everyone
is so worried about having terrorists in our midst, if a local law enforcement
person is dealing with somebody that can't show some basis for their lawfulness
of being here,'' and ''they can't get any kind of response that seems to answer
their questions from Immigration, are they just hamstrung?''

On the other hand, he told the prosecutor, some immigrants might ''have a
driver's license from Germany or France but don't have any other papers'' with
them. ''Are you suggesting that those people are going to be charged
criminally,'' he said, ''because the police can't figure out that they're
supposed to be where they are?''

Noting that if Mr. Ramirez was found guilty, he would be sentenced to nothing
more than a $1,000 fine, not jail time, the judge also asked the prosecutor,
''How is national security or even local security enhanced by giving someone a
citation?''

In a state that is 96 percent non-Hispanic white but that has been seeing a rise
in its Hispanic population, Chief Chamberlain's idea was born a year ago when he
encountered a van with nine illegal immigrants from Ecuador. The federal Bureau
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, he says, was not interested in arresting
them. He decided that in the future he would use the state's criminal
trespassing law, which says that a person is guilty ''if, knowing he is not
licensed or privileged to do so, he enters or remains in any place.''

Even some critics of the New Hampshire citations, like Susan J. Cohen, a Boston
immigration lawyer, said the law's broad language made it seem applicable to
immigration.

Ms. Cohen said most states' criminal trespassing laws referred specifically to
private property and could not be easily applied to immigration. But Kris W.
Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, who was
counsel to John Ashcroft when Mr. Ashcroft was attorney general, said he
believed that New Hampshire's wording was not unusual, and added that the
charges were appropriate because the government ''has always been careful to
invite and encourage local assistance with immigration arrests.''

Not every police department would take such a tack. In Nashua, N.H., which has a
growing Hispanic population, the deputy police chief, Don Conley, said that ''I
don't think it's in the true spirit of New Hampshire's criminal trespass law.''

Opponents like Arnie Alpert, New Hampshire coordinator of the American Friends
Service Committee, say such citations will discourage immigrants, legal and
illegal alike, from cooperating with police officers. And Porfirio Thierry
Munoz-Ledo, the Mexican consul general in Boston, who attended Tuesday's
hearing, said, ''The concern is that we are dealing in a state court with
matters that belong to a federal level.''

Judge Runyon seemed somewhat concerned about that as well.

''Am I going to determine whether someone is here legally or not?'' he asked the
prosecutor. ''Isn't that what the federal immigration system is for? Is it for
part-time district court judges like me who know nothing about immigration and
arguably nothing much about anything else either?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jorge Mora Ramirez, an illegal immigrant from Mexico at the
center of an extraordinary case, in court with his lawyers for a hearing
yesterday.
 W. Garrett Chamberlain, police chief of New Ipswich, N.H., cited the state's
law against trespassing in bringing charges against Mr. Ramirez. (Photographs by
Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)Map of New Hampshire highlighting New
Ipswich: New Ipswich's approach is drawing a lot of notice elsewhere.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 13, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Towns Lose Tool Against Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Aug. 12


A New Hampshire judge on Friday threw out a novel strategy that two police
departments had tried to use to combat illegal immigration.

The strategy involved charging illegal immigrants with criminal trespassing, and
in the last few months such citations were filed against at least nine people,
most of them Mexicans, in the towns of New Ipswich and Hudson.

The police chiefs of those towns had said they decided to take immigration
matters into their own hands because overburdened federal immigration
authorities were unable or unwilling to take action against immigrants who were
not considered dangerous or otherwise a high law enforcement priority.

The towns' actions received national attention, with police departments from
Florida to California considering taking similar steps if the charges were
upheld in the New Hampshire courts. The Mexican government became concerned
enough to pay some legal fees and to send its consul general in Boston to the
court hearings.

On Friday, the judge, L. Phillips Runyon III of Jaffrey/Peterborough District
Court, said the towns' actions could not be upheld because such immigration
matters must be left to federal authorities.

''The criminal charges against the defendants are unconstitutional attempts to
regulate in the area of enforcement of immigration violations, an area where
Congress must be deemed to have regulated with such civil sanctions and criminal
penalties as it feels are sufficient,'' Justice Runyon wrote.

He noted that under the federal system, local police departments that want to be
involved in immigration enforcement may go through a training process that
allows them to become ''deputies'' of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency. That process, Justice Runyon wrote, ''is further indication that
Congress intended to preclude any local efforts which are unauthorized or based
on other than federal law.''

After the ruling, the New Ipswich police chief, W. Garrett Chamberlain, said,
''Obviously, I'm disappointed.''

Chief Chamberlain was the first to file a criminal trespassing citation against
an illegal immigrant. In April, he charged Jorge Mora Ramirez, 21, a
construction worker from Mexico, and jailed him overnight after he stopped his
car on the side of a road in New Ipswich to make a cellphone call.

The citations carried a $1,000 fine but no penalty of prison. Still, Chief
Chamberlain said he thought they would deter illegal immigrants from entering
towns that took his approach.

''I did what I feel as a police chief I felt I had to do to protect the citizens
in my community, where obviously the federal government has decided not to,'' he
said.

Chief Chamberlain added, ''I don't believe that the judge has left us much room
for appeal.''

In Hudson, another town in a region near the Massachusetts border that has seen
an influx of Hispanics in recent years, Chief Richard Gendron, who filed
trespassing charges against the rest of the immigrants in the current case,
issued a statement saying he would respect the ruling. But Chief Gendron said
''the Police Department still believes it was acting within its mission to
enforce the laws of the State of New Hampshire and was acting in the interest of
its citizens and in the interest of homeland security.''

Randall Drew, a lawyer for some of the immigrants, said his clients are ''glad
that hopefully they will be out of the limelight and go back to their normal
lives of living and working, go back to relative obscurity.''

''I think they plan on staying out of Hudson and New Ipswich, N.H.,'' Mr. Drew
added.

Michael Iacopino, president of the New Hampshire Association of Criminal Defense
Lawyers, said he believed that the cases were the result of ''a couple of police
departments with other agendas that had decided they were going to ride this
wave for as much as they could and get as much publicity as they could, and
hopefully this is end of it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 24, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  New England: New Hampshire: Immigration Arrests

BYLINE: By Katie Zezima (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 99 words


The attorney general's office has advised police departments not to arrest
people based solely on their immigration status, indicating that it will not
appeal a case dismissed by a judge last week in which two police chiefs charged
illegal immigrants with trespassing under state law.

The police chiefs, of Hudson and New Ipswich, charged at least nine illegal
immigrants with criminal trespassing this spring. Judge L. Phillips Runyon III
of Jaffrey-Peterborough District Court threw out the cases this month, saying
immigration enforcement is the task of federal authorities.   Katie Zezima (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 26, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grievance About a Policeman, Then a Deportation Hearing

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words


Waheed Saleh says he was smoking a cigarette outside a doughnut shop at the
rough edge of Riverdale in the Bronx when a police officer handed him a summons
for disorderly conduct. He protested, he says, and the officer yelled at him to
go back to his own country.

Mr. Saleh, a Palestinian, worked as a gypsy-cab driver illegally seeking fares
and was used to tickets for infractions like double parking, making U-turns and
picking up passengers. But he believed that this officer, Kishon Hickman, was
harassing him. So he complained to the Civilian Complaint Review Board, which
examines complaints against police officers.

Before he heard back from the board, however, he heard from federal immigration
authorities. About a year later, outside the same doughnut shop on the night of
Dec. 20, 2004, he was confronted by a federal immigration agent and local police
officers. The police took him into custody on administrative immigration
violations, sending him into deportation proceedings. Mr. Saleh believes it was
retaliation for his civilian review board complaint.

Now, this tiny interaction between cabbie and police officer has turned into
something with potentially far larger ramifications: it appears to be the first
test case of Executive Order 41, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's two-year-old
effort to reassure the city's immigrants that they can seek help from city
agencies without fear of reprisal based on illegal immigration status. The order
essentially codified a ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy for city workers.

Whatever the outcome -- the police deny retaliation, and the review board
rejected Mr. Saleh's claim of harassment -- the case reveals that two years
after Executive Order 41 was issued, there is no real mechanism in place to
independently enforce it, to punish violators or even to investigate complaints
like Mr. Saleh's, which was detailed by his lawyers at the Asian American Legal
Defense and Education Fund in a letter received by the Mayor's Office on
Immigrant Affairs last week.

Guillermo Linares, the mayor's commissioner of immigrant affairs, though
technically responsible for protecting immigrants' access to city agencies, has
no authority to investigate or enforce Executive Order 41, said Erica Gonzalez,
a spokeswoman. The complaint has been referred back to the very agency that it
accuses, the Police Department.

''It does appear to be a very important test of the strength of E.O. 41 and the
mayor's commitment to vigorously applying the order,'' said Michael Wishnie, a
professor at New York University School of Law who has brought several lawsuits
challenging the federal government's policies on immigration violations. ''If
the Bloomberg administration lets this stand, it sends the message: Complain of
corrupt or abusive police at your peril.''

Robert Lawson, a spokesman for Mayor Bloomberg, said there had been complete
compliance with the order. ''The mayor showed his commitment to ensuring the
immigrant community access to city services without fear by signing E.O. 41 two
years ago,'' he said. ''Since that time, city agencies have taken care to comply
with the order, and there is not a single documented case of it being
violated.''

There are exceptions written into Executive Order 41: Illegal immigrants
suspected of criminal activity or terrorism are not protected. Paul J. Browne, a
police spokesman, said that Mr. Saleh's host of summonses amounted to illegal
activity, just as a single parking ticket would.

In an interview at a diner near the same doughnut shop, Mr. Saleh said he left
his hometown of Jenin, on the West Bank, after his wife died of brain cancer, to
find a better way to support his two young children, who stayed behind with his
parents.

He arrived in November 2000 on a visitor's visa, got a valid driver's license
and stayed on illegally to work at gas stations in Rockland County and as a
landscaper in Yonkers. But after 9/11, he said, it became much harder to get
work without a Social Security card, and he joined other Arabic men driving
gypsy cabs.

''I'm running from the Middle East, from that trouble,'' he said. ''Then after
9/11, the rules, everything changed here.''

Mr. Saleh had repeated encounters with the police, and had begun to believe he
was being harassed by Officer Hickman even before the smoking incident, which
happened late in 2003. Deputy Commissioner Browne said the encounters followed
an order by the precinct commander to increase enforcement in response to
general community complaints about unlicensed cabs.

Mr. Saleh described most of the police he encountered as ''nice, honest''
officers who gave him tickets politely if they caught him breaking the rules.
Officer Hickman was different, he said. And while on duty, he was often
accompanied by a Lieutenant Nicholson, he said.

At least twice, Mr. Saleh said, he went to the 50th Police Precinct headquarters
to complain. The police told him to save his story for traffic court, he said.
He had already done that a couple of times, fighting tickets. But when he tried
to bring up what he considered Officer Hickman's harassing language, the judge
in traffic court referred him to the Civilian Complaint Review Board.

On Dec. 13, 2003, soon after the cigarette incident, he said, Officer Hickman
singled him out among 10 double-parked drivers for a summons, telling the others
to move on. When Mr. Saleh protested, he says, the officer yelled and threatened
to arrest him. That incident became the only one of his complaints the Civilian
Complaint Review Board investigated, according to Andrew Case, a spokesman for
the board.

According to Tushar J. Sheth, Mr. Saleh's lawyer, it was still under
investigation in the fall of 2004 -- a typical amount of time for such a
investigation -- when Officer Hickman asked a friend of Mr. Saleh's to relay a
message to him: If he did not withdraw the complaint, the officer would ''give
him a hard time.''

About two weeks later, the federal immigration agent showed up, with a
lieutenant, Kevin Nicholson.

''While police may share immigration information about individuals suspected of
illegal activity,'' Deputy Commissioner Browne said in an e-mail message, ''the
allegation that Lieutenant Nicholson disclosed Saleh's immigration status to
retaliate against him for having filed a C.C.R.B. complaint is untrue.''

As for federal immigration officials, they said it makes no difference when, how
or why they learned about Mr. Saleh.

''ICE never discloses the source of its investigative leads,'' Dean Boyd, a
spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said. ''The method by which a
violator comes to ICE's attention has no bearing on the disposition of the
case.''

For Mr. Saleh, out on bond but facing a deportation hearing in December, that is
bad news.

''Some people, they warn me, if you start complaining about the police, for sure
they will give you a hard time about your illegal status,'' he said. ''But I
believe inside, in New York City, there is justice.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Waheed Saleh, a gypsy-cab driver, taking a break in the Bronx.
(Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush to Push for Temporary Worker Program

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 8


President Bush will make a renewed push during his second term for a temporary
worker program to give legal status to some of the millions of migrants
currently living illegally in the United States, Secretary of State Colin L.
Powell said Monday evening.

Aboard a plane to Mexico City, where he and other top American officials were to
meet Tuesday with their Mexican counterparts, Mr. Powell acknowledged that the
administration had done little to press its proposal to reform immigration laws,
announced with fanfare by Mr. Bush in January.

''In light of the campaign and other things that were going on, we weren't able
to engage the Congress on it,'' Mr. Powell said.

''But now that the election is behind us and the president is looking to his
second term,'' he added, ''the president intends to engage Congress on it.''

Under the proposal announced by Mr. Bush, foreign workers with a job or job
offer could get legal status for three years, with the possibility of renewal.

Employers would have to show that they had made an effort to find an American to
fill the job before it could be offered to a foreigner.

The proposal faced opposition from some Congressional Republicans and Democrats,
who said they feared that it would reward illegal immigrants with a fast track
toward American citizenship, a claim Mr. Bush denied.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks against the United States, Mr. Powell said, ''we have
done a lot with respect to securing our borders.''

As a result, he said, ''I sense that there could be a more favorable
environment'' for changing immigration laws. But he added, ''It's always a
difficult issue before Congress.''

On another matter, Mr. Powell noted the severe illness of the Palestinian leader
Yasir Arafat but said, ''I have been impressed by the manner in which the
Palestinian leaders back in the territories have been discussing among
themselves how to move forward.''

He expressed the hope that the ''sense of quiet and calm can be maintained and
it gives us something to work with.''

Mr. Powell, who is widely expected to step down in the next several months,
declined to discuss his own future. ''I'm very pleased to be secretary of
state,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

DeLay Sees Chance Of Immigration Deal

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8


Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader, said Tuesday that
conservatives might be able to compromise with President Bush on his proposal
allowing illegal immigrants to work in the United States legally.

Such a compromise could entail, for example, requiring illegal immigrants to
return to their native countries to apply for the program, Mr.

DeLay said.

Mr. DeLay said he talked recently with the president, who has advocated a guest
worker program that would be open to workers who are currently in the country
illegally as well as to newcomers.

''He doesn't discount the notion, for instance, that you have to apply for it in
your country of origin,'' Mr. DeLay said of the president. ''He thought that was
a great idea.''

Erin Healy, a spokeswoman for the White House, said the administration was
working with Congress on the measure's details.

Mr. DeLay's comments addressed a growing split within the Republican Party over
immigration law, pitting business groups that side with Mr. Bush against the
party's populist conservative base.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers And Bernard Kerik

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 122 words



To the Editor:

How long will this country keep paying the price for being hypocritical with
respect to undocumented immigrants? Bernard B. Kerik is only one more in a long
list of valuable Americans who have been denied the opportunity to serve their
country for having violated unsustainable, archaic laws.

The United States must come to terms with the reality that it wouldn't be as
prosperous, as diverse or even as powerful as it is today if not for the hard
work of millions of ''illegal aliens.''

A national strike of undocumented workers would surely paralyze the country,
from top to bottom. The time to bring those millions of worthy people into the
full fold of legality has come.

Gustavo Szulansky
New York, Dec. 11, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wal-Mart to Pay U.S. $11 Million In Lawsuit on Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words


Federal prosecutors and immigration officials announced yesterday that Wal-Mart
Stores had agreed to pay a record $11 million to settle accusations that it used
hundreds of illegal immigrants to clean its stores.

Federal investigators said they had decided not to bring criminal charges
against Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, because it was cooperating and
had pledged strong action to prevent future employment of illegal immigrants at
its 3,600 stores in the United States.

The $11 million payment was four times larger than any other single payment to
the government in an illegal immigrant employment case, federal officials said.
Wal-Mart, which did not admit any wrongdoing in the settlement, had $288.2
billion in sales last year. The company's stock closed at $51.45 a share
yesterday, down 88 cents.

The settlement grew out of enforcement actions in which 100 janitors who were
illegal immigrants were arrested in 2001 at Wal-Mart stores in Pennsylvania,
Ohio, Missouri and New York, and an additional 245 were arrested in October 2003
at 60 stores in 21 states. Soon after, Wal-Mart acknowledged receiving a letter
saying it was the subject of a federal grand jury investigation in Pennsylvania.

Wal-Mart has said that its executives knew nothing about the employment of
illegal immigrants before the raids and that the janitors were hired by
contractors that Wal-Mart used to clean its stores late at night. Company
officials said they used more than 100 contractors to clean more than 700 of its
stores.

''We acknowledge that we should have had better safeguards in place to ensure
that our contractors were hiring only legal workers,'' said Mona Williams, a
Wal-Mart spokeswoman.

Wal-Mart reached the settlement two months after it began a publicity campaign
to portray itself as a model employer, saying that it pays higher wages than
most retailers. Wal-Mart, which has 1.2 million workers in the United States,
has sought to improve its image after labor unions accused it of providing poor
wages and benefits and after lawyers filed class-action lawsuits, accusing it of
sexual discrimination and forcing employees to work unpaid hours off the clock.

In a statement from Washington, federal officials announced that 12 janitorial
contractors that worked for Wal-Mart had agreed to forfeit $4 million to the
government and to plead guilty to criminal charges of employing illegal
immigrants.

Many of the immigrants said they generally worked from midnight until 8 a.m.
seven nights a week, cleaning and waxing floors. They came from nearly 20
countries, including Mexico, Brazil, the Czech Republic, China, Poland and
Russia.

Wal-Mart officials said the $11 million was not a fine, but a voluntary payment
that would be used to help ensure compliance with immigration laws. Wal-Mart has
said it has cut back its use of cleaning contractors.

Joseph Hansen, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which
has sought to unionize some Wal-Mart stores, said the record payment ''should be
a wake-up call to a corporation that has systematically bent and broken the law
to increase their corporate coffers at the expense of the most vulnerable
employees.''

But Lilia Garcia, executive director of the Maintenance Cooperation Trust Fund,
a group that monitors conditions for janitors, said the settlement was
inadequate. ''The $11 million really isn't that much when you consider this was
going on in 21 states,'' Ms. Garcia said. ''It was a real pattern and
practice.'' She said that Wal-Mart was so huge that an $11 million penalty would
hardly serve as a deterrent.

Wal-Mart continues to face a federal class-action lawsuit in New Jersey
asserting that it and its contractors had conspired to violate racketeering
laws. The lawsuit says that more than 10,000 illegal immigrant janitors were
used at Wal-Mart stores and that they were virtually never paid time-and-a-half
for overtime.

''It's outrageous that this could occur in the early 21st century,'' said James
L. Linsey, the janitors' main lawyer in the case. ''They generally worked seven
nights a week, 364 days a year, and they were often locked in the stores. Now
that the federal criminal investigation has been laid to rest, it's time for
Wal-Mart to focus on the individuals who were systematically exploited and to
consider what amount of reparations is appropriate.''

Wal-Mart's lawyers have filed motions to dismiss the case, saying that the
company knew nothing about the janitors' working conditions and that the
independent contractors, and not Wal-Mart, were responsible for the janitors'
treatment.

Ms. Williams said that Wal-Mart was cooperating fully with federal investigators
because it was eager to improve working conditions for the janitors.

''We don't want these folks to be treated poorly,'' she said. ''We're spending
this money so that folks that do this can't get away with it.''

The settlement permanently bars Wal-Mart from hiring illegal immigrants and
directs it to establish within 18 months a mechanism to make sure that its
contractors ''are taking reasonable steps to comply with immigration laws.''

In the settlement, Wal-Mart pledged to train all of its store managers over the
next 18 months not to knowingly hire or continue to employ illegal immigrants.
Wal-Mart also agreed to continue cooperating with federal officials
investigating its contractors.

The settlement was announced by Michael J. Garcia, the assistant secretary of
the Department of Homeland Security who heads the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement Bureau, and by Thomas A. Marino, United States Attorney for the
Middle District of Pennsylvania.

They praised Wal-Mart officials for providing complete cooperation after the
October 2003 raids.

Mr. Garcia said the case ''breaks new ground not only because this is a record
dollar amount for a civil immigration settlement, but because this settlement
requires Wal-Mart to create an internal program to ensure future compliance with
immigration laws by Wal-Mart contractors and by Wal-Mart itself.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Frist Opposes Amendments On Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, said on Tuesday that he was
discouraging efforts to incorporate immigration and border security measures
into the Senate version of a supplemental military spending bill, which would
set the stage for showdowns among Congressional Republicans over immigration
later this year.

Meeting with reporters, Dr. Frist, of Tennessee, said, ''I am encouraging my
colleagues to defer, to postpone discussions of immigration and to postpone that
debate.''

He said, however, that he was still negotiating with senators who seek to add
immigration provisions to the military spending bill.

The House version of the bill includes provisions to block illegal immigrants
from obtaining standard driver's licenses, to make it easier to reject requests
for asylum and to override environmental rules blocking construction of a
barrier along California's border with Mexico.

Senators from each party seek to add amendments that would make it easier for
employers to hire more foreign workers.

The immigration debate reveals a fault line in the Republican Party, pitting
cultural conservatives hostile to illegal immigrants against business groups
that seek foreign laborers. President Bush has declared his support for a
guest-worker program that would be open to currently illegal immigrants.

On Tuesday, Dr. Frist called immigration ''a huge issue, an issue that we have
to address this year, that the president put a proposal on the table last year
-- legislatively, we did not address it -- I believe we have to address this
year.''

House Republicans, however, said that negotiators in a conference last year
promised that the provisions would be included in some ''must-pass''
legislation, like the supplemental military spending bill. In negotiations with
the Senate, House Republicans added, they were determined to keep the provisions
in the final version of the bill.

Senate Democrats want to offer a number of amendments seeking to loosen
immigration restrictions or expand foreign-workers programs. Dr. Frist and
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, were in talks on Tuesday
night about whether to limit the number of immigration amendments to a handful,
with some Democrats seeking assurances that the final bill would not include the
House's immigration restrictions, aides said.

Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, and Senator Barbara A.
Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, said they planned to offer an amendment that
would make more visas available for temporary seasonal workers, which they said
would be needed by the hotel and fishing industries this summer.

Meanwhile, two Republican senators, John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona,
advocating the tightening of border security along the lines of the House
measures, said they also favored deferring the immigration debate in the Senate
and enacting comprehensive measures that would also include some form of Mr.
Bush's guest-worker program.

Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform and a conservative
strategist working with the White House on its guest-worker proposal, predicted
that each side would ultimately succeed only through comprehensive legislation
that tightens border security and at the same time adds foreign workers to the
labor pool. ''Immigration reform and border security are not competitors; they
are the same thing,'' he said.

He said he believed that the House Republican opponents of the guest-worker
program would ''get boxed out by a bipartisan coalition,'' and that Mr. Bush
could achieve his guest-worker program mostly through strong Democratic support.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Battle Raging Against Illegal Workers in Idaho Has an Unlikely Driving Force

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1541 words

DATELINE: CALDWELL, Idaho


To hear people who call into Idaho's leading conservative talk radio station,
Robert Vasquez is a hero: one of the few politicians to tell it straight.

Mr. Vasquez, 55, a Republican county commissioner and Mexican-American in a
region where Latinos are ascendant, has been on a crusade against illegal
immigration, what he calls ''an imminent invasion'' from south of the border.

Mr. Vasquez has tried to have Canyon County declared a disaster area because of
the strain from illegal immigrants. He has also sent a bill to the Mexican
government for more than $2 million; that is the cost, he said, of Mexicans who
are in the county illegally.

Mr. Vasquez says the newcomers overwhelm public services, bring gang violence
and drugs, spread diseases like tuberculosis and insist on rights that should
not be granted to noncitizens.

His latest salvo, a plan to sue employers who hire illegal immigrants, has
angered the solidly Republican business community and many of the senior
political leaders in this heavily Republican state. The plan would make Canyon
County the only local government in the country to use federal racketeering
statutes against people who employ illegal immigrants, said Howard Foster, a
Chicago lawyer advising the county.

As a result, Mr. Vasquez has forced a sharp fight on an issue that poses
difficulties for Republicans, pitting people and business owners who rely on
illegal immigrants for labor against people who see them as a threat to jobs and
security.

The struggle here is contained to Canyon County, west of Boise with a population
of 151,000. But it is part of a broader clash taking place across the country in
the Republican Party; President Bush is pushing a guest worker program for
illegal immigrants, while other Republicans are supporting private efforts to
patrol the border and calling for additional muscle to seal it off.

Mr. Vasquez says it is a fight the party needs to have. ''Some people say I'm a
racist, that I'm a traitor to my heritage,'' he said. ''There is nothing racial
about this. The only color involved is green -- for money.''

Such talk has brought many people to the commissioner's side. ''We talk a lot
about Mr. Vasquez on the air, and most of our listeners are on his side,'' said
Paul Schneider, a morning host of KBOI News Talk, Idaho's leading talk radio
station. ''But he's a real thorn in the side of the mainstream business
Republicans.''

With both parties trying to court Hispanic voters, politicians who have jumped
into the immigration debate, like Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, have
found the issue to be perilous. Mr. Schwarzenegger was criticized by many
Latinos after he praised a group of citizens patrolling the border.

Many farmers and construction contractors here say they could not survive
without the pool of workers from Mexico. They have lined up behind a proposal by
the state's senior senator, Larry E. Craig, a Republican, to allow illegal
immigrants to stay in the country under certain conditions, a variation of a
similar plan offered by President Bush.

While promoting his bill this year, Mr. Craig said that 72 percent to 78 percent
of the agricultural work force was here illegally and that without these workers
''we could literally collapse American agriculture.''

Farmers and contractors also accuse Mr. Vasquez of painting an overly harsh
picture of Mexican workers.

''If he wasn't a Mexican-American himself, he would be labeled a racist and no
one would listen to him,'' said Keith Esplin, executive director of the Potato
Growers of Idaho. ''He's attacking good people, good workers. You've got to have
that population, because they're doing the jobs that no one else wants.''

In response, Mr. Vasquez says the wing of the Republican Party represented by
Mr. Craig has sold out on the immigration issue to business interests. Mr.
Vasquez is exploring a run for governor or Congress next year, with this issue
as his central theme.

Whether Mr. Vasquez can make headway in a statewide election is an open
question. Many of the agricultural interests are big Republican donors, and Mr.
Vasquez said he was likely to have trouble raising money from them. He is also
likely to face stiff resistance from the Latino community, which is small but
fast growing.

In Canyon County, for example, nearly one in five residents is Hispanic, census
figures show. Statewide, Latinos make up 8 percent of the population, but they
represented only about 4 percent of the voters in last year's election.

Leaders in both parties have generally shied away from calling for strong
measures against illegal immigrants, fearing a backlash. Whether the political
dynamic would change with a Latino leading the way would be one of the things
that a statewide run for office by Mr. Vasquez would test.

''Mr. Vasquez does have populist support,'' said Garry Lough, executive director
of the Idaho Republican Party. ''But I have to believe that this issue is going
to go against him among Hispanics.''

To stroll around Canyon County, which grew by 45 percent from 1990 to 2000, is
to see the transformation that is taking place throughout the West. The business
district in Caldwell has been revitalized by bakeries, clothing stores and
restaurants owned by relatively recent arrivals from Mexico.

But Mr. Vasquez points to figures that he says show how much of a drain those
arrivals can be on public services; for example, according to crime statistics
for April, about one in eight people arrested in the county was from Mexico.

''If I were governor, I would close the borders of Idaho and mobilize the
National Guard to secure checkpoints against all illegal aliens,'' he said in an
interview.

Latinos dominate the crews putting up drywall in big new houses; they mow, weed
and water the half-acre lawns; they work the fields and dairy farms; and they
staff many fast food outlets.

''We know we can't get workers any other way,'' said Ann Bates, executive
director of the Idaho Nursery and Landscape Association.

Last year, Mr. Vasquez persuaded Idaho counties to pass a state resolution
requiring people to be citizens of the United States before applying for
indigent medical care.

At the same time, Mr. Vasquez has attacked Senator Craig, accusing him of
''conspiring through legislation with the enemy'' with his bill that would grant
conditional amnesty to Latino workers.

Dan Whiting, a spokesman for Senator Craig, said: ''The question is what does
Mr. Vasquez want to do with the 10 to 12 million people who are here illegally
now? What we're trying to do is offer a workable solution.''

In March, at Mr. Vasquez's request, Canyon County asked Mr. Foster, who
specializes in civil racketeering cases, if it would be possible to use the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act to sue businesses that hire
illegal immigrants.

Mr. Foster has sued companies like Tyson Foods, accusing them of hiring illegal
immigrants as part of a plan to depress wages.

''I think it's imperative that we go after employers,'' Mr. Vasquez said. ''If
you removed the illegal aliens, these industries wouldn't collapse, but their
profit margins would probably be reduced.''

Opinions in Canyon County are mixed on what would happen if the illegal labor
pool were cut.

A longtime drywall installer, Lonnie Apperson, 67, said he had not lost any work
to competition from illegal immigrants.

''There's a lot of work everywhere right now with this housing market,'' said
Mr. Apperson, who lives in the Caldwell area. ''A good drywall man can find work
anywhere, anytime.''

Mr. Apperson said the going rate for drywall subcontracting has held steady, but
he feared that if illegal immigration increased too much, it could start to
drive wages down.

''My relatives in Arkansas said the Mexicans down there have pretty much driven
everyone else out of business,'' Mr. Apperson said.

A roofer, Ken Parise, said he moved from Portland, Ore., to Idaho because there
was so much work here. He said illegal workers had not hurt his business.

''I just don't think it's that big of a problem,'' Mr. Parise said.

But Mr. Vasquez has made it his top issue since becoming in 2003 one of three
commissioners who govern this county, after spending years working on behalf of
veterans rights groups.

Born in El Paso as the grandson of a Mexican immigrant, Mr. Vasquez joined the
Army at 17, he said, and was wounded during a tour of duty in Vietnam. He earned
two Purple Hearts and became active among groups for disabled veterans. He has
lived in Caldwell for 27 years.

''The people I speak for are the working people,'' he said.

But others here say Mr. Vasquez speaks for no one but himself.

''He's an opportunist,'' said Corrine Tafoya-Fisher, the leader of a group that
took out newspaper advertisements, with community leaders, opposing Mr. Vasquez.

''What he's done is cause a lot of divisions within this community,'' she said.
''If you're brown, you're targeted. But the Latino community is united against
him.''

Mr. Vasquez bristles at criticism from other Mexican-Americans. But as an old
soldier, he said he feared only the hits that he could not see coming.

''With incoming fire, the one that gets you is the one you never hear,'' he
said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Vasquez, top, a Canyon County, Idaho, commissioner, wants
to sue local employers who hire illegal workers. The area is growing rapidly,
aided by Latinos drawn to work in agriculture and construction. (Photo by Paul
Hosefros for The New York Times)Map of Idaho highlighting Canyon County: Canyon
County, with a population of 151,000, is 20 percent Latino.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Fair Policy On Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 216 words



To the Editor:

''Making Immigration Work'' perpetuates the myth that illegal immigrants ''take
backbreaking unskilled jobs that Americans don't want.'' This is repeatedly used
as a justification for why we should continue to tolerate a porous border: the
insinuation that our economy would collapse if these workers disappeared.

Essential service workers include the construction trades: plumbers,
electricians, bricklayers, cement finishers and laborers, as well as other
skilled or semiskilled workers. These blue-collar trade jobs are traditionally
well paying and respectable ways to make a living.

When I look around in my community, these are mainly the jobs now being taken by
Hispanic immigrants, most of whom are probably undocumented workers. There are
many low-income citizens in my community who would welcome the opportunity to
work at these jobs, but who are not being hired because the construction
contractors hire undocumented workers at lower wages, pay them in cash and avoid
paying Social Security and other taxes on a majority of their work force.

The way to fix illegal immigration is to start enforcing existing laws
preventing the hiring of undocumented workers. If a few contractors go to jail,
the problem may fix itself.

Matthew Philpott
Baton Rouge, La., Aug. 1, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Double Trap for Foreign Workers

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: IMMIGRANTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., Sept. 5


Like so many other people here, Pedro, a landscaper from Chiapas, Mexico, is
desperately trying to get out of Biloxi. He wants to take his wife, Anna, who is
eight months pregnant, someplace cleaner and safer, wherever that might be.

But aside from being low on gas like everyone else, Pedro, who would not give
his last name because he is undocumented, is nervous about traveling in a city
swarming with police officers and National Guard troops.

Bran Dize, a prep cook from Spanish Town, Jamaica, near Kingston, worries that
Hurricane Katrina may suddenly have made him an illegal immigrant because, he
said, his guest worker visa requires him to work at a casino -- the Beau Rivage
-- that, for all practical purposes, no longer exists.

Hurricane Katrina has left its victims feeling vulnerable and uncertain, but for
many noncitizens trapped here, the anxiety is especially acute because they
worry that they will jeopardize their legal status if they try to leave.

There are worries, too, about those who may not have survived the storm. The
Mexican government has opened two mobile consulates in the affected areas, one
in Mobile, Ala., and the other in Baton Rouge, La., to begin looking for tens of
thousands of their citizens reported missing. The authorities in Mexico
estimated that 145,000 Mexicans live in the area. At a tense meeting on Friday
with immigration officials from the Jamaican government, a group of about 40
Jamaican guest workers from the Grand Casino, the Beau Rivage and the Casino
Magic fired a battery of tough questions.

''Will we get paid for the remaining three months left in our contracts?'' one
woman asked from the back of the crowd gathered at the Fairview apartments here.
''We don't have plane tickets back to Jamaica,'' another said. ''Who will pay
for these?''

Solid answers were in short supply. ''I'm looking into this right now, but you
have to be patient,'' said Barbara Dacosia, who oversees the 950 or so Jamaicans
who work in casinos along the Gulf Coast in a nine-month guest worker program.
''We're going to do some practical things, and we're going to do some tropical
things, and that means we're going to pray.''

Much like these immigrants, the city of Biloxi, defined over the past century by
its transient culture of summer vacationers, sailors and gamblers, is at a
standstill. Boats have been washed ashore. The number of visitors has dropped to
zero from 10 million a year. The floating casinos have sunk. And movement is
difficult.

''We tried to get gas, but when we got to the counter with our container, the
man waved his hand and said no,'' Pedro, the Mexican landscaper, said in
Spanish. ''We couldn't say anything because we thought he might get mad and call
the police.''

Jose, also a Chiapas native who did not want to give his last name because he is
undocumented, said that the only people he knew outside of Biloxi lived in
Denver. But aside from having less than $20 left, he said he was also unsure
whether he could make it that far without getting caught by the immigration
authorities.

Like the many immigrants who came to the area as cheap labor to help rebuild
Biloxi after Hurricane Ivan, Jose arrived in the area in September 2004 looking
for contract work. ''If I get a chance to get out of here, I'm going,'' he said.
''This is all I know.''

Ian Nelson, a Jamaican guest worker who for the last six months had been a
housekeeper for the Grand Casino, said he would also rather not stay in the
country. But as the only source of income for his parents in Jamaica, Mr. Nelson
said he hoped the casino would find work for him in another state.

''I doubt they are going to help us,'' he said, ''because no one from the
company has even checked to see if their workers who are stranded here are
O.K.'' About 344 Jamaican guest workers were in Biloxi, based at the three
casinos in the city, said Ms. Dacosia, the chief liaison for the Jamaican
Central Labor Organization. It is not clear whether they will be returned home
without pay or placed in other jobs, she said.

Mr. Nelson said he had never felt more trapped in his life.

''I have come and gone under the work program for the past four years and never
had troubles with the program,'' he said. ''But I paid for my own plane ticket
and now I am here and I don't know if I will get the work and money that I was
promised.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jamaican guest workers from Biloxi's submerged casinos discussed
their options Friday at a labor meeting. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 16, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Guilty In Fatal Crossing

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 96 words


Norma Gonzalez Sanchez, 44, pleaded guilty to involvement in a human smuggling
operation in which 19 illegal immigrants died of heatstroke after they and more
than 50 others were abandoned in a sealed trailer at Victoria, Tex., in May
2003. Ms.

Sanchez admitted that in exchange for $3,800 she arranged for the transport of
two of the immigrants, one of whom died, from Mexico to the United States. Ms.
Sanchez was the fifth of 14 people charged in the case to plead guilty.
Sentencing was deferred; she could receive life in prison and be fined $250,000.
Steve Barnes (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Judge Dismisses Smuggling Charges

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 138 words


Charges against one of three defendants on trial in the deaths of 19 illegal
immigrants smuggled into the United States from Mexico were dismissed by a judge
after federal prosecutors rested their case. The judge, Vanessa D. Gilmore of
Federal District Court in Houston, ruled that the government failed to
demonstrate that the defendant, Claudia Carrizales de Villa of Houston, had
furthered a conspiracy by working at a restaurant that the government contends
was a staging ground for the smugglers.

Judge Gilmore refused motions to dismiss charges against the two other
defendants. Eleven other people indicted in the case are awaiting trial or
sentencing. The immigrants, locked in the rear of a transport truck, died of
heat exhaustion after its driver abandoned the vehicle at Victoria, Tex., in May
2003.   Steve Barnes (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Conviction In Immigrant Deaths Case

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 90 words


A federal jury in Houston convicted two members of an immigrant smuggling ring
in the first trial involving the deaths of 19 people who were abandoned in a
sealed transport truck at Victoria in May 2003. One defendant, Victor Jesus
Rodriguez, 40, of Brownsville, was found guilty on 42 counts, and the other,
Giovanni Garcia Tobar, 24, of Guatemala, was convicted on 39. Both men were
convicted of alien smuggling resulting in death, an offense that carries a
mandatory life prison sentence with no possibility of parole.   Steve Barnes
(NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Guide for the Illegal Migrant

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Word for Word/Border
Crossing; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1107 words


LAST month, the Mexican government published and distributed a comic-book-style
pamphlet, offering advice to those who cross its border illegally into the
United States, about a million people a year.

The booklet, ''Guide for the Mexican Migrant,'' immediately drew fire in the
United States from some members of Congress and from groups that favor
tightening immigration laws. These critics called the 31-page publication a
how-to manual for illegal aliens, which blatantly encourages people to break
United States law.

Officials in Mexico said that distributing the guide was not unlike providing
information about AIDS to illegal drug users. In this case, they were simply
trying to save lives by recognizing that people are crossing the border in
record numbers and that some die horribly along the way. At least 300 people
died trying to sneak into the United States last year.

Among other warnings, the government cited the risks of being victimized by
''polleros, coyotes or pateros'' -- in English, chicken herders, coyotes and
duck herders - slang for those who smuggle migrants across the border.

Excerpts from the booklet, translated from Spanish by The New York Times,
follow.   JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

INTRODUCTION

 Dear Countryman:

This guide is meant to give you some practical advice that could be useful if
you have made the difficult decision to seek new labor opportunities outside
your country.

The safe way to enter another country is to obtain your passport from the
Mexican foreign ministry, and a visa from the embassy or consulate of the
country to which you wish to travel.

Still, in practice we see many cases of Mexicans who try to cross the northern
border without the necessary documents, traveling through dangerous terrain,
which includes deserts and rivers with strong and sometimes invisible currents.

By reading this guide, you can also find out about basic legal issues concerning
your stay in the United States of America without the appropriate immigration
documentation, as well as about the rights you have in that country, once there,
regardless of your migratory status.

Always keep in mind that there are mechanisms so that you may enter the United
States of America legally.

DANGERS OF CROSSING. . .

  Crossing the river can be very risky, especially if you cross alone and at
night.

Heavy clothing grows heavier when wet and this makes it difficult to swim or
float.

If you cross the desert, try to walk during hours when the heat is not so
intense.

The highways and towns are very spread out, so it will take several days to find
roads and you will not be able to lug food or water for such a long time; you
can also get lost.

Drinking water mixed with salt will help to replace lost body fluids. Although
you will feel thirstier, there is a much lower risk of dehydration if you drink
salt water.

If you get lost, use power lines, train tracks or dirt roads as guides.

BE CAREFUL WITH 'POLLEROS'. . .

  They may try to fool you with assurances that they will take you across in a
few hours through mountains or deserts. This is not true! They can risk your
life leading you across rivers, irrigation canals, desert zones, train lines or
high-speed highways.

If you decide to resort to ''polleros,'' ''coyotes'' or ''pateros'' to cross the
border, consider the following precautions:

Do not let him out of your sight; remember that he is the only one who knows the
terrain and, therefore, the only one who can lead you across.

Distrust anyone who offers to take you to the ''other side'' and asks you to
drive a vehicle or carry a package for him. Those packages often contain drugs
or other prohibited substances. For this reason, many people have ended up in
prison.

If you transport other people, you could be confused with a ''pollero'' or
''coyote,'' and they can accuse you of smuggling people or stealing a vehicle.

DO NOT USE FALSE DOCUMENTS

  If you try to cross with false documents or ones that belong to another
person, keep in mind the following:

Using false documents or those of another person is a federal crime in the
United States, for which you can be tried and sent to prison; the same is true
if you use a false name or say you are a United States citizen when you are not.


IF YOU ARE DETAINED

  Do not resist arrest.

Do not assault or insult the official.

Do not throw stones or objects at the official or at the patrol car, as this is
considered a provocation of the officials.

If the officials feel assaulted, it's probable that they will use force to
detain you. Raise your hands slowly so that they see that you are unarmed.

Do not run or try to escape.

Do not hide in dangerous places.

Do not cross high-speed highways.

It is better that they detain you for a few hours and repatriate you to Mexico
than that you get lost in the desert.

YOU HAVE RIGHTS!

  Your rights are:

To know where you are.

To ask permission to communicate with a representative of the nearest Mexican
consulate, so that you can get help.

To refuse to make a declaration or sign documents, especially if they are in
English, without the advice of a lawyer or a representative of the Mexican
consulate.

To receive medical attention if you are injured or sick.

To be respected and treated well, no matter what your migrant status.

To be transported in a safe manner.

To have water and food whenever you need it.

Not to state your migratory status when detained.

Not to be hit or insulted.

Not to be held incommunicado.

To ask for a receipt, so that you can reclaim your belongings if they are taken
from you.

AVOID

  Avoid calling attention to yourself, at least while you arrange your stay or
documents for living in the United States.

The best formula is to not alter your routine at work or at home.

Avoid loud parties; the neighbors might be bothered and call the police and you
could be arrested.

Avoid getting into fights. If you go to a bar or nightclub and a fight breaks
out, leave, for in the confusion you could be arrested even though you did
nothing.

Avoid family or domestic violence. In the United States, as in Mexico, it is a
crime. Domestic violence is not only blows, but also threats, shouts and
mistreatment.

If you are accused of domestic violence against your children, partner or some
other person you live with, you could go to jail.

Do not carry firearms, knives or other dangerous objects. Keep in mind that many
Mexicans are dead or in prison for this reason.

If the police enter your house or apartment, do not resist, but ask for the
search warrant. It's better to cooperate and ask to be put in touch with the
nearest Mexican consulate.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings: Migrants may drown or die of thirst.
If caught, don't throw stones at the officials.
If police come to your house, ask for a warrant.
 Don't trust smugglers who promise quick transit to the other side of the
border. (All illustrations, the Mexican Foreign Ministry)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 26, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Illegal Immigrants Detained

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 115 words


Four illegal immigrants from China, two men and two women, were discovered
aboard a single-engine private plane that first fled from airborne federal
agents and then followed its flight plan and landed in San Antonio. The
authorities said after questioning the four that none appeared to pose a
security threat and that they had probably paid to be smuggled into the United
States to find work. The four are likely to be deported and the pilot, a
Mexican, will probably be charged with immigrant smuggling, the police said. The
plane was spotted by agents who were pursuing a second aircraft, which they also
forced to land, and which was carrying 100 pounds of marijuana.   Steve Barnes
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 9, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trial Starts in Nation's Deadliest Human Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 8


The driver of the sealed truck that carried 19 illegal immigrants to grisly
deaths nearly two years ago in South Texas in the nation's worst human smuggling
disaster went on trial for his life here Tuesday with the government and the
defense offering the jury sharply different pictures of his culpability.

In his opening statement, an assistant United States attorney portrayed the
driver, Tyrone M. Williams, 34, a Jamaican from Schenectady, N.Y., as ''the most
heartless, evil and cruel'' member of ''a criminal enterprise that treated
people worse than animals on their way to the slaughterhouse.''

An admitted smuggling conspirator testified Tuesday that with the passengers
suffocating and frantically punching holes into the uncooled refrigeration
trailer, Mr. Williams called him angrily to complain: ''How many people were
back there? They're messing up my truck.'' He was motivated by greed, a $7,500
payment and the promise of more work, charged the lead prosecutor, Daniel C.
Rodriguez.

Mr. Williams's lawyer, Craig Washington, conceded in his opening statement that
his client was ''guilty of transporting'' the immigrants, but said that ''every
tragedy is not a crime'' and that prosecutors ''will not prove these poor
helpless people died at his hands.'' Mr. Washington said that leaders of the
smuggling plot were to blame for the 74 people packed into the 18-wheeler and
that Mr. Williams, upon realizing their plight, rushed water to them. He also
questioned why Mr. Williams, who is black, is the only defendant of the 14
charged in the plot to face the death penalty.

Mr. Williams is charged with 58 counts of transporting and causing injury and
death to illegal immigrants.

The trailer, containing the bodies of a 5-year-old and 16 other people, was
found abandoned near Victoria, Tex., on May 14, 2003. Many others were injured,
including two who died a short time later. Mr. Williams, who had fled in the cab
of the truck with a companion, was arrested later that day in a Houston
hospital, where he had gone, he said, to seek treatment for shock and
depression.

The investigation led to a ring that prosecutors said was headed by a Honduran
woman, Karla Chavez, who organized safe houses on the Texas side of the Mexican
border where illegal immigrants stayed until they could be smuggled past Border
Patrol checkpoints and deeper into Texas. Ms. Chavez pleaded guilty last June to
a charge that could send her to prison for life, but tried unsuccessfully in
January to withdraw her plea.

Two others accused in the plot were convicted in December.

Mr. Williams's trial, which could last six to eight weeks, was repeatedly
delayed over efforts by Mr. Washington to make the government explain why Mr.
Williams alone faced capital punishment. The judge hearing the case, Vanessa D.
Gilmore, ruled at one point that she expected to tell jurors in any punishment
phase that the government had been resistant, but the decision was overturned by
the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. The United States
Supreme Court refused this week to review Mr. Williams's case, clearing the way
for the trial before a jury of seven women and five men, three of them black.

With its first witnesses, the government sought to establish that Mr. Williams
drove a refrigerated milk truck that could have cooled the passengers and saved
their lives, and that he had previously smuggled a load of illegal immigrants
without tragic results.

William Edward Idar, a supermarket clerk in Texas, testified that Mr. Williams
delivered 1,445 cases of Lactaid milk to him from Oneida, N.Y., on May 9, 2003,
and that the truck was refrigerated.

Another witness, Abelardo Flores Jr., who pleaded guilty and faces a life
sentence as an organizer of the smuggling plot with Ms. Chavez, testified that
at about the same time, he was trying to recruit truck drivers and chatted with
Mr. Williams at a produce warehouse in McAllen, Tex.

Mr. Williams was reluctant and had to be encouraged, Mr. Flores, 36, testified.
''He said he preferred drugs,'' Mr. Flores said, but ended up agreeing to carry
a load of illegal immigrants through a Border Patrol checkpoint at Sarita on
Highway 77 for $6,500.

At a brushy area outside Harlingen, while Mr. Williams sat in the driver's seat,
his truck was loaded with 60 people, Mr. Flores testified. Mr. Flores said that
the trip through the checkpoint went without incident.

A week or so later, Mr. Flores testified, Mr. Williams called seeking another
job. This time, he said, Mr. Williams arrived with a companion, Fatima Holloway,
who also pleaded guilty to a lesser role in the case.

Mr. Flores testified that he put the two up at a motel in Harlingen, took them
to dinner on May 13, 2003, and later that night led them to a wooded area where
they picked up another load of illegal immigrants. He said that Mr. Williams
demanded $7,500 and that he himself netted $11,500.

''I saw people running toward the trailer, the doors open,'' Mr. Flores said.

Mr. Flores said that he had been paid to load 60 people, but that Ms. Chavez
said 15 more were being added and would pay ''if they made it.''

Mr. Rodriguez, in his opening statement, said that Ms. Holloway, taken aback by
the stampede of immigrants, voiced surprise, but that Mr. Williams responded:
''Shut up. It's people. I know what I'm doing.''

Mr. Flores testified that the immigrants expected a short ride through the
Sarita checkpoint, but that the pickup truck and minivan that were supposed to
meet them and carry them on had been stopped at the checkpoint. Mr. Williams
agreed to take the immigrants to Houston for more money, Mr. Flores said. But in
Victoria, after three and a half hours of driving, Mr. Williams became alarmed
by signals from passing motorists, who saw holes being punched in the trailer by
the desperate passengers, Mr. Flores said. Mr. Williams stopped at a convenience
store, and he and Ms. Holloway made four trips to give the immigrants water.

Someone was crying, ''El nino, el nino,'' the prosecutors and the defense
agreed. But neither Mr. Williams nor Ms. Holloway spoke Spanish, they said, and
did not know that the outcry was for a child, now dead.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tyrone M. Williams, above, top, is on trial for his role in the
deaths, discovered when the authorities found an abandoned trailer, left, near
Victoria, Tex., in May 2003. (Photographs by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Let Them Out,' Rig Passenger Says She Cried

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 16


Wiping away tears, a woman who rode with the New York truck driver on trial in
the suffocation deaths of 19 smuggled immigrants testified in federal court here
on Wednesday that she heard banging from the trailer but could not get the
driver to stop.

''I kept telling him, 'Let them out,''' the woman, Fatima Holloway of Cleveland,
said she begged the driver, Tyrone M. Williams. But Ms. Holloway said he told
her to shut up.

Ms. Holloway, 30, who has admitted to drug abuse, pleaded guilty to a smuggling
conspiracy count and agreed to testify but could have faced more charges. She
said that when Mr. Williams found that his passengers had knocked out a
taillight for air in the sealed refrigeration truck with its cooling unit turned
off, he cursed and said that the people were ruining his truck. Then, she said,
he called someone on his mobile phone and said, ''They got to pay me some more
money for this.''

Mr. Williams, 34, a Jamaican immigrant from Schenectady, is charged with 58
counts of conspiring with 13 others to harbor and transport 74 illegal
immigrants from Mexico and Central and South America, causing injury and death.
His trailer, unhitched from the cab, was found abandoned in Victoria, Tex., on
May 14, 2003, with 17 bodies inside. Two people died shortly afterward.

Ms. Holloway's testimony appeared to signal the end of the government's case in
the jury trial before Judge Vanessa D. Gilmore.

Ms. Holloway has yet to be cross-examined by Mr. Williams's lawyer, Craig
Washington. But her account was clearly intended to discredit what the
government says were Mr. Williams's claims to investigators when he checked into
a hospital in shock after the bodies were discovered: that he was surprised to
find that people had sneaked into his truck and suffocated.

Ms. Holloway testified that a onetime boyfriend who was a drug dealer asked her
to accompany Mr. Williams from Cleveland to Houston as he delivered $15,000 in
drug money.

She said that once Mr. Williams delivered a load of milk in San Antonio, he
turned off his truck's refrigeration unit, despite stultifying heat.

She said she was surprised when Mr. Williams backed into the bushes, and she
''could hear footsteps getting on the truck, rocking the truck.''

But she said that when she questioned Mr. Williams, he said, ''Everything's
O.K.; don't worry about it.''

Later, she said, she heard banging and asked, ''Did you hear that?''

''Nah,'' she quoted him as replying. But she said, ''I know he heard it.''

She acknowledged under questioning by the prosecutor, Daniel C. Rodriguez, that
when they stopped, she did not get out and open the doors.

''I didn't want to get in trouble,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Truck Driver Spared Death In Smuggling Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 23


A jury on Wednesday convicted a trucker on human smuggling charges in the
suffocation deaths of 19 illegal immigrants in South Texas in 2003, but spared
him the death penalty by deadlocking on questions of how he was to blame.

On their third day of deciding the fate of the driver, Tyrone M. Williams, 34, a
Jamaican from Schenectady, N.Y., the jury of seven women and five men found him
guilty on 38 of 58 counts in Federal District Court here. But it also deadlocked
on the other 20 counts, including conspiracy resulting in death, which carried
possible capital punishment.

Judge Vanessa D. Gilmore declared a mistrial on the unresolved counts, leaving
it up to the government to decide by next month whether to retry Mr. Williams,
perhaps with three other defendants coming up for trial. Government and defense
lawyers declined to speculate how Judge Gilmore might sentence Mr. Williams on
the 38 counts of transporting illegal immigrants.

The charges stem from a bungled scheme by a smuggling ring that filled the
trailer of Mr. Williams's 18-wheeler with at least 74 people from Mexico and
Central America for transport through a Border Patrol checkpoint and deeper into
Texas on the night of May 13, 2003.

With the truck's refrigeration unit turned off and the trip extended by hours
because relief trucks were stopped at the checkpoint, desperate passengers
clawed holes for air but succumbed to asphyxiation, heat and thirst. Mr.
Williams abandoned the trailer with the bodies in Victoria and fled in the cab
to Houston, where he sought medical treatment and claimed surprise that people
had sneaked into his truck.

The confusing verdict, finding him guilty of smuggling but not determining his
culpability in the deaths, left lawyers and the judge arguing over whether it
was valid at all. But the judge ruled it was, declaring, ''They took the death
penalty off the table for not finding that he's a principal.''

The verdict seemed to please Mr. Williams and his lawyer, who argued during the
nine-day trial that the government had singled out his client as the first
smuggling defendant to face the death penalty because he is black.

''He gave us all a big hug and thanked us,'' the lawyer, Craig Washington, said
of Mr. Williams, who sat through the day's proceedings in a beige suit and
orange tie. Mr. Williams's mother, Dorothy Williams, who attended the trial last
week but then returned home, ''has been praying for a miracle,'' Mr. Washington
said outside court. ''I'd say her prayers have been answered.''

Mr. Washington, who presented only a single defense witness, a meteorologist who
testified about the temperature and moonlight the night of the fatal ride,
conceded in court that Mr. Williams had transported illegal immigrants. But he
argued that greedy ringleaders had overloaded the truck.

The chief prosecutor, Daniel C. Rodriguez, an assistant United States attorney,
put on the stand 21 survivors who gave harrowing testimony of failed 911 calls
and screaming and banging to attract the attention of the driver and other
motorists. The government's position was that Mr. Williams was in a crucial
position to open the doors and save his passengers.

The deadlock was signaled in midmorning when the jury sent the judge a note that
she read in court. It said the jury was ''hopelessly deadlocked'' on counts 1
through 20. It also said that on counts 21 through 58, jurors had agreed on
guilt or innocence but were also hopelessly deadlocked on a series of questions
they were supposed to answer after each finding of guilt.

Count 1 charged Mr. Williams with conspiracy to harbor and transport illegal
immigrants, resulting in a person's death. Counts 2 through 20 were not
death-penalty counts but charged him with harboring immigrants for commercial
gain.

Verdict sheets handed out to the jurors called on them to find first whether Mr.
Williams was guilty or not guilty of the count. If he was found guilty, jurors
had to answer a series of questions, including whether Mr. Williams was a
principal, or an aider and abettor or both, and whether injury or death resulted
from his actions. On those first 20 counts, the jury could not come to any
agreement.

On counts 21 to 39, which charged him in the transporting of people who
survived, and 40 to 58, involving the riders who died, jurors agreed he was
guilty. But they could not marshal the required unanimity in agreeing on the
questions about Mr. Williams's role and whether he was responsible for injury or
death.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Immigrant-Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By Julia Preston (NYT)

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 137 words


Two men accused of being leaders of an international immigrant-smuggling ring
were brought to New York on Wednesday to face trial after they were deported
from Venezuela by military intelligence police there, federal authorities said
yesterday. The men -- Niranjan Maan Singh and Ramesh Patel -- had used false
Venezuelan passports to smuggle immigrants from many countries through Curacao
to the Dominican Republic and from there to the United States, according to
federal prosecutors in Manhattan.

The prosecutors said they had identified at least 10 immigrants brought to the
United States by the ring since February 2004. Despite tense relations between
the Bush administration and Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, Mr.
Chavez's military police helped capture the ringleaders, prosecutors said.
Julia Preston (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 17, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trial Starts With Details of Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words


Ever since the rusted freighter Golden Venture grounded off Queens in 1993,
federal prosecutors have had their sights on the Chinatown businesswoman known
as Sister Ping.

Now 56, Sister Ping had a 15-year career as a top financier and enforcer among
''snakeheads,'' as Chinese smugglers are known, the prosecutors say. They say
she channeled funds to the leader of a Chinatown gang to purchase the Golden
Venture, which was loaded with smuggled immigrants when it ran aground on a
beach in the Rockaways on June 6, 1993. Ten immigrants drowned as they leapt
into the roaring surf trying to make it to American shores.

Yesterday, nearly 12 years later, she went on trial in Federal District Court in
Manhattan on charges of kidnapping and hostage taking. But the Golden Venture,
prosecutors said, was only part of her operation.

While other Chinese smugglers were bringing illegal immigrants to the United
States two or three at a time, Sister Ping loaded them by the hundreds in the
sweltering holds of cargo ships, turning smuggling into a multimillion-dollar
enterprise, a prosecutor, David Burns, said in his opening statement. ''She rose
to the pinnacle of her profession,'' he said of Sister Ping, whose given name is
Chen Chui Ping. ''She was one of the most powerful and successful alien
smugglers of our times.''

A shipload of more than 100 Chinese immigrants that Sister Ping organized and
financed in 1998 ran into stormy waters as it was unloading its human cargo off
the shore of Guatemala. One motor boat carrying immigrants to shore capsized and
14 people drowned, Mr. Burns said.

Sister Ping, prosecutors said, knew that the Golden Venture would have the
police out looking for her. As the ship sat listing in the waters off Queens,
Mr. Burns said, citing wiretap telephone conversations, she dropped from sight
in Chinatown and slipped out of the United States in early 1994.

She did not surface again until she was arrested by the authorities in Hong Kong
in April 2000, carrying a false passport from Belize under the name Lily Zheng
and $64,000 in American and Hong Kong currency.

Meanwhile, federal prosecutors won guilty pleas or convictions for six smugglers
who claimed they knew or worked with Sister Ping. They are cooperating with the
government and will testify against her, Mr. Burns said.

Sister Ping's lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, said in his opening statement that
she was never a smuggler and only ran an underground banking house that made
loans to the valiant but illegal Chinese immigrants trying to reach the United
States.

Sister Ping's enterprise was a ''money business,'' Mr. Hochheiser said, and any
involvement in smuggling was incidental to her loan-making. ''By all accounts it
was an honest business,'' he added, saying that she was never accused of
cheating.

Mr. Hochheiser argued that the prosecutors had made ''deals with the devil,''
with cooperating witnesses who he said were ''liars and murderers.'' He said
that one of the government's witnesses, Ah Kai, a convicted leader of the
notorious Fuk Ching gang in Chinatown, had been ''the genius'' who ordered the
captain of Golden Venture to run aground because he could not find another way
to unload the ship.

''You're going to be plenty uncomfortable when you see what these witnesses are
made of,'' Mr. Hochheiser told the 12 jurors.

The government's first witness, Weng Hui, testified that Sister Ping started out
in smuggling when she was living in a small sweet-potato farming town in Fujian
Province in southeastern China.

Sister Ping, a wily entrepreneur even at the height of China's cultural
revolution, saw that the demand was huge for smuggling services to the United
States, Mr. Burns said. Instead of sending immigrants one or two at a time by
airplane with falsified travel documents, Sister Ping saw that more money could
be made by moving large human shipments by boat, Mr. Burns said. She moved from
China and set up her headquarters in a storefront at 47 East Broadway in
Chinatown, the prosecutor said.

Her customers often traveled the seas for months in ''dungeon-like conditions''
in the holds of steamships, seared by the heat of the engines, Mr. Burns said.
True to her snakehead title, she sent immigrant ships on circuitous courses from
China through Thailand, and across the ocean to Guatemala, Belize and Mexico
before making it to the United States.

According to the prosecutor and the seven-count indictment, the trouble began
for Sister Ping in the 1990's when she had difficulty finding assistants to
offload big shiploads of immigrants once they reached this hemisphere. She
turned to the Fuk Ching gang to help her with the logistics, even though they
had little smuggling experience. In one case, the government charges, Sister
Ping paid $750,000 to gang members to bring three truckloads of immigrants from
Boston to New York.

The indictment accuses Sister Ping of repeatedly refusing to release immigrants
from New York warehouses, where she ordered them held until they paid her fees
-- as much as $40,000 for a trip to New York from China.

Dressed in a proper black pants suit, Sister Ping, her shoulder-length black
hair streaked with gray, sat quietly in the courtroom, listening through
headphones to a Chinese translator relaying the lawyers' opening remarks. She is
also accused of money-laundering.

''She promised hope and prosperity,'' the prosecutor charged, ''but instead
offered only misery and suffering while fattening her purse.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chen Chui Ping, known as Sister Ping, in a July 2003 F.B.I.
photograph. (pg. B1)
 Survivors of the 1993 Golden Venture disaster. Ten Chinese immigrants died when
the freighter ran aground off Queens. (Photo by Paul De Maria for The New York
Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 13, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Syracuse: Queens Men Sentenced For Alien Smuggling

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 74 words


Two Queens men have been sentenced to federal prison for smuggling eight South
Korean women into the United States from Canada.

Jin Kyoo Park, 57, of Jackson Heights, was sentenced to 16 months in prison and
Myung Woo Jun, 54, of Bayside, was sentenced to 10 months. The women crossed the
border, and the men drove to a remote spot to pick them up, court records show.
They were caught at a Border Patrol checkpoint on Interstate 87 in April 2004.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Cites Political Hurdles In Plan for 'Guest Workers'

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: WACO, Tex., March 23


President Bush promised the leaders of Mexico and Canada at a meeting on
Wednesday that he would continue pressing for changes in United States
immigration policy. But he also sought to lower expectations that a guest-worker
program would gain momentum on Capitol Hill, where it has faced resistance for
years.

''Mr. President, you've got my pledge, I'll continue working on it,'' Mr. Bush
said to the Mexican leader, Vicente Fox. Mr. Bush, Mr. Fox and Prime Minister
Paul Martin of Canada appeared together at a news conference at Baylor
University here.

''You don't have my pledge that Congress will act, because I'm not a member of
the legislative branch,'' Mr. Bush continued. ''But you will have my pledge that
I will continue to push our Congress to come up with rational, common-sense
immigration policy.''

Republicans are divided over immigration, with some conservatives seeking
stricter border controls and moderates supporting the administration's call to
give some illegal immigrants amnesty if they have been in the country at least
three years. Many of the immigrants who would qualify are Mexican, and the
proposal has long been sought by Mr. Fox.

The three men, who are often at odds over national security, immigration and
environmental policy, held these talks to begin what they called a ''security
and prosperity partnership'' for increased economic cooperation. Among their
goals: staying competitive with an increasingly robust China, imposing common
border security regulations and encouraging more collaboration across a range of
industries.

''We are seeking an objective balance between the concerns that have to do with
security and those that have to do with having a good and agile flow of goods
and people across the borders,'' Mr. Fox said through an interpreter.

Allowing a total of six questions from the hundreds of reporters gathered for
the news conference, the leaders touched on a range of other foreign and
domestic policy issues. Afterward they met for lunch at Mr. Bush's ranch, about
30 miles away.

On a question about North Korea, Mr. Bush demanded that Kim Jong Il, North
Korea's leader, return to multilateral discussions over the country's nuclear
weapons programs, but denied that he had set a June deadline.

''We didn't set deadlines,'' Mr. Bush said. ''What we said is what we've said to
North Korea: If you want the way forward, if you want to be accepted by the
world, if you want not to be isolated, get rid of your weapons programs.''

As for concrete results yielded by the talks here, Mr. Fox said a dozen working
groups would convene over the next three months to address the issues the
leaders had discussed. ''All of us have a sense of urgency,'' he said, ticking
off energy, education, technology, security and natural resources as among their
priorities.

With immigration at the forefront of their talks, Mr. Bush voiced criticism of
citizens along the border who have taken it upon themselves to enforce security.
''I'm against vigilantes,'' he said.

Responding to the president's statements, Democrats challenged Mr. Bush to
confront members of his own party who have resisted loosening immigration
restrictions, as he proposes.

''Unfortunately, the right wing of the president's party continues to put
forward proposals that neither help make progress towards comprehensive
immigration reform, nor help truly protect our borders,'' Senator Harry Reid of
Nevada, the Democratic leader, said in a statement.

                             --------------------


China Pressures North Korea

 BEIJING, March 23 (AP) -- President Hu Jintao stepped up pressure on North
Korea on Wednesday to return to nuclear talks, telling North Korea's prime
minister that dialogue was the only way to settle the dispute.

Mr. Hu offered Beijing's help in arranging new talks as he met with Prime
Minister Pak Pong Ju, the official New China News Agency reported.

Mr. Hu told Mr. Pak that ''dialogue is the only correct choice for peacefully
resolving the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula,'' the agency said. It added
that Mr. Hu promised to see that North Korea's ''rational concerns'' were
resolved -- a reference to the North's demands for security guarantees if it
gives up trying to make nuclear weapons.

Mr. Hu's comments were unusually blunt and forceful for the Chinese leader,
whose public statements are rarely so direct. Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice suggested Monday that North Korea might face sanctions if it did not
cooperate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers Treated Poorly, U.S. Panel Says

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN and MARC SANTORA; Margot Williams contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words


Thousands of people who come to the United States saying they are seeking refuge
from persecution are treated like criminals while their claims are evaluated --
strip-searched, shackled and often thrown into solitary confinement in local
jails and federal detention centers -- a bipartisan federal commission found in
a report to be released today.

The report, by the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom,
an agency created by Congress in 1998, describes an ad hoc system run by the
Department of Homeland Security that has extreme disparities in who is released
or granted asylum, depending on whether someone seeks refuge in Texas or New
York, comes from Iraq or Haiti, or is represented by a lawyer.

The New York metropolitan region ranks among the harshest in terms of the
conditions of detention centers, with constant surveillance, stark quarters and
degrading treatment. Those awaiting a court decision on asylum are also less
likely to be freed. For example, 3.8 percent of asylum seekers were freed from
the detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., compared with 94 percent in San
Antonio. There were 8.4 percent released from the detention center in Queens,
while in Chicago 81 percent were let go.

One of the experts who examined the centers for the commission, Craig Haney, a
psychologist who briefed the Senate Judiciary Committee on the subject
yesterday, said he was shocked by what he found.

''I was taken aback by the severity of conditions, the severity of deprivations
and, frankly, the expense,'' he said in an interview. He said that one of 19
centers examined handled asylum seekers differently from criminals -- in Broward
County, Fla., where many seeking refuge are from Cuba and where former Cuban
refugees form a potent political force. At $83 a day, the Florida center costs
less than half the $200 per detainee of the Queens detention center, though both
are run by the same company.

The report said that women and children seeking asylum, ''whose trauma histories
and emotional needs may be more severe and require more specialized training,''
were at greater risk of harm.

Among other recommendations, the commission urged that a high-level protector of
refugees be appointed to monitor the system and correct inequities.

Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an agency
within Homeland Security that oversees the detention of asylum seekers, defended
the system.

''We have a robust inspections program that conducts audits of our detention
facilities nationwide, and our detention facilities are accredited and subjected
to regular inspection by the U.N. High Commission for Refugees,'' he said in an
interview. ''They are clean and they are safe environments. Even better, the
detention system protects the public.''

The commission had been asked by Congress to examine the effectiveness of the
nation's asylum regulations, created in part as a response to the 1993 World
Trade Center bombings, in an effort to balance the country's desire to shelter
those suffering from persecution abroad with its need to keep out criminals and
terrorists.

The system, known as expedited removal, requires those seeking asylum at
airports and borders to be sent back immediately unless they are found to have a
''credible fear'' of persecution when questioned by immigration officers. Those
who pass the test -- a vast majority -- are then detained until an immigration
judge decides the validity of their claim. Unless they are released pending a
decision, the average detainee is held for 64 days and a third stay more than 90
days -- some even years, the report found.

The number of asylum seekers, and the rate at which they are freed, have both
dropped sharply since the terrorist attacks of 2001, the study showed. But rates
of asylum also differed sharply by national groups between 2000 and 2004, with
more than 80 percent of Cubans given a permanent right to stay, along with more
than 60 percent of Iraqis. By contrast, just more than 10 percent of those from
Haiti and fewer than 5 percent of those from El Salvador were granted asylum.
Detainees represented by lawyers were up to 30 times more likely to gain asylum,
but in some places fewer than half the detainees had lawyers.

With the exception of the operation at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in
Houston, the report found that asylum seekers were not pressed to withdraw their
asylum claims before the interview, nor were claims summarily denied. But it
found that judges often wrongly used airport statements to deny asylum later.

Before the change in the law, only asylum seekers with criminal records were
detained. Now, nearly all are locked up with ordinary criminals. In 2003, 5,585
men and 1,015 women seeking asylum were jailed. To cut down on that number, the
commission recommended that the airport interviewers, and not just immigration
judges, be given the authority to grant asylum on the spot when warranted.

Severe psychological damage is among the effects of throwing people seeking
refuge together with criminals in ''stark conditions,'' the report said,
describing 24-hour lights, chained walks to go eat, no privacy even to use the
toilet and little chance to exercise outdoors. Detainees are allowed to work but
paid $1 a day.

Five of the 19 detention centers examined had mental health staff, and none had
guards trained to work with victims of torture or repression. In most places the
treatment for those considered suicidal was solitary confinement. A footnote
pointed out that isolation was ''likely to exacerbate depression,'' not prevent
suicide.

''The whole detention system is there to break you down further,'' one former
detainee told interviewers in the report. ''You are not even allowed to cry. If
you do, they take you to isolation.''

Cut off from the outside world and not allowed incoming calls, even from a
lawyer, the detainees are at high risk for depression, the commission said, and
some even said they gave up their quest for asylum because of the unbearable
conditions.

Since the 1996 change in immigration law, critics have complained that the
system is subjecting those fleeing torture and repression to harsh conditions in
detention that can drag on for years. But this is the first bipartisan
examination based on an inside view.

One of the Republican commission members, Michael K. Young, the president of the
University of Utah and an adviser to President George H.W. Bush, said great
pains were taken to make the two-year effort politically balanced. ''That is one
of the things that gives this report real strength,'' he said.

Preeta D. Bansal, a Democrat who chaired the commission, said more research is
needed, especially on the reasons for the sharp drop in asylum seekers. ''We
have been told that in foreign countries the Department of Homeland Security is
being employed to prevent people from even getting on board airplanes,'' said
Ms. Bansal, a former solicitor general of New York State. ''We think further
follow-up needs to be done.''

The report comes the same week that asylum legislation is to be introduced in
the House by Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican
and chairman of the Judiciary Committee. Among other provisions, the bill, known
as the Real ID Act, would make it harder for refugees to get asylum.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Taking Refuge''Asylum is granted at widely divergent rates
among the largest groups of applicants. Data are from the 2000 to 2004 fiscal
years.PERCENTAGE OF APPLICANTS GRANTED ASYLUM*Cuba: 82%Iraq: 61Albania: 31China:
25Other: 24Sri Lanka: 22India: 15Colombia: 13Haiti: 11Guyana: 3El Salvador:
3*Includes other ways in which applicants can stay in the country permanently,
including withholding of deportation and adjustment of immigration
status.(Source by U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Newark: Settlement For Abused Detainees

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 132 words


About 1,600 detainees who were abused at a detention center in Elizabeth have
been granted a $2.5 million settlement from Esmor Correctional Services, which
operated the center for the federal government. After legal fees, the detainees
will divide about $1.5 million, according to a report this week in The New
Jersey Law Journal.

The detainees were held at the center between August 1994 and June 1995 for
immigration investigations, and many have been deported. Immigration officials
closed the center and ended the contract with Esmor after an investigation found
that poorly trained guards had abused the detainees, given them spoiled food and
deprived them of sleep. The detention center reopened in January 1997 after a
new operator, Corrections Corp. of America, completed renovations.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prosecutors Say Defendant in Immigrant Smuggling Case Ran an Underground Empire

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words


The Chinese businesswoman called Sister Ping was known around Chinatown as the
person to go to for smuggling immigrants. But according to testimony last week
in her federal trial in Manhattan, smuggling was but a sideline for her -- a
small part of a multinational underground empire that she oversaw from a
humble-looking Chinatown storefront.

At the height of her power, witnesses recalled, Sister Ping, whose real name is
Cheng Chui Ping, owned restaurants, a clothing store and real estate in
Chinatown, as well as apartments in Hong Kong and a farm in South Africa. But
her main, multimillion-dollar business, evidence revealed, was an underground
banking network that stretched from New York to Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong
-- and even Communist China.

One wiretapped phone call that prosecutors played in court showed that when one
of her associates lost $200,000 in a reckless night of gambling, Ms. Cheng wired
$20,000 to Hong Kong on less than a day's notice so he could begin to repay his
debt.

The collapse of her illegal conglomerate began on June 6, 1993, when the Golden
Venture, a tramp steamer that she had helped to finance, ran aground off Queens
packed with 289 famished immigrants. Ten of them died trying to swim to shore.

Although she had provided cash to buy the aging vessel in Thailand and had
scheduled for 20 of her immigrant customers to travel aboard the ship, Ms. Cheng
did not view the Golden Venture's voyage as an important business deal, the
trial evidence has shown. When it came time to unload the hapless ship, she was
overextended with other operations and not focused on its desperate passengers,
witnesses and prosecutors said.

The trial of Ms. Cheng, 56, began last Monday in Federal District Court. She is
charged with immigrant smuggling, hostage taking and money laundering. The
prosecutors' case is based on wiretap evidence and testimony from convicted
Chinese smugglers and Chinatown gang members who have been cooperating with the
government since Ms. Cheng fled the United States in 1994. Although she was
arrested in Hong Kong in April 2000, she has been vigorously fighting the
charges and it was 2003 before she was extradited to New York. If convicted on
all counts she would face a maximum sentence of life in prison.

Ms. Cheng's lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, readily acknowledged in his opening
statement last week that she was the busy chief executive of an ''underground or
unofficial bank'' for immigrants. They went to her to remit their American
earnings to support relatives at home in China -- and sometimes to bring them
clandestinely to the United States.

''There was never a thought of anyone being cheated'' in her financial dealings,
Mr. Hochheiser contended. He denied that she was directly engaged in immigrant
smuggling.

Although Ms. Cheng made millions from banking and other businesses, Guo Liang
Qi, the former leader of a Chinatown gang, testified that she kept her own cash
-- as much as $40,000 at one point -- stuffed in a refrigerator at her Brooklyn
home.

David Burns, a federal prosecutor, and the first two witnesses in the trial said
that Ms. Cheng became a snakehead, a Chinese immigrant smuggler, primarily as an
investor. She charged up to $40,000 per person for the voyage to New York from
Asia in the suffocating hold of a rogue vessel. She fronted small amounts of
cash to the immigrants before the trip. Then, Mr. Burns charged in his opening
remarks, Ms. Cheng ordered Chinese gang members to hold the immigrants at
gunpoint in warehouses in New York to make sure their relatives paid her full
fees.

''Of course, sometimes violence was used,'' Mr. Guo, a gang leader, testified
matter-of-factly about the methods he used to collect the fees.

According to the testimony, her difficulty was a shortage of workers to manage
ever-larger shiploads of customers, as she called them. She turned for help in
the early 1990's to Chinatown's feared Fuk Ching gang when it was commanded by
Mr. Guo. Mr. Guo testified that Ms. Cheng invited him to become her smuggling
partner even though he had twice broken into her house and robbed her. In one
case he had ambushed her daughter in the street at gunpoint and forced the child
to open the front door.

''Sorry, Sister Ping, everyone has their past,'' Mr. Guo testified he told Ms.
Cheng when she telephoned to make the smuggling deal.

''That's what happened in the past; now we're talking business,'' Mr. Guo said
she had replied. Mr. Guo, one of the government's cooperating witnesses, has
pleaded guilty to five gang murders in Chinatown and is serving a 20-year
sentence in federal prison.

Mr. Guo said he and Ms. Cheng completed one successful shipload of hundreds of
Chinese immigrants in mid-1992. The boat pulled into waters off Boston. Mr. Guo
and his Fuk Ching gang ''underlings,'' as he called them, sent a smaller fishing
boat to unload the immigrants, then brought them in vans to New York. Sister
Ping paid him $750,000 for his gang's services, Mr. Guo said, and still made a
nice profit from the trip.

Mr. Guo said he instructed Ms. Cheng to wire $300,000 of that money through her
network to Thailand, and he invested it in the Golden Venture, along with an
associate, Weng Yu Hui.

Mr. Weng, a convicted smuggler who also testified in the case, explained why he
and Mr. Guo had wanted to buy the Golden Venture, even though it was rusted and
one engine was failing. The captain of a Thai ship they had chartered earlier,
the Najid II, had rebelled in Mombasa, Kenya, and refused to go farther. He said
he was not paid enough to carry the dangerous cargo, Mr. Weng testified.

Nearly 300 Chinese immigrants, including 20 customers of Sister Ping, were
stranded in Mombasa for almost six months, Mr. Weng said. The Golden Venture was
sent to pick them up and continue the trip to America. Ms. Cheng instructed Mr.
Weng to be sure her customers were on the ship. But he said that when they saw
the Golden Venture, 18 of them refused to board, saying it was too small and
crowded.

She was furious at losing the smuggling deals, Mr. Weng said. ''She was quite
upset, angry, saying I didn't handle the matter properly.'' After that, she
signed over her two remaining customers to Mr. Weng and forgot about the Golden
Venture, Mr. Weng said.

Just as the vessel was approaching American shores, two brothers of Mr. Guo were
killed in a gang fight, leaving the Fuk Ching gang in disarray. They could not
help unload the Golden Venture, Mr. Guo said.

Mr. Weng testified that he and two other smugglers decided that ''we would find
a beach, and let them barge into the beach.'' Knowing nothing about boats or
navigation, Mr. Weng said he picked a beach in the Rockaways section of Queens
because it looked very sandy.

Dozens of immigrants suffered hypothermia and injuries leaping from the boat
into the frigid water. Mr. Weng said he went to Ms. Cheng's Chinatown shop and
found her watching the television news about the ship.

She was thinking of her two customers, Mr. Weng said. ''She said her luck has
not been very good lately,'' he testified. To console her, Mr. Weng said he
pointed out that the odds were in her favor. ''Out of 300 people, a few people
died,'' he said.

Mr. Burns, the prosecutor, charged that Ms. Cheng continued to finance immigrant
boats after she fled the United States in 1994, possibly until her arrest in
2000. One boat ran into a squall off Guatemala in May 1998, and 14 people
drowned trying to reach the shore, the prosecutor said.

The testimony suggested that Ms. Cheng had made several million dollars in
profits from her financial enterprises, including making loans and wiring money.
Almost all her business, witnesses said, was conducted in cash.

Included in the court record is a one-page statement by Paul J. Fazio, an
official of the New York State Banking Department, confirming that Sister Ping
never held a banking license.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Weng Yu Hui, left, and Guo Liang Qi testified against Cheng
Chui Ping. (Photos by United States Attorney's Office, Southern District of New
York)(pg. B1)
 Cheng Chui Ping, right, is on trial for smuggling immigrants from China to the
United States. Her activities came to light when the Golden Venture, left, ran
aground off Queens in 1993, killing 10 immigrants. (Photo by AP photo/Michael
Alexander)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Tells of Ocean Transfer In Smuggling of Immigrants

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 677 words


In the fall of 1992, federal prosecutors say, a vicious Chinese gangster and two
Vietnamese henchmen launched a small boat off the coast of Boston. They were
headed toward a much larger vessel out on the ocean to relieve it of its cargo.

The cargo was not consumer goods or oil but human beings, the prosecutors say --
would-be immigrants from China who had each paid tens of thousands of dollars to
be sneaked into the United States. As the smaller boat pulled alongside the
larger one, the immigrants undertook a high-seas acrobatics act, waiting for the
waves to raise the small vessel high enough for them to make the leap from deck
to deck.

This treacherous transaction was arranged, the prosecutors say, by Cheng Chui
Ping, a Chinese businesswoman known in Chinatown as Sister Ping. Ms. Cheng, 56,
has been on trial for nearly a month in Federal District Court in Manhattan on
charges of immigrant smuggling, hostage taking and money laundering, among
others.

In a closing argument yesterday for the government, Leslie Brown, an assistant
United States attorney, told the jury that Ms. Cheng ran ''a wildly successful
smuggling business,'' at one point calling it a ''conglomerate built upon misery
and greed.'' That conglomerate began to collapse on June 6, 1993, prosecutors
say, when the Golden Venture, a tramp steamer that Ms. Cheng had helped to
finance, ran aground off the Rockaways, in Queens, packed with 289 immigrants,
10 of whom died trying to swim to shore.

During the trial, the government said that Ms. Cheng, who ran a
multimillion-dollar underground banking network that stretched from New York
throughout the Far East, entered the human smuggling trade in the mid-1980's.
Ms. Brown said the business began as a hands-on family enterprise in which Ms.
Cheng's sister made fake travel documents and her brother picked up immigrants
en route to the United States in Guatemala but increased in scope and
sophistication. By 1992, she said, ''Business was booming.''

It was then, Ms. Brown said, that Ms. Cheng reached out to members of the brutal
Fuk Ching gang in Chinatown to serve as her ''gang of armed thugs.'' She struck
a deal with the gang's leader, Guo Liang Qi, to ferry passengers from the ship
off the coast of Boston to New York, Ms. Brown said, even though Mr. Guo had
twice broken into her house and robbed her.

''That was the past,'' Ms. Brown quoted Ms. Cheng as saying when the deal was
struck. ''This is business.''

Within a year, the Golden Venture, packed with nearly 300 famished immigrants,
ran aground off the coast of Queens. In addition to the deaths, dozens of
immigrants suffered hypothermia and injuries leaping from the boat into the
frigid Atlantic.

Although Ms. Cheng fled the United States in 1994, prosecutors say she continued
to finance immigrant ships, possibly until she was arrested in Hong Kong in
2000. One of her later ventures went awry in 1998, they say, when a ship
capsized in bad weather off the coast of Guatemala and 14 people drowned.

Ms. Cheng's lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, admitted that his client ran ''an
illegal bank'' but adamantly denied that she was a human smuggler. ''Cheng Chui
Ping had nothing to do with the Golden Venture,'' Mr. Hochheiser said.

As proof of this, he pointed out that the ship's manifest of passengers and
snakeheads -- or smugglers -- did not include her name. He also said her
fingerprints were not found on a piece of paper the government claimed she had
once given to an accomplice.

Still, the thrust of Mr. Hochheiser's attacks on the government's case were
broadsides against the Fuk Ching gang itself, whose members he called a ''host
of murderers and perjurers and extortionists'' and ''inhuman, violent, lifetime
criminals.'' Later, he said they were not even human beings.

He said the gang members, many of whom testified for the prosecution at Ms.
Cheng's trial, were nothing more than opportunistic liars.

''It's not the words that count,'' he said. ''It is the quality and character of
the people who place those words on the record.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cheng Chui Ping is on trial in the Golden Venture smuggling
case. (Photo by F.B.I. via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Ties Immigration Bill To Military Appropriations

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15


The House on Tuesday tied a contentious immigration bill to a measure to provide
an additional $81.3 billion for military operations and foreign aid, potentially
complicating negotiations with the Senate on both issues.

Most of the money in the spending bill would go to Iraq and Afghanistan, and the
day's debate offered Republicans and Democrats a platform to debate foreign and
budgetary policy.

Several members criticized the Bush administration for seeking the money outside
the usual appropriations process even though many of the expenses were long
anticipated. Drawing particular criticism was a provision to spend $590 million
to build an embassy in Baghdad.

''I don't consider an embassy to be an emergency,'' said Representative Sue
Myrick, Republican of North Carolina.

But Representative Ray LaHood, Republican of Illinois, said, ''We need an
embassy there, and I cannot think of a dumber thing that we could do'' than to
block it.

House members are seeking to force discussion of the issue of border security in
the Senate, where Republicans are split over proposals for deporting political
asylum seekers and barring states from issuing drivers' licenses to illegal
immigrants. The House passed the immigration measure in February.

Bob Stevenson, the chief spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist,
said Republican leaders did not intend to let the immigration bill interfere
with passage of the military spending measure. But he said there would be
attempts to alter it.

''We'll try to move quickly on it,'' Mr. Stevenson said. ''Our concern,
obviously, is the supplemental and that the needed funds for our troops not get
too far bogged down.''

A spokeswoman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he
would work to block it. Mr. Kennedy and Senator John McCain, Republican of
Arizona, are working on their own legislation on immigration, an issue that is
set to take center stage again next week as President Bush meets with leaders
from Canada and Mexico.

The House ran through a variety of amendments associated with international
spending. Among other things, they approved $100 million for disaster relief and
refugee assistance in Africa.

A provision expected to receive heightened attention is $200 million in aid for
the Palestinians. The provision originally included a standard provision
allowing the president to spend the money as he deemed fit, including giving it
directly to the Palestinian Authority.

But after Mr. Bush submitted his supplemental request, some House members fought
for and won a restriction on how the administration could spend the money. The
version that emerged from the House Appropriations Committee bars sending it
directly to the Palestinians, instead requiring that it be funneled through
third parties like private organizations.

At the same time, lawmakers insisted that the administration conduct an audit of
the Palestinian Authority's finances before letting payments go through.

On Tuesday night, going even further, Representative Anthony Weiner, Democrat of
Brooklyn, introduced an amendment to strip all of the $200 million out of the
bill, a proposal devised to allow some members to show support for Israel by
objecting to the money for Palestinians. Mr. Weiner said millions of dollars in
past aid to the Palestinians had not advanced American interests or led to a
reduction in violence.

''Frankly, we've been throwing good money after bad with the way we've rushed in
with money every time there's a glimmer of hope on the horizon'' Mr. Weiner
said, referring to the Middle East.

Representative Joe Knollenberg, Republican of Michigan, said: ''We all know the
Palestinian Authority still needs a great deal of reform. We need to be careful
about how we provide the money to help the Palestinians.''

But some lawmakers objected to the measures in the bill as so severe that they
might prevent delivery of the money to the Palestinians when they need it most.

''The excessive conditions and limitations placed on this package may undermine
progress toward peace,'' Representative Lois Capps, Democrat of California, said
in a speech on the House floor. ''Of course we must secure transparency and
accountability. But the requirements in this legislation go far beyond what we
demanded in the Arafat era.''

Another critic of the amendment, Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of
Arizona, said, ''I can't think of a message that could send a worse message to
the Middle East.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Approves $32 Billion Security Budget

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


The House passed a nearly $32 billion budget on Tuesday for the Department of
Homeland Security that includes more than President Bush had requested to
curtail the flow of illegal immigrants and enhance efforts to find and deport
them.

But reflecting bipartisan frustration with the slow response of the department
to requests from Congress for progress reports, the House cut the Bush
administration's request for a number of major programs, including one that
would replace Coast Guard ships and planes. The legislation was approved 424 to
1, with the ''no'' vote coming from Representative Ron Paul, Republican of
Texas.

The department's budget for the 2006 fiscal year, which starts Oct. 1, still
requires Senate approval, and the administration has objected to a number of
provisions in the $31.9 billion bill, so it will most likely change a fair
amount before it becomes law.

But the version passed by the House calls for an overall increase in enacted
spending of about 4 percent, and $1.3 billion more than Mr. Bush requested.

''At a time when we are trimming funding for other domestic programs, homeland
security remains our top concern,'' said Representative Harold Rogers,
Republican of Kentucky and the lead author of the bill. ''The most important job
that Congress has is ensuring the safety of the American people, and this bill
reflects that priority.''

The increased spending on border patrol and immigration enforcement reflects the
rising frustration by members of Congress that the nation is not doing enough to
control the flow of illegal immigrants, a concern only heightened by recent
reports that Al Qaeda might try to use the porous borders to sneak operatives
into the country.

The bill, along with other recent action by Congress, would provide financing
for about 1,500 new border patrol officers and 570 new immigration enforcement
officers, as well as 3,870 additional beds in detention centers, according to
the House Appropriations Committee.

The department would also receive more money for equipment that could detect
radioactive materials being smuggled by terrorists, as well as extra financing
to examine cargo in foreign ports before it leaves for the United States,
expanding the program to about 50 ports worldwide.

Overall, the budget for Customs and Border Protection, a division of the
department, would climb to $6.9 billion, up about 9 percent, while the budget
for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, another division, would go to more than
$4 billion, up about 20 percent, according to the Appropriations Committee.

The bill does not include a proposal by the administration to increase aviation
security fees by $3 per passenger for a typical flight, raising $1.7 billion in
new fees. But it would still allocate more money for the Transportation Security
Administration, which oversees aviation security, among other things.

There is $468 million set aside for equipment to detect explosives at airports,
17 percent more than the current budget. But the bill calls for a penalty of
$100,000 a day if the department fails to triple the amount of cargo inspected
before it is loaded onto passenger aircraft.

That penalty is one of several punitive provisions in the bill.

The single biggest, by far, would cut the Coast Guard program for ship and plane
building by $466 million, down from the $966 million Mr. Bush had proposed,
because the Coast Guard did not lay out a revised 20-year spending plan. An
additional $20 million was withheld from the office of Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff until the department submits various reports Congress
has requested on the status of programs.

''I have consistently and repeatedly told the department that I would require
accountability and cooperation,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''It is a simple equation: no
information equals no money.''

Brian Roehrkasse, a department spokesman, said the department was trying to
comply with the request for status reports.

''We have requested that Congress help us prioritize the over 260 different
reports required by the department from last year's appropriation process,'' Mr.
Roehrkasse said.

The House also moved Tuesday to eliminate $100,000 set aside for a Hollywood
consultant, the actress Bobbie Faye Ferguson, who was hired last year to advise
film and television makers who intend to portray the agency or its employees.

In another amendment, $100 million was added to the bill to help states cover
the cost of requirements associated with tougher federal standards related to
the issuance of driver's licenses.

Democratic leaders said that despite the overwhelming vote, they remain
dissatisfied with parts of the bill, including a reduction in grants to local
fire departments and in those for state and local governments to help them
prepare for a future attack.

The debate is continuing in Congress over how these grants would be distributed
-- based either largely on formulas that require distribution in all states or a
determination by the department about which cities are at the highest risk of
attack.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Powell, in Mexico, Pledges Migrant Reform

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 9


Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Tom Ridge, the secretary of homeland
security, assured Mexican officials on Tuesday that President Bush would pursue
a temporary worker program that could free millions of migrants living illegally
in the United States from legal limbo.

But they injected a note of caution, saying that Congress must be persuaded to
move forward with the issue, which is politically volatile.

''The president is committed to making this a high priority in his second
term,'' Mr. Powell said at a news conference with Luis Ernesto Derbez, the
foreign minister of Mexico.

''At the same time we don't want to overpromise,'' Mr. Powell added. He said
that early next year, ''we'll make an assessment with the new Congress of the
pace at which we can proceed with temporary worker programs.''

At a separate news conference here, Mr. Ridge said that in the past,
disagreements in Congress had raised the threat of a stalemate on the issue.

''We are prepared to engage if Congress is prepared to engage,'' Mr. Ridge said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Major Immigration Surgery

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 448 words


The arrival last week of a sweeping, bipartisan immigration proposal in Congress
brought forth the usual conflict between those who want a solution and those who
just want an emotional issue to howl about. But this latest and most
comprehensive package has already started earning support from Republicans and
Democrats, business groups and unions, and several key Hispanic organizations.
President Bush, who has been promising action on immigration for years, should
quickly join them.

The long-awaited legislation comes from Senators John McCain and Edward Kennedy
and Representatives Jeff Flake and Jim Kolbe, both Republicans from Arizona, and
Luis Gutierrez, a Democrat from Illinois. Senator McCain said as he introduced
the bill that it embraced the goals set down by Mr. Bush: making the borders
more secure, filling jobs no American will take and finding a route to legality
for workers who are already here illegally.

It is worth noting that three of the prime movers on this effort are from
Arizona, a border state. They know firsthand about the hundreds who die each
year trying to cross the desert from Mexico and about the many locals who are
frantic about being overrun in this tragic human stampede.

Given the political tides, Senator McCain and others have focused on how their
package could improve security at the borders. More than a million undocumented
people are caught trying to cross into the country each year. Many make it: an
estimated 11 million people are in the country illegally.

The goal is to get as many of these workers as possible to come out of their
shadowy world. If that happened as planned, the strained government agencies
that now deal with border issues could focus on immigrants with more sinister
motives than the need for better wages.

At the center of this bill is a new temporary visa program that would allow
foreign workers to fill jobs that no Americans will take. Undocumented
immigrants already in the country would be eligible for these visas, which could
last up to six years. To apply for permanent status, these workers would have to
clear a number of hurdles, including security checks and requirements to pay
back taxes and fines of $2,000 or more, and be proficient in English. Even then,
they would go to the back of the immigration line. That process should be
difficult enough to keep this from being an amnesty program, but not be so
daunting that nobody would bother to try.

As Congressman Kolbe put it last week, this legislation ''doesn't try to solve
the hemorrhaging immigration problem with simply a Band-Aid. This is major
surgery.'' The patient is definitely ready.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Making Immigration Work

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 399 words


For five years, President Bush has said that he really wants to reform
immigration, but when the Senate finally took up the issue last week, the White
House went missing. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Labor
Secretary Elaine Chao backed out of the hearing at the last minute, a gap that
was noted with understandable irritation by Senator Arlen Specter, chairman of
the Judiciary Committee.

With an estimated 11 million people in the country illegally, immigration is too
big for the White House to ignore. If there is debate within the Bush
administration about where immigration reform should go, there are several
proposals that deserve consideration.

The best comprehensive bill so far comes from Senators John McCain, Republican
of Arizona, and Edward Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, among others. The
bill finds ways for the nation to deal with border security, a large underground
society and the need for more unskilled labor in this country. It would set up a
guest worker program and begin the process of making the illegal immigrants
legal, by making participants pay back taxes and fines, then go to the end of
the line to get a green card.

Two Republican senators, Jon Kyl of Arizona and John Cornyn of Texas, propose
drastically beefing up border patrol. This would be a good thing if the proposal
also offered a more realistic solution to the illegal population. It does not.
Those in the country illegally would have to return home to apply for a green
card -- an invitation, it would seem, for most of them to stay hidden.

As Washington circles this tough issue, problems with immigration only grow.
Almost 500,000 immigrants a year pour over the border to take backbreaking
unskilled jobs that Americans don't want. The United States offers about one
legal visa for every 100 workers who sneak into the country. But without that
work force -- over 4 percent of the country's workers by some estimates -- the
economy would sour. So we are left with an inhumane system, with jobs available
to whoever can break into the country to get them.

Tamar Jacoby of the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research summed up the goal
at the Senate hearing last week: ''to remain a nation of immigrants and a nation
of laws.'' Mr. Specter has finally started the hard work required to reach that
goal. Now the White House needs to put in some thought and muscle as well.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Fair Policy On Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 204 words



To the Editor:

Your Aug. 1 editorial ''Making Immigration Work'' seeks a more ''realistic''
solution to our country's immigration problem, implying that requiring
undocumented aliens to return home before being able to obtain their green cards
is untenable and unfair. I disagree.

As an immigration attorney, I fully understand the problems inherent in living
an undocumented life in the United States. The simple amenities that citizens
take for granted are beyond the reach of this shadow society. And yet we need to
recognize that the vast majority of these individuals entered our country
without permission, even though this is probably the only illegal act they ever
committed.

We cannot afford another amnesty like the one that occurred almost 20 years ago,
wreaking havoc on an already overburdened system. We need a law that promises
qualified applicants a permanent visa in a reasonable period of time, as long as
they agree to return home and complete processing at their local consulates.
This is a truly fair solution, one that takes into consideration the plight of
the immigrants while at the same time fostering respect for the rule of law in
their adopted country.

Christine Flowers
Philadelphia, Aug. 2, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citing Border Violence, 2 States Declare a Crisis

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Ginger Thompson contributed reporting from Mexico
City for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1158 words

DATELINE: DEMING, N.M., Aug. 16


Citing a surge of smuggling and violence along the border, the governors of
Arizona and New Mexico have issued state of emergency declarations in recent
days, faulting the American and Mexican authorities and freeing up federal and
state money to strengthen local law enforcement efforts.

''Both federal governments let us down -- there doesn't seem to be any sense of
urgency,'' Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat seeking re-election next
year, said in a telephone interview Tuesday, a day after declaring a state of
emergency in four border counties. Ms. Napolitano said that ''ranchers are at
their wits' end'' with smuggled immigrants who damage their property and
livestock.

Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat who is also seeking re-election
and who may make a bid for the White House in 2008, issued an emergency
declaration on Friday, after touring this turbulent border region where a police
chief reported being shot at last week.

''This is an act of desperation,'' Mr. Richardson said in a separate phone
interview, adding that border problems had gone beyond illegal immigration to
violent crime. He said the action would provide resources ''until Congress and
the feds deal with this issue,'' but added, ''it is not a political move -- I
never mentioned the Bush administration.''

The actions by the two states followed a series of violent episodes, including
the killing of a New Mexico woman who was shot in the head by a Mexican police
officer outside Ciudad Juarez on July 30 and the crash of a Hummer, which was
trying to outrun Border Patrol agents, that killed four illegal immigrants in
March. Chief Clare May of the three-member police department in Columbus, N.M.,
said that on Aug. 9, two bullets whizzed over his head while he was checking out
abandoned cars.

Arizona remains the busiest illegal gateway along the Southwest border, and
scores of illegal immigrants are found dead of exposure in its deserts each
year.

The two governors said their actions would make available $1.75 million in New
Mexico and $1.5 million in Arizona for extra sheriff's deputies and other
officers, and for overtime costs and more equipment. No federal approval is
required.

Luis Barker, deputy chief of the Border Patrol, interviewed by phone during a
visit to El Paso on Tuesday, said of the states' actions, ''I don't think it
should be taken as criticism.'' Mr. Barker said that federal agents were working
closely with their state counterparts and that arrests were down in Arizona,
signifying successes. ''If there is coordination,'' he said, ''I would think it
would be very helpful.''

In Mexico on Tuesday, President Vicente Fox, visiting the state of Sonora across
the border from Arizona, urged United States officials to do more than sound
alarms about the crime plaguing both sides of the border and to work with
Mexican authorities on solutions. Mr. Fox called the crime problem a ''shared
responsibility for both governments.''

''Instead of each of us working on our own sides,'' he said, ''we must work
together. That's the only way to win.''

''There is organized crime here,'' Mr. Fox said, ''and there is organized crime
there. On this side and that side, there is drug consumption. The only solution
is to work together.''

Geronimo Gutierrez, an under secretary in the Foreign Ministry, was meeting with
Bush administration officials in Washington and reiterating Mexico's commitment
to a ''safe and prosperous border.''

''There's a real perception in the United States about internal security,'' Mr.
Gutierrez said. ''But people here are also underestimating what both federal
governments are doing to fight crime on the border.

''There is the perception that the border is more dangerous now than before
Sept. 11,'' he added, ''but the reality is that there are many efforts to
protect the border that did not exist before. The cooperation between our
countries is unprecedented.''

A day after Mr. Richardson's declaration, officials in the Mexican state of
Chihuahua responded sympathetically and pledged closer cooperation. ''We
understand the concern of the New Mexican governor with defending the rights of
his citizens, and we will offer all the support we can to continue our good
relationship with our northern neighbor,'' the government said in a statement.

Mr. Richardson said that he was ''acting out of frustration'' but that his
emergency declaration should not be taken as criticism of the Border Patrol.
''I'm criticizing the entire federal structure on immigration,'' he said. ''The
Border Patrol is doing a good job.''

Mr. Barker, of the Border Patrol, said the agency, part of the Department of
Homeland Security, had added 305 agents since last October to its 12 stations
from West Texas and El Paso to the Arizona border, bringing the force there to
1,226. ''It's a work in progress,'' he said.

Allen Weh, chairman of the New Mexico Republican Party, said in a telephone
interview on Tuesday that the party commended Mr. Richardson ''for coming around
to the concerns we've had for a long time.''

But Mr. Weh, a retired colonel who served in Iraq and Vietnam, said, ''Of course
there's political motives in the governor's actions.'' He said Mr. Richardson
was concerned with trying to hold onto his traditional Democratic base ''and
position himself in the center.''

Mr. Richardson said he was motivated solely by concerns for public safety. He
said he was not worried about alienating Hispanics, one of his prime
constituencies. ''I have the most migrant-friendly state,'' he said, citing a
policy of issuing driver's licenses without regard to immigration status.

As for an eye on the White House, he said: ''I am running for re-election as
governor of New Mexico. I have enough problems.''

In Arizona, Republicans also suggested that Ms. Napolitano's motives might be
political.

''The governor clearly is very good at reading polls,'' State Representative
Russell Pearce said, according to The Arizona Republic. ''It's a start, but much
more has to be done.''

In July, Ms. Napolitano organized a meeting of about 100 law enforcement
supervisors to discuss border smuggling and violence. Last week she wrote to
Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, saying she was ''increasingly
disappointed by red tape'' at the department.

Ms. Napolitano said she had seen no improvement in border security. ''I will do
anything I have to to get Washington's attention to this matter,'' she said.

In Texas, Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican running for re-election next year, was
not currently considering a state of emergency, said a spokesman, Robert Black.
''The governor has said that we'll continue to make the case that there can be
no homeland security without border security, and the federal government needs
to make a greater commitment both in resources and manpower along the
Texas-Mexico border.''

But Mr. Black said nothing had been ruled out.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A dump truck carrying passengers on Tuesday in Palomas, on the
Mexico side of the border, drove away from United States border patrol agents.
(Photo by David Bowser for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 20, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

United States of Emergency

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 492 words


Anyone who has been to the border areas in Arizona and New Mexico knows about
some of the horrible things that are happening at America's edge. The news is so
alarming and the hope for relief from Washington is so dim that the governors of
New Mexico and Arizona have finally declared states of emergency in those areas.
It is as if those counties bordering on Mexico had been hit by floods or
hurricanes or any other natural disaster, except that this is not a natural
disaster. The scenes of death, drug smuggling, kidnapping and more are manmade,
a security emergency that should be fixed, soon, by politicians in Washington
and Mexico City.

Both governors, Bill Richardson in New Mexico and Janet Napolitano in Arizona,
are Democrats -- a fact that has led to some suggestions that they are using
this issue to grandstand or to embarrass the Bush administration. But these are
the people on the front lines. They are pushing for the security that comes with
humane and realistic immigration reform. Anything that sends a flare from the
borderlands up to Congress is worth the effort.

Short term, the administration simply has to beef up its border surveillance and
control. Although patrols have increased and equipment is more sophisticated,
other border areas have been closed off in California and Texas, making New
Mexico and Arizona the preferred routes for thousands of illegal immigrants over
the last few years. Many are simply aiming north to get jobs so they can feed
their families back in Mexico. But too many are interested in shadier pursuits.

Almost everybody who thinks hard about the immigration problem knows that the
solution is not simply to build a better fence. That won't work as long as there
are low-level jobs that need doing and no American citizens willing to do them.
Throwing as many as 11 million illegal immigrants out of the country is simply
not going to happen.

At present, Congress has two important bills covering reform. One comes from two
Republicans, Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona and Senator John Cornyn of Texas. The
Kyl-Cornyn bill is heavy on security -- which would be a good thing as long as
it included a true guest worker program, but so far, it does not. The other
bill, from Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator Edward Kennedy of
Massachusetts, has a far better guest worker program, but not as much security.
It's possible to see a way to combine these bills to make an immigration system
that's better for everybody.

President Bush has been promising immigration reform since he took office, and
he promised once again this week that immigration would be a top priority.
Through all these years, Mr. Bush, as a Texan, has made it clear that he
understands this complex problem. But some of those in his party prefer to
inflame the issue with anti-immigrant tirades -- an embarrassment as old as
America itself. The president will have to tame his own party before we can all
move forward.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Who Led A Mosque Is Convicted Of Visa Fraud

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 480 words


A man who ran a makeshift mosque in the basement of his Brooklyn greeting-card
store has been convicted of visa fraud in federal court for helping more than
200 illegal immigrants falsely obtain visas as religious workers.

The man, Muhammad Khalil, 63, a naturalized American born in Pakistan, was the
self-appointed imam of the Dar Ehya Essunnah mosque on Ditmas Avenue in
Kensington, prosecutors said yesterday in announcing the conviction. He earned
more than $600,000 collecting fees from the immigrants for fraudulent documents
and other support he provided for their visa applications, they said.

Prosecutors had originally described Mr. Khalil as an admirer of Osama bin Laden
and suggested there was a link to terrorism in the case. But in response to
challenges by Mr. Khalil's defense, the prosecutors dropped any mention of
terrorism during the three-week trial, which ended late Tuesday in Federal
District Court in Manhattan.

Federal agents said they stumbled across Mr. Khalil's visa business in the
detention of Muslim men in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks. At the time of
his arrest in February 2003, prosecutors said they had a secret recording of Mr.
Khalil describing himself as ''the same'' as Mr. bin Laden and saying he hoped
there would be another attack in the United States soon. In the end, however,
they never offered the tape in court.

Prosecutors showed in court that Mr. Khalil presented false documents to the
immigration and Social Security authorities to obtain Social Security cards for
the immigrants and to make it appear that they would be employed at his mosque.
He also orchestrated a complex scheme to issue the immigrants fake paychecks and
payroll tax forms and oblige them to file income tax returns, to make it appear
the mosque was attending to thousands of Brooklyn faithful.

According to immigration regulations, workers who obtain religious visas cannot
do any form of secular work.

In the course of a three-year investigation by the Department of Homeland
Security, Mr. Khalil said he would arrange a religious worker visa for a
cooperating witness from the government in exchange for $7,000, including
providing fake documents certifying the witness's religious education in
Pakistan.

Mr. Khalil's lawyer, Roger Stavis, showed examples of weddings and other
religious services that his client had performed to contest the prosecutor's
contention that the mosque was not legitimate.

Mr. Khalil was convicted on all eight counts of fraud and conspiracy, and faces
up to 15 years in prison. He will be sentenced on Jan. 18. His lawyer said he
would appeal. Three other defendants pleaded guilty earlier, and charges are
pending against Mr. Khalil's son, Asim.

''A potentially serious vulnerability to our homeland has been closed,'' said
Martin Ficke, Homeland Security special agent in New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Court Orders Immigration Document Disclosed

BYLINE: By Julia Preston (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 91 words


A federal judge ordered the Justice Department to release by Oct. 12 a document
that describes its legal rationale for a policy shift two years ago, when it
authorized state law enforcement officers to arrest illegal immigrants suspected
in national security cases. The ruling by Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal
District Court in Manhattan came in a freedom of information suit brought by the
American Civil Liberties Union and two other groups, which contend that state
authorities should not enforce federal immigration laws.   Julia Preston (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hiding the Refugee Problem Offshore

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 460 words


The harrowing scenes we've seen recently of desperate African families adrift on
rusting boats in the Mediterranean point to the urgent need for Europe to settle
on a common policy for handling the asylum seekers, refugees and illegal
immigrants who risk everything to escape their wretched homelands. This global
problem requires more than the old answer of shoving the ones who make it past
the borders into a shadowy existence, and warehousing the rest.

Germany and Italy have called for setting up processing centers in North African
countries like Libya, Tunisia and Morocco to screen prospective refugees from
Africa, the Middle East and Asia. This troubling proposal is driven in part by a
rising populist backlash against asylum seekers in these two countries. Without
any clear understanding on how these camps would function -- especially in
countries not known for their protection of human rights, and in the absence of
a common European policy on refugees -- this is a bad idea. This week, it
encountered firm resistance from France and Spain, whose new center-left
government has been far more welcoming toward all forms of immigration than its
conservative predecessor. A similar suggestion recently came from the interior
ministers from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Austria and Slovakia. They expressed
concern about Chechen and other refugees and proposed setting up transit camps
in Ukraine. Understandably, the Ukrainian government bridled at the suggestion,
not least because nobody sought its opinion.

It's obvious that those who enter Europe illegally pose a serious problem, as
they do in the United States. Many of them live outside the legal and social
framework of the country they're in. But this problem can't be solved by
outsourcing it.

Refugees who end up in foreign transit camps are likely to face long stretches
of what is effectively detention, quite possibly in nasty conditions. Libya, in
particular, has an appalling record of forcibly sending asylum seekers back to
countries like Eritrea and Sudan, where they face certain persecution.

It's possible that properly designed, managed and monitored transit centers
could be part of an eventual solution. But the more urgent task is for Europe to
agree on a common asylum policy, which should recognize that asylum seekers have
the right to full protection until their cases have been heard.

The European Union should also streamline legal immigration procedures. That
could help offset the looming labor shortages and pension crises that are
otherwise likely to result from the sharp fall in birthrates in several of
Europe's largest economies. Until these policies are in place, transit camps are
just a place to hide the problem.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 23, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Checkpoint Near Canada Called Unsafe

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Oct. 22


Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, federal border patrol agents have been
stepping up their use of checkpoints on highways near the country's borders to
inspect vehicles for illegal immigrants, narcotics, terrorists and terrorist
weapons.

But on Interstate 87 north of here there have been two major crashes on the
southbound approach to one of those checkpoints, including a pileup on Sept. 19,
which killed four people as drivers failed to slow down for the lines of stopped
cars.

After reviewing those crashes, the National Transportation Safety Board issued
an urgent recommendation Thursday saying that the warning signs and flashing
lights posted along the approach to the immigration checkpoint at North Hudson,
N.Y., in Essex County, about 75 miles south of the Canadian border, gave either
too little specific information for drivers to know what to do or a dizzying
array of directions that could be confusing.

To avoid future accidents, the safety board has urged that the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials develop new guidelines
to help law enforcement agencies set up safer checkpoints. There are now scores
of such checkpoints. Though the specific number of crashes near the checkpoints
was not immediately available, the safety board also cited a fatal accident last
year near one in Texas.

While the safety board stressed that the causes of the two recent crashes along
I-87 -- also known as the Adirondack Northway -- were still under investigation,
the warning signs used by the United States Border Patrol, in conjunction with
transportation officials of the Pataki administration, were ''not effective''
when evaluated against federal criteria.

''We know that these checkpoints are going to continue; it's just the nature of
the environment of the day, so to speak, with terrorists, 9/11 and the work that
the Department of Homeland Security is trying to do in stopping these people,''
said Joseph Osterman, the director of the Office of Highway Safety for the
national safety board, on Friday. ''But we want to make sure that we are not
harming the highway population while we are trying to interdict terrorists.''

The safety board's findings came after an accident about 800 feet north of the
North Hudson checkpoint last month in which a tractor-trailer crashed on the
approach to a line of vehicles waiting at the checkpoint on the Adirondack
Northway between Exits 29 and 30.

A 5-year-old girl, Jonelle Adams, and her mother, Natalie, and another adult,
all of Uniondale, N.Y., were killed when their car was pushed under a pickup
truck and burst into flames. The tractor-trailer then skidded, hitting another
tractor-trailer and another pickup, which was towing a camper. The driver of the
second pickup, Walter J. Giveans, 53, of Otisville, N.Y., was also killed.

''These checks and things are creating a lot of problems -- there is no two ways
about it -- and I lost a brother and a good friend,'' George B. Giveans, 55,
Walter's brother, said Friday.

When asked what she thought of the highway deaths, Euris Adams, who lost her
daughter and granddaughter in the Sept. 19 crash, said she was buoyed by the
prospect that things might get fixed.

''I think they should fix it because it could happen again,'' Ms. Adams said
Friday. ''It should be studied very hard.''

The earlier crash, on Feb. 22, occurred when a tour bus carrying 47 passengers
struck the back of a tractor-trailer about 900 feet north of the border patrol
checkpoint at North Hudson and pushed the tractor-trailer into a sport utility
vehicle, which was in turn pushed into a car. In that crash, more than 50 people
were injured.

A spokesman for the state police, Lt. Glenn Miner, said the police report
indicated that the February bus accident had been caused by driver inattention
and unsafe speed while the September crash had been caused by the driver's
disregard of the traffic signs and unsafe speed. In the fatal crash, the driver
of the tractor-trailer that hit the passenger car was charged criminally,
officials said. Lieutenant Miner said there had also been three minor accidents,
with no injuries, near the North Hudson checkpoint, the only one of its kind in
the state since December.

Currently there are no national standards for how to set up law enforcement
checkpoints, the safety board found. Standards for work zones or accidents,
however, require that traffic control devices fulfill a need, command attention,
convey a clear, simple meaning, command respect from drivers and give adequate
time for proper response. The safety board recommended that new guidelines be
specifically tailored for law enforcement checkpoints.

Shane M. Artim, a spokesman for the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, said the group understood the safety board's concerns
and was working with federal highway officials to prepare an official response.
''We're cooperating,'' he said.

Ron Colburn, the senior associate chief of the border patrol, said officials at
his agency would work closely with highway engineers so that law enforcement
could do its job safely and cause the least disruption to travelers.

''There has to be a range of standards because it is never one size fits all,
because we have over 60 checkpoint locations around the nation, and they range
from small two-way routes that lead away from the international border on up to
very large multi-state interstates,'' Mr. Colburn said.

He said that not all 60 checkpoints were operating at the same time and added
that he did not have a database immediately available to count the number of
accidents at those places. He said, however, that accidents did occasionally
happen.

''But there have been no fatal accidents on Interstate 87, in any way linked to
a border patrol checkpoint, in its history, until this one,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the border patrol checkpoint yesterday on the Adirondack
Northway in North Hudson, N.Y. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York
Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Measure Taps Frustrations in Arizona

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1052 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Oct. 22


On the face of it, the issue before Arizona voters on Election Day --
Proposition 200 -- seems straightforward enough. It would require proof of
citizenship when registering to vote and would deny illegal immigrants public
benefits that are not federally mandated. It is, supporters say, a reaffirmation
of laws already on the books.

But should the measure pass on Nov. 2 -- and polls show it is likely to -- its
opponents believe it will unleash a tempest. The measure contains language, for
example, that makes it a crime for public employees not to report fraud
committed by illegal immigrants to the authorities.

Opponents envision a leviathan bureaucracy and a litany of lawsuits, and raise
concerns about privacy. Will residents be required to carry citizenship
documents? Firefighters wonder if they will have to check immigration status
when assisting in a hit-and-run accident. Would welfare workers who do not turn
in someone suspected of being an illegal immigrant really be fined $750 and
sentenced to four months in jail, as the measure stipulates? Librarians ask if
they will go to jail for issuing library cards. People with brown skin fear a
witch hunt.

Those fears are unfounded, says Kathy McKee, the chairwoman and director of the
group sponsoring Proposition 200, Protect Arizona Now.

''This is simply about order,'' said Ms. McKee, who describes herself as a
Quaker Sunday school teacher, practicing Buddhist and Ralph Nader supporter.

''This is about protecting the voting process and prohibiting welfare fraud.
Nothing more, nothing less,'' she said.

Richard M. Romley, the Maricopa County attorney, said the immigration problem
was a federal issue and would not be solved by what he described as a leaky,
poorly written initiative.

''I know we have a problem, but sometimes the solution is worse than the
problem,'' said Mr. Romley, a Republican. ''The frustrations of the citizens are
legitimate, and we have to have a legitimate answer. This isn't it.''

Passage of the measure could also have unintended political consequences. A
similar measure in California, Proposition 187, passed 10 years ago with the
support of Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican. Republican support for the measure
was seen as a betrayal to Latinos and pushed their swelling numbers into
Democratic arms. Today, except for the popular recall governor, Arnold
Schwarzenegger, Republicans hold no statewide office in California. Proposition
187 was eventually struck down.

No major officials in Arizona have expressed support for Proposition 200.

With crackdowns along the borders of California and Texas in recent years,
Arizona has become the nexus of a billion-dollar human smuggling industry and a
place of spectacular, savage crimes.

The smuggling business has become so lucrative that immigrants are being treated
as commodities, increasingly kidnapped, tortured or killed when their families
cannot pay.

Five people were killed on Oct. 16 in the southeastern part of the state after a
smuggler trying to elude the police flipped a stolen pickup packed with 17
illegal immigrants, leading to a multicar pileup.

But Proposition 200 would not prevent illegal immigrants from being treated in
emergency rooms because federal law mandates emergency care for anyone who needs
it. Undocumented children would still be required to attend school and receive
vaccinations.

And to complicate matters, opponents filed a lawsuit on Friday in state Superior
Court claiming that the petitions people signed originally read that proof of
citizenship would be required to receive ''public welfare benefits.'' The
ballot, however, states that noncitizens would be denied ''public benefits, ''
leaving out the word ''welfare.'' A judge is expected to rule Wednesday on
whether the ballot is invalid.

The measure could also make life difficult for residents, costing time in long
lines and millions of dollars to institute a system whereby citizens can be
identified, according to an analysis by the Arizona governor's office.

In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, about 600,000 people, mostly Mexicans,
were apprehended along the Arizona border. The illegal immigrant population in
Arizona has ballooned to an estimated 350,000, a four-fold increase over the
past 15 years. The signs of strain are everywhere: emergency rooms closing,
overcrowded schools, families living in garages, homes converted to hiding
places and gangland-style crime.

Some political experts say the lack of discussion of immigration issues among
the presidential candidates has driven public support for Proposition 200, which
is officially known as the Arizona Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act.

Even with a bombardment of anti-Proposition 200 advertising featuring the
popular Senator John McCain, supporters still outnumber opponents by 42 percent
to 29 percent, according to a recent poll by Northern Arizona University.

''We need to stop illegal immigration,'' said Nicholas J. Zendelbach, a resident
of an affluent Scottsdale neighborhood who appeared on the national news earlier
this year when about 160 illegal immigrants were found in squalid conditions in
the house next to his.

''It's causing unrest in the American population,'' Mr. Zendelbach said of
illegal immigration. ''It's too much, too fast. You have to understand people's
frustration.''

Emilia Banuelos, a Phoenix immigration lawyer active in opposing the
proposition, says the measure misses the point about who immigrants are and what
they do, and only sends a message that they are no longer welcome.

''There's no doubt that we need change in our immigration policy, but this isn't
it,'' Ms. Banuelos said. ''The immigrants are the children in the schools, they
are in our stores, they contribute in every aspect of our lives.''

At a work center on the north side of Phoenix where illegal immigrants as well
as citizens wait for daily employment, the attitude was less defiant and more
confused.

''If the law passes does this mean that if a man gets sick, he waits until he
nearly dies until he is helped? It's not human,'' said Manuel Zarate Padilla,
37, from Guadalajara, Mexico.

''I understand the feelings of people here,'' Mr. Padilla said. ''I wouldn't
like 2,000 gringos standing at the corner of my town. But law or no law, people
will come. The work is here.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laborers at a work center in Phoenix. ''Law or no law, people
will come. The work is here,'' says a worker from Guadalajara, Mexico.
 Kathy McKee, leader of the group supporting Proposition 200. (Photographs by
Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

EFFORT TO DROP BALLOT INITIATIVE FAILS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN BRIEFING: THE STATES; Pg.
22

LENGTH: 82 words


An Arizona judge dismissed a lawsuit that sought to drop a ballot initiative
that would restrict the services the government provides to illegal immigrants.
The judge, Margaret H. Downie of Maricopa County Superior Court, said the effort
to kill the initiative, called Proposition 200, came too late. Opponents of the
measure filed the lawsuit on Oct. 22, saying that thousands of petition
signatures were attached to a version of the initiative that differed from what
ended up on the ballot.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 8, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico to Press U.S. on Stalled Migrant Plan

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 7


In meetings with the United States this week, Mexico will urge the Bush
administration to pay more attention to Latin America in its second term and to
move forward on proposals that would give legal status to millions of illegal
migrants.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the secretary of homeland security, Tom
Ridge, will travel to Mexico on Monday for meetings of the United States-Mexico
Binational Commission. It will be Mr. Powell's first foreign trip since
President Bush's re-election last week. The commission is scheduled to discuss a
range of issues, including trade, border security and the fight against drug
trafficking. Migration tops Mexico's agenda.

Geronimo Gutierrez, the under secretary for North America in Mexico's Foreign
Ministry, said in a telephone interview that Mexico had cooperated with the
United States in its efforts to prevent terrorism and curb drug trafficking and
on programs to stop the smuggling of migrants across the border. He suggested
that it was time for the United States to reciprocate that spirit of
cooperation.

''For us, this meeting represents an opportunity to accelerate the pace of the
bilateral agenda, especially migration,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''It's time for
the United States to establish new mechanisms to deal with migration.''

Mr. Bush, whose election was bolstered by increasing support from Hispanic
voters, has promised sweeping immigration changes since the beginning of his
first term, when he proclaimed Mexico one of the United States' most important
allies. Last January, Mr. Bush sent Congress a proposal that would give
temporary work permits to illegal migrants working in the United States.

Authorities estimate there are eight million illegal immigrants in the United
States, more than half of them Mexican. Because of the estimated $14 billion
that Mexicans in the United States sent home last year -- making remittances the
country's second most important source of income after oil -- those immigrants
are a powerful constituency for Mexico's president, Vicente Fox. He has made
immigration change his chief foreign policy priority.

The United States, however, has so far failed to deliver on its promises for
immigration change. After the Sept. 11 attacks, the Bush administration set
aside the migration agenda to focus on the effort to prevent terrorism, and
later on the invasion of Iraq. But Mr. Bush promised that if he was re-elected,
he would get migration talks back on track and push for his guest-worker
proposal, which has drawn criticism from Republicans and Democrats.

At the meeting of the United States-Mexico Binational Commission, Mexico intends
to challenge the Bush administration to do just that.

Mr. Fox raised the issue of migration in a congratulatory telephone call to Mr.
Bush last week.

''What I discussed with President Bush is the fact that the next years represent
a window of opportunity, given that neither of our countries will have
elections,'' Mr. Fox told reporters at a meeting among Latin American leaders
last week. ''Relations with the United States are excellent, deep, friendly,
productive, and we have to be optimistic that we will take advantage of this
one-year window of opportunity we have.''

Optimism, however, has faded across Latin America since the beginning of Mr.
Bush's first term. The region has tilted decidedly left, moving away from the
United States' foreign policies and free market changes. In Ecuador, Brazil,
Venezuela, Chile and Uruguay, voters frustrated by vast disparities between the
rich and poor, soaring crime, systematic corruption and impunity have turned out
to support leftist leaders whose campaigns questioned -- and in some cases
flatly rejected -- the thinking from Washington and Wall Street.

Mr. Bush's popularity across the region dropped significantly after the invasion
of Iraq. Mexico was one of the decisive votes against the invasion at the United
Nations Security Council. Only the Dominican Republic, El Salvador and Honduras
have sent troops to Iraq.

But in a meeting among 19 Latin American leaders last week, most expressed an
interest in strengthening relations with Washington. Political analysts also
have said that Mr. Bush's victory is the best hope for real progress on a range
of pending negotiations, including the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas and
migration changes. A second-term president, whose party controls Congress, they
contend, will be in a better position to push through changes than John Kerry
would have been.

''I think this is the better option for Mexico and Latin America,'' said Isabel
Studer, of the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences, a research group. ''If
Kerry would have been elected with a Republican Congress, we would have had four
years of paralysis. Bush will have more political leverage to push for issues
that are important to us.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two men at the border in Tijuana, Mexico, waiting for nightfall
to try to cross illegally into the United States. (Photo by Dario
Lopez-Mills/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Reverse Their Trek as American Dreams Fade

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Back Home in Ireland, Greener
Pastures; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words


They arrived as the New Irish in the 1980's and 90's, thousands drawn to a New
York that still glittered in family lore as a place where hard work could bring
prosperity.

But the glitter began to dim along with the economy and the government's
attitude toward illegal immigrants. Now they are streaming back to Ireland at
such a clip that in the neighborhoods they regreened in Queens, Yonkers and the
Bronx, once-packed pubs stand half-empty and apartment vacancies go begging.

Some immigrants, longtime illegal residents losing hope for legal status, say
they are being driven out by new security crackdowns that make it harder for
those without a valid Social Security number to drive, work or plan a future in
the United States.

Others, already naturalized citizens, say the price in toil for health care and
education was too high, and hope for a less-exhausting life in a prosperous
Ireland.

''It's the complete reversal of the American dream,'' said Adrian Flannelly,
chairman of the Irish Radio Network in New York, who has served on an Irish
government task force on returnees. The exodus from the city, he said, signals a
historic shift in a relationship that is part of the city's backbone, inscribed
in the subways and bridges built by Irish immigrant labor in past centuries.

Michael and Catroina Condon, both naturalized American citizens who spent 19 and
11 years in New York, respectively, say Ireland's style of prosperity promises a
better life for their children. After the birth of their first baby, they said,
they rebelled against the toll of seven-day workweeks to pay rising costs in a
sluggish American economy.

''It's longer hours, less money, and a lot of the time you see people working
for their wage just to pay their rent, to pay their health insurance,'' said Ms.
Condon, 31, who was a corporate secretary in Manhattan before returning in
September to Mullingar, in County Westmeath. Her husband, a carpenter, is
starting his own business, and she envisions a wedding-planning enterprise.

The exodus is hard to quantify, but unmistakable, according to observers in the
travel agencies, real estate offices, moving companies and pubs that cater to
Irish New Yorkers in the Bronx and Queens. Christina McElwaine, a spokeswoman
for the Irish Consulate in New York, said the reversal seemed unprecedented in
scale.

Some Irish immigrants have always gone back home, of course, and in 2002, after
several years of strong economic growth and declining emigration, Ireland's
census recorded 26,000 more Irish who returned than left.

It was one of the largest inflows ever in a country that had hemorrhaged its
population for most of three centuries, and lost 23,000 as recently as 1990.

But the Irish departures reached critical mass in New York last summer, and were
echoed in the last two years in Boston and Philadelphia. ''If this trend
continues, it will be a very rare commodity to hear an Irish accent in this
country,'' said Tom Conaghan, director of Philadelphia's Irish Immigration and
Pastoral Center.

The surge surprised even Danny Moloney, director of Liffey Van Lines, which had
to keep its container loading dock in upper Manhattan open 24 hours a day to
meet the demand from families shipping their household goods back to Ireland
before school began.

''Our business has tripled in the past year,'' he said. ''It's all people that
are going home to Ireland.'' Aine Cullen, a waitress at Eileen's Country Kitchen
on McLean Avenue in Yonkers, followed six of her brothers when she migrated to
New York seven years ago at 21. Now, most of her family has moved back.

''Everybody's leaving and nobody's coming over anymore,'' Ms. Cullen said,
ticking off colleagues, friends and relatives who packed up and moved back to
Ireland over the summer or have bought one-way tickets home before Christmas.
''This will be the fourth brother to go.''

Some leave reluctantly. ''I don't really have much of a choice,'' said Johnny
C., 44, a construction worker who made a good living in New York for 14 years,
only to see his jobs dwindle since a Department of Motor Vehicles crackdown this
year left him unable to renew his driver's license. He sent his wife and
13-year-old United States-born daughter back to Waterford, Ireland, in June, he
said, speaking on condition that his last name not be published, and he will
join them this week.

Counselors in immigrant advice bureaus on both sides of the Atlantic say that
many returnees will have a rude awakening in Ireland -- especially those who
were stuck in the underground economy in the United States, unable to travel
abroad for fear of not getting back in. The Irish government now puts out
brochures warning that they will find not the Ireland of memory, but rather a
fast-paced multiracial society where their dollars are weak against the euro and
affordable housing scarce.

''The old tradition that you come to America and you work like hell and you
save, and you go back and the almighty dollar will give you a kick start --
that's all over,'' Mr. Flannelly said.

But for those who linger illegally in New York, there is another twist in the
Irish-American relationship. Now it is they who marvel at visiting Irish friends
and relatives who are able to fly to New York for the weekend, just to shop for
cheap designer-label goods, or to consider investing in a $300,000 apartment.

''For generations, we Irish have fled oppression and poverty to New York in the
hope of a better way of life; now it seems we just want to buy the place,'' Tim
O'Brien wrote in The Irish Times in a Sept. 23 article about ''the latest big
thing'' -- ''how affordable property is for the Irish investor.''

Johnny C., the construction worker, remembers that kind of attitude in the
Irish-American visitors of his childhood. ''The shoe is really on the other foot
now,'' he said.

In the Woodlawn section of the Bronx, where homes typically change hands through
word of mouth, the ripple effects are inescapable. An Irish-American landlord
said that half a dozen of his apartments had been vacant since August and that
his wife had to close down her home day care business as families moved away.

Siobhan Dennehy, director of the Emerald Isle Immigration Center, in Queens,
said others had only been holding out for a fresh approach to immigration after
the election. One example was a 40-year-old mother in Woodside, Queens, who
began packing last Wednesday after seven years. ''The election definitely tipped
things for me,'' she said as she prepared to take her New York-born daughter
back to Sligo. ''I may as well go home and be part of a society that I can
belong to and contribute to. Under Bush, it's never going to happen.''

But Anthony Finn, a counselor with the Emigrant Advice Centre in Dublin, said
the returnees might find disillusionment, too, in today's Ireland. The most
successful, he said, are those who got legal status in the United States; the
illegal are caught short in both economies.

On one side is Barry Fox, a carpenter who went from illegal day laborer to
American citizen earning a union wage over a dozen years in New York. ''I think
I'm actually better off,'' Mr. Fox, a father of three, said in a telephone call
from County Tyrone, where he built a home on his father's farmland after
returning three years ago.

Weighing the higher cost of parochial school education, health insurance and his
mortgage in Yonkers, he said even his $70-an-hour union carpenter's wage in New
York fell short of what he earned now.

At the other end is a couple that left Boston for County Cork two years ago, and
told Kieran O'Sullivan, a counselor at Boston's Irish Immigration Center, that
they now regretted it.

While they were in the United States, prices soared in Ireland, spurred by the
high-tech boom known as the Celtic Tiger. But they do not qualify for
high-paying work, they said, and service jobs in hotels and restaurants go to
the recent wave of immigrants from Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe willing to
work harder for lower wages.

''We were only gone for four and a half years, but everything had changed,'' the
wife said in a call from Ireland, asking to remain anonymous in hopes of
avoiding a 10-year ban on re-entering the United States, imposed on anyone found
to have overstayed a tourist visa by more than 180 days.

Mr. Finn, the emigrant advice officer in Dublin, agreed. ''They are not
returning,'' he said of the Irish from America. ''They're remigrating to a
different country.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A mural in Yonkers, top, depicts Irish athletes and musicians.
Johnny C., above, who has been a construction worker for 14 years in New York,
looks over an apartment he is about to leave to return to Ireland. (Photographs
by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Daniel Moloney Jr. unloads boxes belonging to Johnny C. outside Liffey Van
Lines in upper Manhattan for shipment to Ireland. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The
New York Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 14, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Changing Face of the Island's Labor Force

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1309 words


NEARLY seven years ago, a young veterinarian closed his small clinic in rural
Loja, Ecuador, said goodbye to his parents, wife and three children, and began
walking to the United States.

''Banks had money to lend big companies but not to small business owners,'' the
man said in Spanish, explaining why he closed his business. ''There was no
capital for people like me.''

The man said he traveled on foot through Ecuador and Colombia, then through
Central America and Mexico, living on what he could earn as a day laborer.
Somewhere in Mexico, he said, he agreed to pay a smuggler for a ride across the
border in a crowded van. The van proceeded up the East Coast; at the end of the
ride, he opened his wallet and handed over all his money -- a total of $20.

It wasn't nearly enough. The smuggler became belligerent, and demanded more. ''I
thought I would have to fight,'' the man said. He mimed a show of fists, trying
to communicate despite his lack of English. Then, he shrugged and smiled gently,
suggesting that he knew he had gotten off easily.

The man, who identified himself only as Angel because he immigrated illegally,
got out in Newark and made his way to Worcester, Mass. There, another immigrant
told him that plentiful work and higher pay abounded on Long Island.

''He asked me did I want to come with him,'' Angel said. ''I said yes.''

Today Angel rents a private room in a house in Hicksville that he shares with
six other Latino immigrants.

On most mornings he takes the bus to the New Frontier, a hiring hall in Glen
Cove run by an Hispanic advocacy group. Inside the hall, a spartan room
decorated with travel posters and English-language vocabulary charts, Angel
awaits potential employers. On a recent week, he found work four out of five
days: moving boxes in a warehouse for two days and working for a landscaper the
other two. The going pay rate: $10 an hour. Living frugally, he said, he managed
to wire home about $1,000 last year.

''No one,'' he said, ''has ever asked me to show papers for anything.''

People like Angel are, increasingly, the face of working-class Long Island. They
are often paid off the books, washing the dishes, mowing the lawns and
harvesting the crops in a society that does not officially recognize their
presence.

But the presence of immigrants, both legal and illegal, is increasingly obvious.
During the 1990's, the population of foreign-born residents in Nassau and
Suffolk grew by 45 percent, reaching nearly 400,000, according to a Brookings
Institution study, ''The Rise of Immigrant Gateways,'' released in March.

Estimating how many people are here illegally is difficult and loaded
politically. Government officials shy from the subject, fearing the reaction of
Hispanic groups and civil-rights advocates, many of whom contend that focusing
special attention on the legal status of Latino immigrants is a form of racism.
Federal agencies like the Immigration and Naturalization Service have in recent
years been reorganized, their missions altered.

''Most government officials won't touch the subject,'' said James M.
Staudenraus, the Eastern regional director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform. The organization, called FAIR, is, a private, nonprofit
group in Washington that advocates reducing immigration quotas and strengthening
border patrols. Mr. Staudenraus estimates that as many as 13 million illegal
immigrants live in the United States.

Mr. Staudenraus, who lives on Shelter Island, said that based on national
immigration patterns, Long Island is probably home to at least 183,000 illegal
immigrants.

Isabel Sepulveda de Scanlon, a Chilean immigrant and Hispanic advocate in
Southampton who became a naturalized citizen last year, said native-born
Americans should not presume to know a person's legal status based on apparent
ethnicity. At a public forum on immigration and assimilation held last summer on
the East End, Ms. Sepulveda, who helped organize an Hispanic community group
called Organizacion Latino Americana of Eastern Long Island, known as OLA,
challenged a speaker who suggested that the dozens of men who seek day jobs in
Southampton, gathering in front of a convenience store, were illegal immigrants.

''They are not all illegal,'' she said to scattered applause. ''We are not all
illegal. I'm not illegal. My daughters are not illegal. You can't say that about
all of us.''

Employers shy away from the question. The situation ''is getting to be a real
problem in terms of policing who is legal and who is not,'' said Joseph Gergela,
the executive director of the Long Island Farm Bureau. He said that the farmers,
nursery owners and agricultural businesses that are members of the bureau abide
by the same federal hiring rules as other employers. They are not obliged, he
said, to be more vigilant about screening out illegal immigrants than any other
employers.

''We don't ask these questions, so long as the worker is able to fill out the
I-9 form,'' said Mr. Gergela, referring to the Internal Revenue Service document
that requires employees show proof of legal residency. ''Our job isn't to
enforce immigration laws.''

For employers, the economic incentive to hiring illegal immigrants off the books
is powerful. Irv Miljoner, a federal Labor Department official in Hempstead who
monitors compliance with rules regulating hourly labor, said he believed the
underground economy on Long Island was expanding. More employers, he said, are
calling to tip him off about their rivals' hiring practices.

''In increasing numbers, we get complaints from employers about the guy down the
block paying cash off the books or not paying overtime to immigrants,'' Mr.
Miljoner said. Companies that play by the rules, he said, ''feel they cannot
compete.''

Gregory DeFreitas, an economist at Hofstra University and the director of the
its Center for Labor Studies, said that many businesses favor expanding
immigration. ''In some ways corporate America is very pro-immigrant, especially
pro-low-wage immigrant,'' said Dr. DeFreitas, who has studied immigration issues
for nearly 20 years.

Mr. Staudenraus of FAIR said the cost of gray-market labor was ultimately paid
by everyone. Employers who hire off the books ''get a minimum-wage worker, but
the public gets a subsidized worker,'' he said. ''The subsidy is paid in the
cost of schools, health care, the courts and the penal system. The cost-shifting
that goes on is enormous.''

Health care offers a vivid example, he said, and he cited Southampton Hospital
as an example. The hospital, in one of the wealthiest communities on Long
Island, finished 2003 with $7.3 million in uncompensated costs, much of this
amount run up by illegal immigrants who do not pay for the medical care they
receive, hospital officials said. And the costs are rising; in 2002,
uncompensated care totaled $4.7 million.

Annette Leahy, the hospital's chief executive, said the growing numbers of
illegal immigrants on the East End helped drive up uncompensated costs, but that
they were not the only recipients. ''There is a growing number of uninsured and
underinsured people'' in the area, she said.

Mr. Staudenraus recommends strict border patrols and deporting anyone who breaks
immigration laws.

Mr. Gergela, the Farm Bureau director, takes a different tack. ''From a
practical standpoint it will be impossible for the U.S. immigration force to be
large enough to get those people to go back where they came from,'' he said. To
try to do so, he said, ''is not reasonable, possible or sensible.''

''Our economy needs to bring them in, have them pay taxes and Social Security,''
he said. But he also acknowledged that offering amnesty to millions of illegal
immigrants was politically risky.

''This isn't popular in some quarters,'' he said. ''But if you think these
people are going to go away, you are mistaken.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia Sarro, coordinator for the New Frontier hiring hall in
Glen Cove, reading a list of possible jobs. On most mornings, Angel, an illegal
immigrant from Ecuador, takes the bus here from Hicksville, hiring himself out
for days jobs that pay $10 an hour. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Border a Busy One for U.S. Agents

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Nov. 26


More illegal immigrants were apprehended in Arizona during the last fiscal year
than were caught in California, New Mexico and Texas combined, according to the
latest statistics released by the Border Patrol.

In the 12 months that ended Sept. 30, Arizona's share of apprehensions along the
Mexican border grew to 52 percent from 16 percent in 1994.

While the Border Patrol says it has taken the same approach in Arizona as in
California and Texas, the results have been markedly different. In the years
since the agency began operations around San Diego and El Paso and in southern
Texas, apprehensions in those sectors have fallen a combined 64 percent.

The agency says proof of success is fewer apprehensions, an indication that
fewer people are trying to cross the border.

Andy Adame, spokesman for the Border Patrol's Tucson sector, said Arizona had
geographical obstacles not necessarily found elsewhere.

Nearly 75 percent of land along the border in the Tucson sector has access
restrictions. Some areas can be reached only by foot or horseback.

In addition, an extensive road network in northern Mexico and southern Arizona
provides relatively easy paths to and from the border.

Mr. Adame said the Tucson sector had indefinitely extended an initiative started
last June that added Black Hawk helicopters and pilotless aircraft and increased
the number of agents to more than 2,000.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grisly Scene Where Illegal Immigrants Died Is Described at Trial

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Maureen Balleza and Maria Narciso contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 30


A Fire Department paramedic, Capt. Donna Odem-Dollins, was among the first on
the scene, finding corpses piled well over her head. ''I toppled on a dead body
with its eyes open and I fell on him as he looked in my face mask,'' she
recalled.

Her testimony was among the accounts of ghastly scenes presented in a federal
courtroom here on Tuesday in the first trial of what the government presented as
a conspiracy that led to the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants found locked with
55 others in a sweltering trailer truck in Victoria, Tex., in May 2003.

In a largely empty chamber, an assistant United States attorney, Daniel C.
Rodriguez, condemned what he called a criminal enterprise of recruiters, guides,
drivers and cooks that ''treated people worse than cattle on the way to the
slaughterhouse.''

''This business had two goals,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''To make as much money as
possible as fast as possible and not get caught.''

The three defendants -- Victor Jesus Rodriguez, 38; Claudia Carrizales de Villa,
36; and Fredy Giovanni Garcia-Tobar, 25 -- are each charged with 58 counts of
harboring and transporting illegal immigrants, punishable by sentences of up to
life in prison and $250,000 fines. All have pleaded not guilty.

The man accused of being the driver, Tyrone Williams, 32, of Schenectady, N.Y.,
is to be tried separately and is the only one facing the death penalty. The
accused leader, Karla Patricia Chavez Joya, 26, of Honduras, pleaded guilty on
June 14 and agreed to cooperate with the government. She is to be sentenced next
year and could face life in prison.

Alberto Pullen, the lawyer for Mr. Rodriguez, said his client had merely picked
up three women in Brownsville, Tex., and taken them to Harlingen, Tex., as a
favor to his father. ''He was not involved in anything else,'' Mr. Pullen said.
Alberto Garcia, the lawyer for Mr. Garcia-Tobar, said his client ''had nothing
to do with a criminal enterprise except being in love with Karla.

''He was along for the ride,'' Mr. Garcia said.

And while the government contended that Ms. Carrizales was involved in feeding
the immigrants as part of a sham restaurant operation run by Ms. Chavez, Ms.
Carrizales's lawyers said she was just a cook.

Jurors were shown pictures of the scene where the truck was found, not visible
to spectators but described as pictures of the bodies. They were also shown
pictures of the trailer where those inside had tried to claw open holes so they
could breathe.

The most gripping accounts came from the rescuers. Roman Goodwine, a sheriff's
deputy who arrived at the scene on the outskirts of Victoria, about 125 miles
southwest of Houston, said, ''The first thing I noticed were some bodies on the
ground at the back of the trailer.'' Mr. Goodwine said he tried to take the
pulse of one but that the arm was stiff, indicating to him that rigor mortis had
begun to set in. He said he saw some people on top of the pile moving with what
looked like seizures or convulsions. ''They were opening their mouths like they
were trying to get air or speak,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nominee's Quick Exit Not a First for Bush

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11


If the quick appointment and even speedier exit of Bernard B. Kerik seemed
familiar to veterans of the Bush White House, there was a reason: It was not the
first time that haste made hash of one of Mr. Bush's nominees.

In early January 2001, when Mr. Bush was assembling his first cabinet from
offices in Austin, Tex., and here in Washington, a committed conservative, Linda
Chavez, broke the unwritten rules of Washington by failing to disclose all
during a very quick vetting process.

Mr. Kerik ran afoul the same way. White House officials said Saturday that they
had asked all the right questions about the status of his domestic help --
whether he paid taxes, whether anyone was in the country illegally. This is
hardly a new line of questioning. Hiring illegal immigrants has been prohibited
by law since November 1986, and it is the problem that tripped up the nomination
of Zoe Baird for attorney general under President Bill Clinton. It was
particularly important because Mr. Kerik, if confirmed, would oversee the
enforcement of immigration law.

''It's just not a position you can be in with the head of the Department of
Homeland Security,'' said one senior administration official.

The official argued that there was little else that officials in the White House
counsel's office could have done to check Mr. Kerik's assurances that he had no
''nanny problem.''

Unlike the protocol for most of corporate America, the heavy-duty vetting for
cabinet officials comes after the job has been announced, not before. The Bush
White House, like its predecessors, waits to conduct a full financial review and
F.B.I. check after the president has already submitted a nomination. It would be
simply too cumbersome, officials insist, to conduct a review lasting weeks
before the nomination -- and the name of the nominee would almost certainly
leak. Mr. Bush seemed to want to avoid such leaks, and his chief of staff,
Andrew H. Card Jr., carefully choreographed each appointment to follow quickly
after the announcement that one cabinet member or another had resigned.

There have been nine such resignations, but Mr. Kerik was one of only a handful
of new faces headed into the administration. And his name, as one Congressional
staff member pointed out, had been ''in the atmosphere'' since September, when
rumors began that Tom Ridge was likely to leave his post as the first secretary
of homeland security. But what is truly remarkable is how closely Mr. Kerik's
troubles mirrored Ms. Chavez's. She declined to tell the new Bush administration
that nearly a decade before she had given shelter and some modest financial aid
to an illegal immigrant as an act of compassion for a Guatemalan woman in
trouble. She hid some details from the F.B.I. The fate of her nomination
lingered for a few days, until Mr. Card and others pulled the plug. And after
her nomination was withdrawn, she said that if she had to provide aid to a needy
person like that all over again, she would.

In Mr. Kerik's case, it is still unclear what he knew, did not know and did not
want to know about his nanny's immigration status. But perhaps remembering the
events with Ms. Chavez, Mr. Card decided not to allow the issue to linger for
even a day. By the time the White House announced that Mr. Kerik had withdrawn
his name, the issue had come up and been disposed of within a matter of hours.

Like Ms. Chavez, Mr. Kerik, while admired, was not a member of the Bush inner
circle, meaning that there was no core of loyal defenders to help him out at the
White House. One White House official said she expected that by resolving the
issue on a Friday night, ''it will be forgotten by the middle of next week.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Albany: Trucker License Suspensions To Begin

BYLINE: By Nina Bernstein (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 138 words


The Department of Motor Vehicles plans to suspend within days the licenses of
thousands of truck drivers suspected of giving false information to the
department. Advocates for illegal immigrants said the action would
disproportionately hurt such immigrants, who cannot provide proper documentation
but need to drive. The advocates plan a protest rally tomorrow outside Gov.
George E. Pataki's Manhattan office. State officials said the suspension was
prompted by a concern over public safety. Joseph Picchi, a department spokesman,
said yesterday that the licenses of 6,000 commercial drivers, one of several
groups to be scrutinized, would be automatically suspended beginning Friday,
unless the drivers can provide valid Social Security information within 15 days.
Warning letters were sent out this month.   Nina Bernstein (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 21, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Program's Value in Dispute As a Tool to Fight Terrorism

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2000 words


The anxious man with silvering hair joined the sea of immigrants pouring into
the steel and glass building in Manhattan that houses one of the nation's
busiest immigration courts. When a judge called his name on one recent morning,
the man, Rafiqul Islam of Bangladesh, steeled himself to hear that his life in
America was finally over.

Last year, Mr. Islam and thousands of other Arab and Muslim men came forward to
be fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed by immigration officials hunting
for terrorists. Officials ultimately determined that almost none of them had
links to terrorism. But Mr. Islam was in this country illegally, and the judge
said he had no choice but to deport him.

''You must leave the United States no later than Feb. 25,'' the judge, Gabriel
Videla, told Mr. Islam, 63. ''Good luck, sir.''

Mr. Islam is one of nearly 13,000 illegal immigrants from Arab and Muslim
countries who were placed in deportation proceedings after voluntarily
participating last year in the nation's largest effort to register immigrants in
decades. The counterterrorism program, created after the attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, was hailed as a success by Justice Department officials, who said they had
arrested suspected terrorists and gathered vital information about more than
83,000 immigrants from countries considered breeding grounds for terrorism.

But though the program made the government aware of thousands of illegal
immigrants like Mr. Islam, officials now say there is little evidence to suggest
that it succeeded in capturing suspected terrorists. Homeland Security
officials, who said that six men linked to terrorism were arrested as a result
of the call-in program, have been challenged by the Sept. 11 commission, which
reported this year that it had found little evidence to support that claim.

The commission said two of the six men were captured through other means. It
could not determine how the remaining suspects were arrested and concluded that
the counterterrorism benefits of the program were ''unclear.''

The call-in program required male noncitizens from 25 mostly Arab and Muslim
countries to register with immigration authorities between November 2002 and
April 2003. None of the Arab and Muslim men who came forward has been charged
with crimes related to terrorism.

Homeland Security officials, who inherited the program from the Justice
Department, suspended it 12 months ago, saying resources could be better used on
other counterterrorism initiatives. They declined to comment on the commission's
findings. But the impact of the program continues to be felt across the country
as some illegal immigrants who registered with the authorities receive
deportation orders, while others wage legal battles to remain in the United
States.

In the Midwood section of Brooklyn, the Muslim owners of more than 30 businesses
have already shuttered their stores and left the country, community advocates
say. In Columbia, Md., Nasir Qureshi, a Pakistani jeweler, is scrambling to
legalize his status by Dec. 31, the deadline set by a local immigration judge,
so that he does not have to uproot his wife and three young children. In Ann
Arbor, Mich., two taxi drivers from Morocco who had dreamed of finding wives and
well-paying jobs have been ordered to return home by Feb. 14.

And in Elmhurst, Queens, Mr. Islam, an engineer and artisan, is preparing to
pack his bags after eight years in the United States.

For his 22-year-old daughter, Nishat, who plans to stay behind, the news of his
coming departure was a second blow. Last year, her husband was deported after
participating in the program.

Some officials say this sweeping roundup of illegal immigrants diverted
resources from more pressing counterterrorism needs, strained relations with
some Arab and Muslim nations and alienated immigrants who might otherwise have
been willing to help the government hunt for terror cells in this country.
Because the immigration service has long lacked adequate resources to crack down
on the millions of illegal immigrants living here, some advocacy groups have
accused officials of practicing selective enforcement by focusing on those from
Arab and Muslim nations.

James W. Ziglar, who was commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service before it was subsumed into the Department of Homeland Security, said he
and members of his staff had raised doubts about the benefits of the special
registration program when Justice Department officials first proposed it. He
said he had questioned devoting significant resources to the initiative because
he believed it unlikely that terrorists would voluntarily submit to intensive
scrutiny.

''The question was, 'What were we going to get for all of this?''' said Mr.
Ziglar, whose employees at the I.N.S. were responsible for registering the Arab
and Muslim immigrants. ''The people who could be identified as terrorists
weren't going to show up. This project was a huge exercise and caused us to use
resources in the field that could have been much better deployed.''

''As expected, we got nothing out of it,'' said Mr. Ziglar, who had a cool
relationship with his boss, Attorney General John Ashcroft, before leaving
government service in 2002. ''To my knowledge, not one actual terrorist was
identified. But what we did get was a lot of bad publicity, litigation and
disruption in our relationships with immigrant communities and countries that we
needed help from in the war on terror.''

Kris Kobach, the architect of the program at the Justice Department, disputes
that assessment, saying the program was invaluable. He said it had provided the
government with fingerprints, photographs, banking and credit card records about
Arab and Muslim immigrants that were previously unavailable.

The mass registrations were necessary, Mr. Kobach said, because there was no
systematic way to track immigrants once they entered the country, a fault that
became evident when it was found that some Sept. 11 hijackers had overstayed
their visas. And he dismissed concerns about the impact of the program on
immigrants, noting that only those living here illegally were subject to
deportation.

In the 1940's and 1950's, with mounting fears of war and Soviet infiltration,
the government also conducted mass registrations of immigrants, eventually
involving more than two million. Mr. Kobach said officials tried to walk a fine
line with the special registration program, striving to protect national
security while maintaining the nation's commitment to immigrants.

''No one was charged with terrorism crimes, but that argument completely misses
the point,'' said Mr. Kobach, who was an adviser to Mr. Ashcroft and is now a
law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City.

''We gained a lot of information and we have to remember the disruptive value:
this forced terror cells in the United States to modify their behavior,'' said
Mr. Kobach, who disputes the Sept. 11 commission's conclusions. ''We were able
to identify terrorists who came in to register. And for those terrorists who
didn't come in, we now have a legal basis for arrest if we encounter them.''

The program, which made failure to register a misdemeanor and grounds for
deportation, has given the authorities the legal basis to arrest and deport
suspected terrorists, even those who are in the United States legally.

In its report, the Sept. 11 commission noted that one detainee from Al Qaeda
reported that government efforts to review immigration files and deport Muslim
immigrants had made Qaeda operations more difficult. The commission said that if
the detainee was credible, the program might have had a deterrent effect, but
that it was difficult to measure the success of operations that include
deterrence as a goal.

The commission also made it clear that concerns about the program extended
beyond the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Some State Department
officials feared that the program would offend Arab and Muslim nations that were
cooperating with the United States in the global campaign against terrorism.
Robert S. Mueller III, director of the F.B.I., echoed those concerns in
testimony before the commission, saying the program came at a cost to American
relations with important allies.

In a notice published in the Federal Register last year, Department of Homeland
Security officials said the initiative was not cost-effective. But they say it
did provide some important benefits.

They say they still use information collected from the registrants to track
immigrants who raise security concerns. They have initiated deportation
proceedings against 192 immigrants who failed to register and charged a handful
of them with misdemeanor crimes.

''It was the right tool back then,'' said Victor X. Cerda, the acting director
of detention and deportation operations at the Department of Homeland Security.
''But we've moved forward to start looking in a more targeted manner now. It's
potentially more efficient and more effective using our resources in a more
targeted manner.''

Some aspects of the original registration program remain. Immigrants from the 25
countries are still required to register with immigration officials when they
enter and leave the country. Officials had said this practice would be
eliminated when fingerprinting and photographing of foreign visitors at airports
became routine, but now say they have kept the process because the interviews
required of registrants are more extensive than those required of most foreign
visitors.

But it is the call-in program that has many immigrant neighborhoods churning.
After the program was announced in 2002, hundreds of illegal immigrants from
Arab and Muslim nations fled to Canada. Others burrowed more deeply underground.

Of the 192 men placed in deportation proceedings for failing to register, 35
have already left the country. Officials say they do not know how many of the
roughly 13,000 illegal immigrants who registered have been deported so far. But
in many cities, Arab and Muslim immigrants are quietly vanishing one by one.

In Pittsburgh, Abdel Qader Abu-Snaineh, a 22-year-old student from Jordan who
lived in the United States legally and graduated with a bachelor's degree in
computer science from La Roche College in Pittsburgh, was sent home in October
because he forgot to register. In Brooklyn, Moustafa Fahmy, 52, who washed cars
for a living, went back to Egypt in October after acknowledging that he was
living illegally in the United States when he registered last year.

In Queens, Mr. Islam spends sleepless nights, wondering how his daughter and two
grandchildren will cope without him. He and his daughter traveled to this
country on tourist visas in 1996 and stayed on after they expired, hoping to
build lives here. Ever since his son-in-law, who managed a perfume store, was
deported in October 2003, Mr. Islam has tried to support his family by selling
ornate handmade placards and wooden figurines.

Immigration officials have not tried to systematically deport the relatives of
the Arab and Muslim men who registered with the government. So for now, Mr.
Islam's daughter plans to remain here. But since her husband was deported, she
has struggled to find work and often cannot afford food or medicine for her
young children.

''In our country, we think America is the dream country,'' she said bitterly.
''But our dreams are broken. There are no dreams come true here.''

Mr. Islam acknowledges that he was living in the United States illegally and
does not have grounds to legalize his status. He will not hide, he says, or try
to evade the deportation order. But he still cannot understand why the
government would force him to leave when he willingly responded to its call for
help in the hunt for terrorists.

''We know that if we stay in this country we should obey the rules,'' Mr. Islam
said. ''That's why we went to register. I wasn't worried. I knew I hadn't done
anything bad. We came here just to work and to prosper.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nishat Islam of Queens, whose husband was deported last year,
may soon lose her father, Rafiqul, right, who has been ordered out of the
country.
 Moustafa Fahmy of Brooklyn left after admitting he was in the United States
illegally. His friends raised money for his one-way ticket to Cairo.
(Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 23, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Holidays Inspire a Rush to the Border

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1224 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Dec. 20


Every year at this time, the restaurant kitchens and vegetable fields of
California empty out. Prayers are said to San Cristofo, money is removed from
mattresses, and Mexicans head home.

The United States-Mexico border is broken, say United States immigration and
customs officials. And at no time is the stress on the border more visible than
the holidays, when immigration and customs officials say they are most
overwhelmed.

At the San Ysidro crossing here, on one side of the toll gates, immigrants head
back to Mexico for the holidays, their pickup trucks and vans packed with
washing machines, teddy bears and cheap lawn furniture. On the other side,
customs agents probe gasoline tanks and dashboards with mirrors on sticks, while
drug-sniffing dogs ferret through the upholstery in search of drugs bound for
American cities like Los Angeles and New York to fill the New Year's Eve demand.

More than one million Mexicans will go south for the holidays, about half of
them exiting through San Diego into Tijuana, officials say. Some are legal
residents, but most, border officials say, are illegal immigrants, who in a
month's time will pay thousands of dollars to have smugglers sneak them back to
their jobs in the United States.

''It's like the salmon going home,'' said Mike Unzueta, the acting special agent
in charge of the San Diego sector for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency. ''Come January, we'll get killed with illegal immigration back from
Mexico.''

The torrent of travel that began in mid-December on the feast day of Our Lady of
Guadalupe will peak just before Christmas. Then the travel will reverse back
into the United States in mid-January after Dia de los Reyes, or Three Kings
Day.

In the days leading up to Christmas, an average of 180,000 cars will cross the
border daily at San Diego, up from a normal day of 140,000, making it the
busiest land border in the world.

When immigrants make their way to Mexico, they must contend with corrupt Mexican
police officers and border guards, who extort, harass and often demand a little
Christmas gratuity from those returning home with cash and gifts.

''The Mexican system is corrupt,'' said Gilberto Serrano-Contreras, 40, who
keeps a home in Tijuana and has been working intermittently in Los Angeles for
the past 20 years. ''That's why so many go north. You can't get ahead here.''

Rodrigo Salinas-Marquez, 37, a gardener in Orange County, shrugged as Mexican
customs officials rooted through his pickup truck. ''You pay going in, you pay
going out,'' he said. ''That's the life of the Mexican.''

The shakedown is so widespread that 15 years ago the Mexican government began
something called the Paisano Program in which customs officials guide Mexicans
through the repatriation process and field their complaints about corrupt
officials.

''It is supposed to be the only place where you pay customs fees,'' said Renaldo
Rojo, a Mexican immigration official in Tijuana. ''It is supposed to keep the
cops' hand out of their pockets.'' Several traveling Mexicans with newly
acquired American tastes complain that they have to wait in long lines to
register their vehicles at the Mexican checkpoints, enduring a disorganized and
unfriendly bureaucracy.

And then there is the problem of the freelance criminal. Confusion provides
cover, and so the holiday season is also the season for drug smugglers, money
launderers, even peddlers of knockoff Coach bags.

United States customs officials say the holiday is a peak for drug smuggling
into the United States as crops ripen and drug cartels from Colombia to Mexico
rush to get marijuana and cocaine to market. The drug traffic doubles at this
time of year, officials say. A ton of marijuana has been confiscated each of the
last two weeks in San Diego, along with sundry amounts of cocaine and
methamphetamine. Though the street value of the drugs seized is estimated at
several million dollars, it is a pittance in a transnational industry pegged at
more than $20 billion a year. United States agents say they are simply
outmanned.

''During the holidays, people up north want their dope,'' said Dan Burke, a
United States customs investigator. ''Down south, people want their money. There
are employees to pay in Mexico. It's Christmas time, and people have presents to
buy.''

Consequently, as much as $5 million a day flows into Mexico at this time of year
through San Diego alone, Mr. Burke said. The cash is carried not only by Mexican
smugglers but also by desperate American gamblers who are recruited from local
casinos after blowing the Christmas money at the slot machines. Once in Mexico,
the money is deposited in local banks or funneled into currency exchange offices
established solely to launder the money and wire it back into the United States.

Along the 1,951 miles of the border, through cities like Laredo, Tex., Nogales,
Ariz., and San Diego, the Christmas hustles are limited only by one's
imagination. Stolen washing machines and televisions that are too hot to sell in
the United States are simply driven into Tijuana one or two at a time and sold
there.

Knockoff designer handbags are smuggled from Asia to the United States and
finally exported into Mexican border towns where American shoppers expect to
find them. United States customs officials seized 1,000 knockoff bags last week
in San Diego en route to Mexico.

Border patrol agents contend that the Mexicans themselves are the biggest
problem, and though Christmas is a slow season for human trafficking, it never
really stops. A toddler was found last month stuffed in a pinata. The smugglers
were let go, border patrol agents said.

''The border is broken, Mexico is broken, the immigration policy is broken, and
you can see it right now at Christmas time on the border,'' said George E.
McCubbin, vice president of the National Border Patrol Council, the union
representing 10,000 border patrol agents.

''These people you see now going home, we'll be chasing in a month,'' Mr.
McCubbin said. ''And the smuggling business has gotten so lucrative and ruthless
it puts our agents at risk of being killed.''

Though 2,000 border patrol agents will be added over the next five years, they
do not address the reason immigrants come illegally, he said, adding, ''We have
to have the will to go after the employers.''

With the Mexican economy faltering and Mexicans believing that the Bush
administration will offer blanket amnesty to illegal immigrants, more people
entered the United States illegally last year than any other since Sept. 11,
2001. Officials estimate that three million people entered the United States
illegally last year, a majority of them Mexican.

The business of smuggling people has become so lucrative that drug-style cartels
are in the game. As a consequence, murder and kidnapping have skyrocketed in
Phoenix, the main hub of the smuggling business. An illegal crossing costs
upward of $2,000.

''Stand on the border around Christmas and you'll see what a joke the
immigration policy is,'' Mr. McCubbin said.

Not all news is bad on the border. In a ceremony on Monday, 90 wild parrots
smuggled into the United States were repatriated to Mexico, a gift from the
American government.

One cynical border official sniffed that the parrots, too, would probably make
their way back to Los Angeles after Three Kings Day.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Customs officials say 180,000 vehicles daily are now crossing
the border at San Diego, up from 140,000. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Choices on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 90 words



To the Editor:

Both you and the president seem to think that illegal immigrants are filling
jobs that Americans don't want. This is a backward reading, and is indefensible
at a time when Wal-Mart employs hundreds of thousands of workers who cannot
afford health care, earning wages below the poverty line.

Without immigration, suburbanites might mow their own lawns, but I doubt that
other jobs that immigrants fill would go unfilled if wages were raised to
account for the lack of exploitable labor.

Jon Raphael
Plainview, N.Y., Dec. 29, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 8, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Videoconferences Give Immigrants a Link to the Families They Left Behind

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; What's on TV? A View of Loved
Ones From Afar; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words


Jesus L., a 42-year-old construction worker and illegal immigrant from the
southern highlands of Ecuador, had not seen the three children he left behind
for 11 years.

But there they were just before the New Year, conjured up on a wall-mounted
television screen by the hocus-pocus of the Internet in real time in a
storefront in Jackson Heights, Queens. They giggled self-consciously in
home-movie fashion, spinning around to show him how much they had grown and
making the eternal appeal of children for a dog.

''You are so tall,'' he was able to tell his son, Santiago, whom he had not laid
eyes on since he was a 9-month-old infant and was now, he could plainly see, a
lean, dark-haired boy of 12.

''You are so nice, very beautiful,'' he told his daughters, Maribel, 20, and
Nadia, 17, who showed off their figures, hands on hips in mock fashion-model
style.

His wife, Maria, sitting next to him on a leather couch, had not seen her
children for two years, so she stood up in front of the camera to show them the
latest family event: her bow-shaped belly.

''One more brother is coming up,'' she said, although she does not know yet
whether she is expecting a boy or a girl. The children, seated together in a
small room in Cuenca, a 16th-century city, were delighted, as Jesus and Maria
could plainly see by their faces on the television screen.

Their conversation took place the way it did because of the wizardry of
videoconferencing, a technology first devised for chief executives to
communicate with their far-flung underlings. The format is slowly becoming
popular with the city's poor immigrants as the most vivid way to communicate
with their families back home.

At some of the storefronts that offer cheap flights home, money transfers and
other services in immigrant communities, Ecuadoreans, Colombians, Pakistanis,
Mexicans and others are finding what Jesus L. found: a small room with a
computer-driven flat-screen television and a video camera.

With a few clicks of a remote and at a relatively low cost -- $1.50 per minute
for Jesus L. -- the setup takes them back to their hometowns and brings their
hometowns here.

''It reduces the emotional distance,'' said Sharon Zukin, an urban sociologist
at Brooklyn College.

Indeed, the conversations are often emotionally intense. At Austro Financial
Services on Roosevelt Avenue, Jesus' intercontinental exchange with his children
was not all playful. The daughters were angry with him for straining the
marriage by becoming involved for a time with another woman.

''If you separate, what will happen to us?'' Maribel pleaded. ''We are a family;
please don't break up.''

Jesus could see --not just hear -- Maribel's anger.

''I don't want any more problems. I want to change what I did before,'' Jesus
said, kneading his calloused workman's hands in shame. ''I want to try.''

Poorer and illegal immigrants who cannot afford to travel back home or are
afraid they will not be allowed back into the United States particularly favor
videoconferencing. Jesus, for example, left Ecuador because he could barely
support his family on a shoemaker's wages, but he cannot fly back to visit his
children because he has no legal immigration documents.

While the videoconferencing systems have long been available here, they have
only recently been introduced in the less technologically advanced countries
that most immigrants come from. Banco del Austro, the parent company of Austro
Financial, has provided the service for a year and a half in its offices in
Cuenca, Azogues and Canar and will soon do so in Quito, the capital city.

There are no hard data on this particular use of videoconferencing, but Rose
Kleriotis, the South American representative for International Communications
Industries Association, a trade group, said the technology could be introduced
on a simple computer monitor fitted with a camera and with increasingly
available software, which videoconferencing entrepreneurs said had come down in
price.

''If you have a camera and computer and program on the other end, then you can
talk as long as you want,'' Ms. Kleriotis said.

Videoconferencing is another one of the bridges that have narrowed the chasm
between immigrants and their home cultures. While coming to America a century
ago usually meant saying goodbye to relatives and homeland forever, today's
families keep in touch regularly through cheap flights and phone calls,
satellite television and the Internet.

While it cannot recreate the warmth of a relative's hug or the scent of a
cherished child, videoconferencing is a ''qualitative leap'' in turning the
experience of immigration into something less than a permanent break, according
to Philip Kasinitz, a professor of sociology at the Graduate Center of the City
University of New York.

Jesus put it more simply.

''I can see their faces, I can see how they are, tall or small,'' he said, ''so
the emotion is very different.''

For many, videoconferencing provides the only way to communicate in real time.
Two deaf and mute Ecuadorean brothers, each on a different continent, were able
to talk for the first time in sign language when they could see each other's
hand movements on a television screen, said Paola Palacios, who manages the
Cuenca end of the conversation for Banco del Austro.

Mercedes Delgado of Cuenca had not seen her son in Queens for seven years. She
took his five children, who had also not seen him, and a sister into the
videoconferencing room in Cuenca so they could talk with him while he was in
Queens.

Diego Pinos, who manages the ''videoconferencia'' for Austro Financial Services,
said that he handled 30 conferences a weekend and that business was especially
brisk during the Christmas season.

''I feel good about my job because the people can see their families,'' he said.
''Sometimes when they finish they are crying 'My father! My son!'''

On New Year's Eve, Laura A., 50, a jewelry worker in Long Island City, Queens,
was able to see her husband, four sons, a daughter, three daughters-in-law and
six grandchildren all at once as they squeezed into and around a couch in a tiny
room in Cuenca. The latest grandchild, swaddled in white, was just two months
old.

Laura, sobbing with delight, said, ''He has the same face as his father,''
something she could not have said on the telephone.

Her daughter and daughters-in-law were quickly in tears, which she was able to
see.

''Please don't cry,'' Laura said. ''Not today. I'm going to be happy today.''

She could see one granddaughter's long pigtails. She could see that one of her
sons was putting on weight and admonished him, ''You have to lose weight.'' She
could see that her daughter and daughters-in-law were staying in shape. Her
daughter, Gabriela, hands on hips, showed off her figure.

Laura stood up, too, in front of the camera and exhibited her youthful figure.

''I dressed in black to look slim,'' she said, but then added, ''Can you see my
wrinkles?''

She had been particularly concerned about Danilo, her youngest son, who has
struggled with a drinking problem but seems to be winning. She asked him to step
forward and, seeing his long sad face, said, ''I'm always thinking about you a
lot.''

Her oldest son, Pablo, and her husband, Jaime, began to cry.

''Pablo, don't cry,'' she told her eldest. ''You have always been a strong
person. I will be back with you, and I will raise that grandchild.''

The day was particularly evocative because it was on New Year's Eve 11 years ago
that she left Ecuador. Her jewelry business in Cuenca had failed, and she hoped
to make money in New York City to continue supporting her family back home.
Danilo and Gabriela were young children when she left. She never got the
appropriate immigration documents and so has never returned, though she is
working on getting a green card.

''Get together tonight and enjoy the evening as a family,'' she said in a shaky
voice. ''My heart is with you every day of my life. You are very precious to
me.''

For 40 minutes, though, thanks to videoconferencing, she was together with them
-- virtually -- as a family in the same small room.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura A., an illegal immigrant, uses the videoconference room
at Austro Financial Services in Queens to meet with her husband, children,
grandchildren and other relatives in Cuenca, Ecuador, which she left 11 years
ago after her business failed. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg.
B1)
 Austro Financial Services in Jackson Heights, Queens, handles 30
videoconferences a weekend, and the Christmas season is especially busy. (Photo
by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: Bar On Illegal Immigrants Withstands
Challenge

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 108 words


A federal appeals court has refused to block a state law, approved by voters in
November, that bars illegal immigrants from voting or seeking public assistance.
A two-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
late last week rejected a petition by the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Education Fund to stop enforcement of the law, known as Proposition 200. The
fund said it was exploring legal options. Proposition 200 mandates that
government workers check the immigration status of people applying for public
assistance. Workers who do not comply could face a misdemeanor charge,
punishable by jail time and a fine.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Twist in Smuggling Case Over Complicity in Deaths

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 20


Lawyers representing the woman named as the leader of the botched smuggling
operation that killed 19 illegal immigrants in a sealed tractor-trailer in Texas
in 2003 moved in federal court on Thursday to withdraw her guilty plea. They
said the government may have had advance knowledge of the scheme and so amounted
to ''a co-conspirator.''

In hastily filed court papers citing sketchy hearsay accounts that were later
challenged by one of the named sources, the lawyers said that the packed truck
may have been under surveillance, or even X-rayed, at a Border Patrol checkpoint
and that someone may have been bribed to let the truck through.

No such specific information has emerged in any of the many official
proceedings. The truck is known to have passed through a checkpoint at Sarita,
south of Kingsville; X-ray technology has been used at some Texas checkpoints
since the Sept. 11 attacks; and a survivor has testified that smugglers said
some of the payments were needed for bribes.

Judge Vanessa D. Gilmore, who has taken the government to task on other issues,
directed it to respond by noon Friday and scheduled a hearing for 9:30 a.m.
Monday.

Michael T. Shelby, the United States attorney for the Southern District of
Texas, who had hailed the guilty plea and cooperation agreement with the woman,
Karla Chavez, a Honduran, as a breakthrough in the nation's deadliest smuggling
case, said, ''The government intends to file its response to these allegations
and we continue to be confident in our case.'' He declined to say more, citing
an order not to speak imposed by Judge Gilmore.

The two lawyers who filed the motion, John C. LaGrappe and Jeffrey D. Sasser,
said they could not go beyond what was in their papers.

The filing came amid intense maneuvering on the eve of the often-delayed trial
of the truck driver, Tyrone M. Williams, a Jamaican from Schenectady, N.Y., and
the only one of 14 defendants to face the death penalty from the effort in May
2003 to slip 74 men, women and children across the Mexican border and deep into
Texas. The truck, without water or air-conditioning, was abandoned in the
scorching heat of Victoria, Tex. Two other defendants were convicted in December
and a third was acquitted on Judge Gilmore's finding that prosecutors had failed
to prove that she had profited from the scheme.

Jury selection in the Williams trial was to have resumed Friday, but on Tuesday,
Judge Gilmore granted a postponement while Mr. Williams's lawyer, Craig A.
Washington, appealed to the entire United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit, in New Orleans. Mr. Washington sought a rehearing on the contentious
issue of whether the government should be made to explain in court whether race
was a factor in seeking the death penalty against Mr. Williams, who is black.

The motion to withdraw Ms. Chavez's guilty plea, which she entered in June,
claims the plea ''was gained by deception at the hands of the government which
has consistently failed to act in good faith in this case.'' This included what
Mr. LaGrappe and Mr. Sasser portrayed as browbeating sessions by an assistant
United States attorney, Daniel Rodriguez. In another episode, which led to
evidence being suppressed by Judge Gilmore, Mr. Rodriguez was portrayed in an
agent's notes as having misled one of the defendants later convicted, Fredy
Garcia-Tobar, the lawyers said in the motion. Mr. Rodriguez said Thursday that
he could not comment.

Most significantly, Ms. Chavez's lawyers contended, Mr. Sasser was told last May
by an investigative producer for the Houston television station KHOU Channel 11,
David Raziq (misspelled ''Raciq'' throughout the filing), that a law enforcement
source had told the producer that the truck carrying the illegal immigrants had
been under surveillance and been allowed through a checkpoint by Customs agents.
Mr. Raziq was also portrayed as relaying that some checkpoints employed X-ray
machines to see into the trailers.

The lawyers say they did not pursue the information at the time but did so this
month upon learning of what they called government misdeeds in the Garcia-Tobar
matter. The lawyers said in their motion that Mr. Sasser went back to Mr. Raziq
this month, secretly recording the conversation and coming away with the name of
the producer's source, a Houston-area constable said to have heard about the
surveillance from a law enforcement official who had been transferred to
Arizona.

The motion says that Mr. Sasser found the constable, Deputy Tom Will, who
claimed to have received the information from a Customs agent identified only as
''Roger,'' ''who was being abruptly transferred to Arizona because of some type
of whistleblower retaliation.''

The lawyers said they were unable to find him.

Deputy Will, reached Thursday on his cellphone while he was on patrol recovering
a stolen car, disputed the account, saying, ''That got blown out of
proportion.'' He said ''Roger'' was the name of a man he had met in a restaurant
''who was talking about it, and that was it -- I don't know who or anything
about Arizona.'' Beyond that, he said, he had no comment.

Mr. Raziq said ''the station has asked me to refrain from commenting at this
time.''

Mr. LaGrappe and Mr. Sasser said in their motion that they were prepared to
subpoena witnesses.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karla Chavez pleaded guilty in a fatal immigrant smuggling
operation. (Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Disputes Bribery Accusation in Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 21


Border agents stopped a trailer truck for about 21 seconds at a South Texas
checkpoint in 2003 with no inkling that it was packed with 74 illegal
immigrants, 19 of whom subsequently died in the nation's worst smuggling
disaster, the United States attorney's office said on Friday.

Strongly disputing a defense motion accusing the government of misconduct and
possible complicity in the deaths, the United States attorney here, Michael T.
Shelby, and other federal prosecutors said in opposing court papers that nothing
substantiated claims of bribery.

Investigators interviewed the inspector, Archie Buchanan, who had questioned the
truck driver, Tyrone M. Williams, at the Sarita checkpoint, the prosecutors
said, asserting, ''There was nothing out of the ordinary.''

They also said that ''no X-ray machine was present or otherwise available at the
time that the truck passed through the checkpoint.''

With passengers, including children, dying from heat and dehydration and banging
to get out, the trailer was detached and abandoned at a rest stop in Victoria,
Tex., on May 14, 2003.

Unless Mr. Williams's lawyers succeed in getting the United States Supreme Court
on Monday to agree to hear his appeal of claims of racial discrimination, his
often-delayed trial on charges carrying the death penalty will begin on Tuesday,
the judge in the case, Vanessa D. Gilmore ruled on Friday.

Of 14 people charged in the botched smuggling operation, two were convicted in
Houston last month, and one was acquitted. Others pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate with the government or face trial in Mexico.

The sharp exchange of legal motions came on a surprise effort on Thursday by
lawyers representing a woman charged as the ringleader of the scheme to withdraw
the guilty plea she entered last June. In papers seeking Judge Gilmore's
permission to withdraw the plea of the woman, Karla Chavez, her lawyers, John C.
LaGrappe and Jeffrey D. Sasser, accused the government of being deceptive in
part by failing to disclose that ''it was an unindicted co-conspirator in the
criminal conspiracy.''

They based the accusation on hearsay accounts stemming from a Houston television
producer who supposedly heard from a local constable that an unidentified
customs agent in Arizona knew of reported payoffs to customs agents to let the
truck through checkpoints. The motion asserted that checkpoints were equipped
with X-ray machines ''designed to see into trailers that would have alerted
officials as to the number of immigrants on the trailer.''

Such machines do exist, Border Patrol officials said, providing photographs of
some of them in action.

But prosecutors said in their motion on Friday, ''The government has inquired
and verified that no X-ray machine was present or otherwise available at the
time that the truck passed through the checkpoint.''

As for supposed payoffs, they said, ''the government has no information to
substantiate the allegations.''

Not included in the motion was the fact that on Dec. 9, Mr. Shelby announced the
indictment and arrest of an official of the Bureau of Customs and Border
Protection, Fabian Solis, on charges of accepting $300 for each illegal
immigrant he allowed to slip though his inspection lanes at three Texas border
crossings, not including Sarita, which is about 70 miles from the border.
Nothing in the announcement connected him to the truck with the 74 immigrants.

In opposing Ms. Chavez's move to withdraw her guilty plea with its possible life
sentence, prosecutors cited her earlier sworn admissions about coordinating the
smuggling operation and agreement to provide truthful information to the
government.

But instead, they said, at a debriefing by prosecutors last Oct. 22, Ms. Chavez,
a Honduran in her late 20's, provided so much false information that they
decided she could not be used as a prosecution witness. Consequently, they said,
she knew she could not expect the government to recommend lenient sentencing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Simple Solution

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 221 words


The county executive, Steve Levy, created an uproar last fall with a plan to
protect the people of Suffolk from illegal alien fugitives. It involved turning
county police officers into Justice Department deputies and authorizing them to
enforce federal immigration laws.

The idea, hatched by the Bush administration for the war on terrorism, was a
stretch for Suffolk County, whose undocumented immigrants tend to mow lawns,
blow leaves, work hard and keep their heads down.

Mr. Levy said that new police powers were the only way to keep violent aliens
from jumping bail. But advocates for immigrants called it a useless tactic that
would cause a vulnerable population of peaceable Latinos to fear the police.

Mr. Levy was steadfast for a while. Then he tinkered with the plan, suggesting
at various points that the deputies should be parole officers, or that county
employes get access to federal databases. None of that happened.

Mr. Levy's latest solution is the simplest and most obvious. He received
assurances from the federal authorities that Suffolk police could call them any
time. If a problem arises, the feds will help handle it, 24 hours a day.

Mr. Levy's critics insist that this is no big deal. Mr. Levy insists that it is.

Whatever. We're glad it has been put to rest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Search For Immigration Bribery Witness

BYLINE: By Ralph Blumenthal (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 111 words


Lawyers told a federal judge that they were searching for a witness who could
testify about bribery at a checkpoint where a truck carrying 74 illegal
immigrants, 19 of whom died, passed without inspection. The lawyers, John
LaGrappe and Jeffrey D. Sasser, representing Karla Chavez, accused of being a
smuggling ringleader, passed up the chance to take testimony from a deputy
constable whom they cited in court papers as another source of their bribery
accusations. The constable, Tom Will, was taken to court by prosecutors, who
dispute the bribery claims and said Deputy Will's testimony would be ''180
degrees'' from what the defense sought.   Ralph Blumenthal (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In $8 Billion Restaurant Industry, a Study Finds Mostly 'Bad Jobs'

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 542 words


A new study of New York City's restaurant industry has found that at least 36
percent of its workers are illegal immigrants, that 59 percent of restaurant
workers surveyed reported overtime violations, and that 73 percent said they had
no health insurance.

The study is scheduled for release today by the Restaurant Opportunities Center
of New York, an advocacy group for restaurant workers. Assistance with the study
was provided by numerous community groups, economists and sociologists.

According to the study, most of the city's more than 165,000 restaurant workers
earned less than $20,000 a year and 13 percent reported minimum wage violations.
The study also found that 33 percent of the city's restaurant workers reported
verbal abuse by their employers and that 19 percent said management illegally
took a share of the tips.

''While there are a few 'good' restaurant jobs in the restaurant industry, the
majority are 'bad jobs,' characterized by low wages, few benefits and limited
opportunities for upward mobility of increased income,'' the report concluded.

The study, based on surveys of 530 restaurant workers and in-depth interviews
with 35 restaurant executives and 45 workers, found that many restaurant
executives said rent and other costs in New York were so high that they feared
they would go out of business if they provided better wages and benefits. The
study said the city had more than 15,000 food and drinking establishments with
total revenue of more than $8 billion a year.

The study said fast food workers earned $6.99 an hour on average, restaurant
dishwashers earned $7.64 an hour; waiters, $9.33 an hour; and cooks, $13.45 an
hour.

E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the New York State Restaurant
Association, questioned the survey's representation of the industry.

He said restaurants played an important role in helping the city's immigrants,
noting that ''the restaurant industry is one of the few industries that offer
opportunities for new citizens and for people who have just come to this
country.''

According to the study, employers who were interviewed recognized that the wages
they paid were barely enough to live on, but they said it would be extremely
difficult to pay a living wage and still make a profit. The study quoted one
restaurant executive who said providing health benefits would be extremely hard
and could be the difference between staying in business and going under.

The study called for stronger enforcement of wage and occupational safety laws
and for government incentives, like tax breaks, to persuade restaurants to
provide better wages and benefits.

Saru Jayaraman, executive director of the Restaurant Opportunities Center, which
seeks to improve conditions for restaurant workers, said a major problem was
that white workers were often given the highest-paying, front-of-the-house jobs
like hostess or waiter, while Hispanic and Asian workers were often given the
lowest paying, back-of-the-house jobs like dishwasher or prep cook.

Mr. Hunt, the industry official, condemned any minimum wage and overtime
violations and denied that discrimination by race or by nationality was
widespread in New York restaurants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Everymigrant's Guide to Crossing the Border Illegally

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF and J. EMILIO FLORES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 8


When the desert is cool, as it is now, illegal immigration becomes a flood.

Of the million people who were arrested trying to sneak into the United States
over the Mexican border last year, more than half were caught from January to
April, the United States Border Patrol says.

To avoid detection, smugglers now lead people through more demanding and
dangerous terrain; more than 300 people died trying to cross last year.

To help prevent death and deportation, the Mexican government has published a
guide that advises its citizens on the intricacies of sneaking into the United
States. It also gives tips on how migrants should conduct themselves after
reaching the streets of the promised land.

The 31-page pamphlet, ''Guide for the Mexican Migrant,'' has infuriated some
American politicians and citizens who say the Mexican government is effectively
encouraging a criminal activity that is fraying the American cultural fabric and
draining state and local municipalities.

The Mexican government says it is simply recognizing reality.

Many illegal immigrants living in Los Angeles said they had heard about the
booklet, but few had actually seen it. A group of Latino men waiting for work
outside the Home Depot superstore on Sunset Boulevard were offered copies of the
booklet by a reporter. They freely admitted that they were in the United States
illegally. That said, the men flipped through the booklet for a few minutes
before dismissing the effort of the Mexican government.

''Useless,'' said Jorge Castillo, 30, a Guatemalan who has made the desert trek
seven times in seven years.

''Trash,'' said Efrain Travolia, 35, a Mexican who speaks a little English.

These men and a dozen others milling about offered a portrait of the trip and
practical advice on how to make it and how to live upon arrival in Los Angeles.

The booklet warns the migrant that if he decides to use the services of a
smuggler, he should not hand his children over to him, not carry packages or
drive a vehicle for him, as they may contain drugs, and not trust his
assurances.

There is better advice that may save your life, the men said.

''Never hire a coyote on the border,'' said Mr. Castillo, a thickly built man
with whiskers and gold teeth, referring to the smugglers who guide illegal
migrants into the United States. Have a friend recommend a contractor while you
are in your hometown, he advised. ''This way, if anything happens to you, your
family knows his family.''

Those who hire strangers at the border are more likely to be robbed, raped or
held for ransom, Mr. Castillo said. It should not cost more than $2,000, he
said, to go from the Mexican side of the border to Phoenix.

Once migrants are taken to Phoenix, the men said, they are locked in ''safe
houses'' until they call loved ones who wire money to the smugglers. The
enterprise works on a cash-on-delivery basis. Migrants should be sure to have a
code word so that if things are going badly, their loved ones can intervene by
going to the family of the smuggler back at home, ensuring the migrant's safety
and release, Mr. Castillo said.

''If immigration catches you, never give the name of the coyote,'' cautioned Mr.
Travolia, who said he had on occasion smuggled people over the border himself.
''You might end up dead or in prison.''

Mr. Travolia told of a woman who informed on a smuggler to United States
immigration officials. The smuggler then told officials that she was his
partner. ''She is sitting in jail right now,'' Mr. Travolia said.

Crossing a river can be risky, the Mexican government guide says: ''Heavy
clothing grows heavier when wet, and this makes it difficult to swim or float.''

Mr. Travolia, who is from Guadalajara, advised: ''Try never to cross the river.
Never do it. If you have to, write your name in your underpants in case you
drown. Then they can find your family and you can be buried by a priest.''

Mr. Castillo said that if migrants made it as far as an American river, that was
not the time to be cheap.

''Spend the $5 for an inner tube,'' he said.

Apparently there are people waiting at the riverbanks to rent flotation devices
to the traveler. The booklet carries little advice about what to carry, except
to say that salted water prevents dehydration.

The day laborers say that supplies for crossing the desert should include two
gallons of water, canned food, salty peanuts or seeds, painkillers and six packs
of tobacco or four cloves of garlic. The cigarettes are not for smoking but to
create a circle of tobacco in which to sleep.

''Tobacco keeps rattlesnakes away,'' Mr. Castillo said. Garlic applied liberally
to the shins also repels snakes, he added.

Wear dark colors, the men said. Never wear red; it can attract attention. Wear
two pairs of pants because walking is done in the darkness, when there is danger
of walking into cactus spines. Carry a plastic bag as a raincoat and blanket.
Sleep under bushes and out of the sun.

If immigration authorities chase you, count your steps. If you forget the
number, you cannot retrace the route to the spot where the group split. Then the
migrant may become disoriented and alone. ''These are the people who die,'' Mr.
Castillo said.

Pocket money is necessary, but never put your money in your pockets, they said.
Hide it on your body.

If the Mexican police arrest you before you cross the border, Mr. Castillo said,
offer 500 pesos immediately. Anything less, to the officer inclined to accept a
bribe, he added, could be construed as an insult and result in jail time. Last
year, 42 Mexican immigration officials were charged with running a human
smuggling ring.

The Mexican guide says that once migrants are living here they should not call
attention to themselves or alter their routines, and that they should refrain
from attending loud parties and driving without a license.

''Use your common sense,'' countered Mr. Castillo. ''This country is good as
long as you don't start offending people. Try to look confident.'' Never get
drunk and pass out in the bushes at Home Depot, he said. This is against the
law.

Whenever plagued by doubt or confusion while living in the United States, there
is one simple rule, Mr. Castillo said.

''Always remember how much you have suffered to get here. If you forget how much
you suffered, you will be sent back.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrant workers in Los Angeles looked over copies of a Mexican
government guide for migrants. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Legal and Otherwise

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 260 words



To the Editor:

Re ''A Little Help on Illegal Aliens,'' by James R. Edwards Jr. (Op-Ed, Feb. 6):

As an immigrant to the United States who lives in Suffolk County, I was
fascinated to read Mr. Edwards's account of how immigration is ''reshaping'' our
community -- apparently for the worse!

Mr. Edwards focuses on Hispanic immigrants, legal and otherwise, to the
exclusion of all other groups. Between the Hispanic Long Islanders counted in
the 2000 census (can it be that all are immigrants?) to Mexican drunken drivers
and day laborers, reading Mr. Edwards's article, one would be forgiven for
wondering if Hispanic immigrants were not responsible for all the problems we
face on Long Island, including the racist attacks perpetrated on
poverty-stricken Mexicans by non-Hispanic Long Islanders.

The fact is that immigrants have been ''reshaping'' America (and Long Island)
since the first colonists arrived on these shores seeking freedom from
persecution. With each new wave, reactions have been mixed -- some welcome the
newcomers, some are neutral and some, like Mr. Edwards, raise the alarm.

Every ethnic group has its criminals, drunken drivers and brawlers -- along with
its ''solid citizens.'' As a taxpayer, I want the police to catch the criminals
from every ethnic group, not just those of Latin descent. If our police tell us
that the added responsibility of enforcing immigration laws would interfere with
the conduct of their investigations, then that is good enough for me. Why it is
not good enough for Mr. Edwards?

Angela M. Hegarty
Central Islip

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: Lawmakers Propose Prison In Mexico

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 66 words


Some state lawmakers are pushing a plan to have a private prison built in Mexico
to house illegal immigrants now incarcerated in Arizona. A House committee
approved a measure on Wednesday authorizing the state to seek proposals for such
a prison. The idea was promoted as a way to reduce the state's costs in holding
the 3,600 to 4,000 illegal immigrants who have been convicted of crimes in
Arizona.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Utah Senate Approves Immigrant Driver's Card

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 19


The Utah Senate voted Friday to take driver's licenses away from people who
cannot prove they are legal residents and issue them a driving ''privilege''
card instead. Gov. Jon Huntsman, a Republican, said he would support the bill.

Hundreds of Hispanics and other immigrants protested the vote at the Capitol.
Tony Yapias, who was director of the State Office of Hispanic Affairs under
Governors Olene Walker and Michael O. Leavitt, both Republicans, said the
measure amounted to second-class privileges, would encourage racial profiling,
and would allow the police to corral the undocumented for deportation.

Mr. Yapias said as many as 500 people were at the Capitol on Friday afternoon,
filling the halls of the Capitol west wing and spilling outside on a plaza.

It was a peaceful demonstration, without chants or placards.

''I wouldn't call it a protest,'' said Lt. Bruce Riches of the Utah Highway
Patrol, who was on hand with a contingent of troopers.

The Legislature has debated this topic for years; last year a bill to deny
licenses to undocumented workers was defeated.

Senators supporting the bill said they were alarmed by a legislative
investigation that found that 58,000 undocumented workers, sometimes using
common addresses, had Utah licenses, and that some noncitizens were able to
register to vote and even cast ballots at the polls.

One apartment in Salt Lake City was listed by 62 people who got a driver's
license in the past year, raising the prospect of fraud, said the report, from
Legislative Auditor General John Scharff.

''It's scary, being taken advantage of,'' said Senator Gregory Bell, a
Republican, who said he was among the senators changing their mind and favoring
a restricted license for immigrants.

''Once they get a Utah driver's license, it's a platform for everything else,''
Mr. Bell said.

Senator Curtis Bramble, also a Republican, said that the bill was necessary to
stop fraud and that it would end what he called Utah's status as a ''gateway''
for undocumented workers to obtain legitimate identification.

The driving ''privilege'' card, for anyone unable to prove legal residency,
could not be used to board a plane, register to vote, obtain any other official
identification, trade for a license in another state or obtain any trappings of
citizenship. It would have to be renewed annually, and it would have different
fonts and colors than a regular blue-colored driver's license.

It would read, ''For driving privileges only -- not valid for identification.''

Mr. Bell said the demonstration did not sway senators, but Senator Ed Mayne, a
Democrat, said, ''I hope it put a face on the issue.''

Mr. Yapias said: ''We all recognize how sensitive this is post-9/11. We are just
as concerned about national security. We have everyday people here.'' He said a
single-purpose card would be demeaning and leave immigrants open to questioning
by the police.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Back Into the Shadows

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1843 words

DATELINE: PRINCETON


AS Witherspoon Street crosses Paul Robeson Place, it noticeably narrows, and the
coffee shops, cafes and bookstores of downtown Princeton give way to multifamily
frame buildings that have the look of converted boardinghouses. It is not the
Princeton of postcard charm and understated elegance.

On a recent day, a frigid wind was softened by the whisper of Latin music from
one of those frame homes. The sidewalks were deserted -- oddly so -- except for
a few pedestrians who walked gingerly along a slippery sidewalk toward Pelusa
Travel Agency or Alicia's Restaurant, two favorite local gathering places. Only
blocks away, wide, proud Witherspoon Street was busy with strollers and shoppers
wearing colorful scarves and formidable hats.

These days, the Hispanic immigrants who live on one side of Paul Robeson Place
but work on the other believe they have reason to keep a low profile. Several
months ago, agents from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- an
arm of the Department of Homeland Security -- raided an apartment building on
Witherspoon Street and arrested eight immigrants. Like many others in the John
Witherspoon neighborhood, they were suspected of being in the country illegally.

The incident in Princeton was one of dozens of raids carried out over the past
10 months in Mercer County in which scores of illegal immigrants were seized and
taken to a federal facility in Elizabeth or several county jails while awaiting
deportation. There have also been raids in West Windsor, Hightstown and Trenton.

Carol Chandler, an immigration lawyer who is representing about 30 of the
detainees, said one family was deported to Guatemala within days of being
seized.

In this current wave, according to lawyers familiar withj the cases, federal
agents seem to have primarily targeted Guatemalans who applied for and were
denied political asylum more than a decade ago, when their country was wracked
by civil war.

''That's the irony,'' said Maria Juega of the Latin American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, which is based in Princeton. ''These are people who tried to do
the right thing by trying to gain legal status. They waited for 10 years or more
in some cases, and now they're being told, 'Well, things are better now in your
country . You have to drop your life here and go back.'''

Two of the most recent arrests took place on Feb. 12 in Trenton, where four men
-- three from Guatemala and one from Honduras -- were taken into custody after
two early morning raids. Several days earlier, another raid led to the arrest of
three Ecuadoreans in Hightstown.

According to advocates familiar with the case, the agents in Hightstown were
looking for a specific person, but detained the three Ecuadoreans after learning
that they were undocumented.

In the aftermath of the crackdown, community activists, civil libertarians,
immigrant advocates, social workers and some politicians are questioning the
focus on Mercer County and the timing of the raids.

''We don't know the agenda, but there definitely is a pattern here,'' said
Rachel Adler, coordinator of an immigrant advocacy group in Trenton.

Moreover, advocates for the immigrants say, the government's actions are driving
illegal immigrants further underground. As a result, they say, the immigrants
are being left open to exploitation by thieves who see them as ripe targets
because of their fear of the police.

''The raids have had a chilling effect in the community,'' said Juan Martinez of
Trenton, who heads an organization called People for the Revitalization of the
South Ward. ''After there is a raid, nobody goes to work and nobody sends their
children to school. They're afraid, and this is a problem.''

The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- which has a policy of not
commenting on individual arrests -- did not return several calls inquiring about
the raids.

Activists like Mr. Martinez, along with immigration lawyers and advocates, have
called on local governments to reach out to Hispanics and withhold cooperation
with federal authorities when they execute raids. Their campaign won a victory
several weeks ago when Mayor Douglas H. Palmer of Trenton issued an executive
order intended to protect immigrants who are seeking help from government
agencies, including the police.

''The order came in response to the raids in Trenton,'' said Francis Blanco, an
aide to Mayor Palmer. ''We wanted to assure immigrants that if they are here,
they will not be treated like third-tier citizens, that they are entitled to
basic human rights.''

Fearing that the raids threatened to ''break the bond'' between local agencies
and immigrants, Ms. Blanco said, ''When that happens, communication ceases to
exist, and people in the community become targets for outsiders who know that
the immigrants are afraid to call the police.''

For instance, activists say, it was no coincidence that shortly after the raid
in Princeton, two Hispanics were assaulted, and that one of the victims waited a
week before reporting the incident out of fear of being deported.

The result of all these raids is a mixed message for the thousands of Hispanic
immigrants, many of whom are in this country illegally. On the one hand, the
raids are taking place against backdrop in which 18 states allow illegal
immigrants to obtain driver's licenses. But at the same time, a bill that
recently passed the House and went to the Senate would bar states from granting
those privileges -- part of federal crackdown on illegal immigrants in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

Moreover, relations between local and federal agencies is being strained by
pending federal legislation that would require local police to enforce
immigration law. Introduced in 2003, the measure -- called the Clear Law
Enforcement for Criminal Alien Removal Act -- represents a major shift.
Currently, local police departments are charged with enforcing criminal law,
while immigrants in the country illegally are in violation of civil law.

What is more, the legislation does not provide additional federal funds for
training police in immigration law enforcement or for the hiring of additional
officers to help with the increased workload. As a result, dozens of police
agencies, including several in New Jersey, are on record opposing the measure,
as are several civil liberties groups.

Immigration advocates say that passage of the proposed federal legislation would
worsen already frayed relations between the state's growing immigrant population
and the local police. For its part, a coalition of advocates in Mercer County
wants local police agencies barred from participating in immigration raids.

''Most police departments want to foster community policing, because they want
people to trust the police,'' said Ms. Adler, an assistant professor of
sociology and anthropology at the College of New Jersey who is the coordinator
of a group called Immigrant Public Advocacy Coalition of Trenton. ''But when
these things start to happen, people become afraid of the police.''

Advocates and attorneys for the immigrants arrested in Mercer County say that in
the latest series of raids, federal agents identified themselves as police,
blurring the distinction between local and federal authorities. ''While it's
true that the agents are police enforcing a certain set of laws, they are not
what people in the community think of as police,'' said Tatiana Durbak, who
works with immigrants through Lutheran Social Ministries of New Jersey in
Trenton.

Although local police departments do not enforce immigration law, they do play
support roles during the raids, contributing to the tension between local police
and the immigrant community. For example, local officers direct traffic away
from the raid sites as a courtesy to their federal colleagues and to ensure
public safety.

While some police officials, like Joseph Santiago, director of the police
department in Trenton, have said that local forces have played no role in
federal raids, others say it is unreasonable to think that local law enforcement
can remain aloof.

For instance, Capt. Mark Emann of Princeton Township police department said that
while ''we don't want any of our residents to be apprehensive about calling the
police,'' his officers ''will have to be there'' when federal agents conduct a
raid.

''Certain members of the community don't want us involved in these
law-enforcement actions,'' Captain Emann said, ''but frankly, we have to be
there just to make sure passersby are safe.''

For their part, he said: ''Princeton Township police officers are not looking
for undocumented individuals. We have bigger things on our plate.''

One of those ''bigger things'' is a recent increase in gang activity at
Princeton High School and John Witherspoon Middle School. After several street
fights involving dozens of young blacks and Hispanics from the Princeton area
last year, local police described gang violence as their top priority.

But the two problems -- a large and now-fearful immigrant community and the
outbreak of gang violence -- may be related, says Mr. Martinez.

''I don't know if the raids have created more disrespect between African
American and Latino students, but this is something that has never happened
before,'' he said.

But Ms. Juega, of the Latin American Legal Defense and Education Fund, who works
with immigrants in Princeton, was more willing to assert the connection. ''There
is a link between the raid and the increase in violence against the Latinos in
our community,'' she said. ''There is no question about that. Some elements in
the community feel that it's open season on Latinos.''

As she explained: ''In Mercer County, we have gang issues among Latino young
people. We want these kids to communicate with us, but if they are afraid of the
police, they are not going to communicate.''

Mr. Martinez said that his group and others have tried to reopen a dialogue with
young Hispanics in Mercer County in the hope that they will not be driven
underground because of the raids. ''We tell them that if they need medical
services, they should not be afraid to go to the hospital,'' he said.

So far, he said, Mayor Palmer's executive order has helped reassure some of
Trenton's immigrants that they will not be arrested if they use government
services like police or hospitals. And advocates in Mercer County are pressing
other local governments to follow Mayor Palmer's lead. Both Princeton Borough
and Princeton Township have passed resolutions seeking to reassure immigrants
that they need not fear calling local police.

In the meantime, lawyers and other advocates are trying to put an end to the
raids, arguing that the government is targeting productive people who contribute
to the local economy and who represent no threat to public safety.

''It's very difficult to understand why the government is focusing on people who
are not a danger to the community,'' said Ryan Lilienthal, an immigration lawyer
from Princeton. ''Why not focus on criminals and terrorists?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hispanic immigrants in the Princeton area who live on one side
of Paul Robeson Place but work on the other believe they have reason to keep a
low profile. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Raul and Rosa Herrera, above, community activists who own Pelusa Travel, speak
with several jailed immigrants almost every day. Norma Garcia, below left, owns
the Lupita Mexica Grocery, a popular store in Princeton among Hispanic
immigrants. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 14, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite New Efforts Along Arizona Border, 'Serious Problems' Remain

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1406 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz.


Back in Washington, officials have promised to step up protection against
terrorists by securing the borders. But here along a dusty brown expanse of
desert, where Border Patrol agents struggle to stem the flow of illegal
immigrants by relying on tactics like horseback patrols, underground sensors and
helicopters, commanders have yet to achieve what they call ''operational
control.''

''We have had successes,'' said Kevin L. Stevens, the assistant patrol chief in
the Tucson sector. ''But we have some gapping areas out there, some serious
problems.''

The mission has gained new attention in Congress and at the White House because
of intelligence reports that operatives of Al Qaeda may try to use this desolate
stretch to enter the United States.

Although citing no evidence of such efforts, officials of the Homeland Security
Department recently said the agency worried that would-be terrorists might enter
the country by drifting in with illegal immigrants and drug smugglers.

''The southern border is literally under siege, and there is a real possibility
that terrorists, particularly Al Qaeda forces, could exploit this series of
holes in our law enforcement system,'' Representative Solomon P. Ortiz, Democrat
of Texas, said at a Congressional hearing.

The Border Patrol has intensified its enforcement efforts in the last year,
starting a campaign called the Arizona Border Control Initiative and making
surveillance with a ''substantial probability of apprehending terrorists'' a top
priority.

But Border Patrol agents interviewed in February in the Nogales region said
privately that the get-tough policy was an all-but-impossible expansion of a
nearly hopeless mission.

''Anyone with any determination can still make it into the United States,'' said
an agent who refused to give his name because he feared being fired. ''It is all
nonsense, all smoke and mirrors.''

No one can reliably estimate how many illegal immigrants cross the 6,000 miles
of United States border each year. It is certainly more than a million.

The only objective indicator is the number of arrests, which hit 491,771 in 2004
for just the 261 miles of border that make up the Tucson sector. That is up from
139,473 a decade ago, which explains why Arizona had more border captures in
2004 than California, New Mexico and Texas combined, and why special initiatives
have begun here.

The effort has had some obvious effects. Border communities like Nogales now
experience much less illegal traffic, as well as fewer border-related crimes,
the Border Patrol says.

Dozens of migrants still try to cross the border each day. But new digital video
cameras scan almost all the border just inside the cities, and sensors have been
built into towering steel border barriers that detect when someone climbs them
or tries to cut open a hole.

Cameras have even been placed in a sewer between Nogales on the Mexican side and
its sister city, Nogales, Ariz.

''We have taken the easiest routes away from them,'' Chief Stevens said. ''Gain,
maintain, expand. That's our strategy.''

The intense surveillance in the cities, backed by an increase in Border Patrol
agents in the Tucson sector, where the force has tripled to 2,170 in 10 years,
has apparently pushed the illegal movement elsewhere.

The Arizona initiative promised to take the enforcement campaign into the desert
-- enormous expanses of Indian reservations, environmental conservation areas,
cattle ranches and wild stretches of this big sky world. Pilotless aerial
vehicles, or drones, were leased, and more motion sensors were installed, as
were more sophisticated cameras.

This technology is the start of what the Bush administration hopes will turn
into a $2.5 billion investment over five years to install a new generation of
surveillance equipment, creating what it calls America's Shield Initiative.

But many frontline agents wonder whether all the spending makes much sense. In
the eight months that the drones circled, at a cost of $6 million, they
contributed to 1,294 captures, officials said, or less than 0.5 percent of the
sector total in the last fiscal year.

''It is a ridiculous waste of money,'' an agent said. ''There are so many more
practical items we need. More vehicles, more agents, even new bulletproof vests.
And yet they are spending millions on an unmanned reconnaissance vehicle simply
to generate good press.''

Some aerial reconnaissance is essential because it is only from the air that
border runners can be easily spotted. One afternoon in February, a Border Patrol
helicopter came upon 30 or so men and women out in the craggy, cactus-dotted
hills. Agent John L. Kimmel dipped his helicopter toward the ground, using a
loudspeaker and a barrage of noise, dust and bursts of air to nudge the suspects
from their hiding spots.

''Get up!'' he yelled in Spanish. ''Get up!''

Thanks to a quick response by an agent on the ground, most, if not all, of the
suspects were rounded up. But even before they were put in patrol wagons, some
were probably plotting their next crossings.

Martin Arrendo, 35, was caught while heading from his home in Irapuato, Mexico,
to his job in Sonoma County, Calif., where he earns $16 an hour pruning vines or
picking grapes, compared with $10 a day at home.

''As soon as they take me back, I will try again,'' Mr. Arrendo said.

Security officials have been concerned about Qaeda operatives trying to enter
the United States even before the Sept. 11 attacks.

The most specific alert about the southern border came last August, when the
Federal Bureau of Investigation warned that Adnan G. el-Shukrijumah, a Saudi
pilot sought by the United States as a high-ranking Qaeda leader and who was
believed to have examined the New York Stock Exchange for a possible attack, was
spotted in Honduras and might try to cross into the United States from Mexico.

In recent months, officials have reported a worrisome increase in the ''Other
Than Mexican'' category of arrests along the southwestern border. That number
has reached 41,360 this fiscal year, up more than 100 percent from the same
period in 2004. More than 90 percent of those non-Mexicans are from Latin
America, Border Patrol officials said.

But last fiscal year, 682 of those caught were designated ''special interest
aliens'' because they came from countries that have active terrorist presences.
In some cases, people from Middle Eastern countries, after paying smugglers to
help them, have adopted Mexican names in an effort to disguise their identities,
the director of the F.B.I., Robert S. Mueller III, told members of Congress in
early March.

''It is a tremendous concern to us,'' Mr. Mueller said. ''We're working together
to try to identify those smuggling organizations and take them out of
business.''

Border agents try to identify such migrants by listening carefully to their
accents, not an entirely reliable system. Suspects from the ''special interest''
countries, which include Egypt, Iraq and Saudi Arabia, are turned over to other
federal agencies for more questioning.

Ultimately, though, most of the non-Mexicans are released in the United States
pending deportation hearings and are typically never heard from again,
Representative Ortiz said.

Border Patrol officials say that as they intensify surveillance of the desert,
migrants and others trying to enter the United States are changing strategies,
moving through far southwestern Arizona and New Mexico. Smugglers have been
trying to build cross-border tunnels like one found under construction by agents
in Nogales in early March.

Various plans have been offered to secure the border. Congress passed a measure
late in 2004 that authorized doubling the number of Border Patrol officers in
five years, to 20,000, as well as increasing the number of beds for detainees
over the five years by 40,000. That would mean that fewer people awaiting
deportation hearings would need to be released.

President Bush wants to create a temporary worker program that would legalize
the presence of millions of immigrants, perhaps reducing illegal traffic.

For Border Patrol agents, the problem breeds palpable frustration. Chief Stevens
said that like soldiers in battle who do not always appreciate the nuances of a
wise general's strategy, they must understand that the key is keeping up the
fight.

Some agents have grave doubts.

''It seems quite obvious here,'' one said. ''We are not winning this war.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photso: One of 12 Border Patrol helicopters in use in the Tucson sector
rounding up a group of illegal immigrants near Sasabe, Ariz. Nearly 2,200 agents
are assigned to the sector. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York
Times)Chart/Photos: ''Watchful Eyes (and Cameras) of a High-Tech Border
Patrol''Hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested in a continuing
initiative to monitor the Arizona border for people crossing illegally.AGENTS,
Tucson sectorAs of Oct.1, start of each fiscal yearGraph tracks number of agents
in the Tucson sector since 1996.APPREHENSIONS, Tucson sectorFor fiscal
yearsGraph tracks number of apprehensions in the Tuscon sector since 1996.TOOLS
FOR DETECTION -- Under the new initiative, Border Patrol agents use several
means to monitor border areas for illegal immigrants. These are the main methods
agents use in the Tucson sector:Ground sensorsSeismic, magnetic and infrared
can detect movement and heat sources within 50 feet. About 2,200.Air
surveillance12 helicopters and three airplanes in use.Pilotless plane testingTwo
types of unmanned aerial vehicles have been tested in recent months.Remote video
camerasHighresolution and infrared
 scan a five-mile radius. 124 cameras on poles at 37 sites.Control room Agents
monitor data from ground sensors and cameras, remotely control the cameras and
dispatch field agents.Map of Arizona highlighting Tohono Oodham Indian
Reservation.(Source by United States Customs and Border Protection)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Garden City: Illegal Immigrants Readied For
Deportation

BYLINE: By Bruce Lambert (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 119 words


Forty-one illegal immigrants convicted of various crimes at home are being
deported to their native countries, federal and Nassau County law enforcement
officials announced yesterday. The authorities seized 25 immigrants yesterday,
in addition to 16 picked up in recent months. All were sent to a detention
center in Pike County, Pa., in preparation for deportation. Many were convicted
of sex crimes, including three rapists whose victims were 11, 12 and 14 years
old, the officials said. Most were from Latin America, the Caribbean and South
Asia and have ''no legal right to remain in the country,'' said Salvatore
Dalessandro, of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.
Bruce Lambert (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: More Border Agents

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 109 words


The Homeland Security Department will assign more than 500 additional patrol
agents to the Arizona border, saying they will help keep potential terrorists
and illegal immigrants from entering the country. The buildup is to be
officially announced tomorrow. About 155 agents will immediately be sent to
Arizona, said department officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity. More
than 370 additional agents, all of them trainees, will be permanently assigned
to the Arizona border throughout the year. Also, civilian volunteers with the
so-called Minuteman Project will begin on Friday a monthlong patrol against
immigrants crossing the border in Arizona.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 1, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wanted: Border Hoppers. And Some Excitement, Too.

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1279 words

DATELINE: TOMBSTONE, Ariz., March 31


Walter McCarty, an 82-year-old retired Marine sergeant, says he is looking for
adventure on the most porous part of the American border with Mexico. So, on
Thursday, he signed up for the Minuteman Project, a volunteer patrol in search
of furtive immigrants making the desert crossing into the United States.

''I hope to go out on patrols at night, find some illegals,'' said Mr. McCarty,
who had his .38-caliber pistol strapped to his leg as he stood outside the
citizen patrol's makeshift headquarters here in Tombstone, the town where Wyatt
Earp and Doc Holliday engaged in a shootout with the Clanton gang in 1881. ''I
need some excitement. And this is better than sitting at home all day watching
rattlesnakes crawl out of the den.''

Led by Chris Simcox, a 44-year-old former kindergarten teacher from Los Angeles
who accuses the federal government of turning a blind eye to the flow of illegal
immigrants, the Minuteman Project is an effort to post 1,000 volunteers across
23 miles of border. It has angered Hispanics and many business and government
leaders in this border county, aroused the Mexican government and prompted a
warning from President Bush against vigilante action.

Still, for days, an assortment of volunteers, most of them retirees, has been
trickling into the headquarters, on Toughnut Street, to get assignments that
will begin Saturday and last a month. Reporters from as far away as Europe and
Mexico have also descended.

Mr. Simcox said he would refuse to allow extremist groups to join his campaign
and promised a peaceful protest that he compared to a neighborhood watch
program. But the project has attracted support on Web sites of groups like Aryan
Nations, a white supremacist group that says the patrol ''is a call for action
on the part of all Aryan soldiers.''

Many of the volunteers are armed, which Mr. Simcox is not discouraging.

The pressure from the group, may be having an effect. On Wednesday, the
Department of Homeland Security said it would add 534 Border Patrol agents, an
increase of more than 20 percent, and double the air surveillance along the
Arizona border.

Although the federal authorities said the citizen volunteers had nothing to do
with the new show of force, they said the border had become increasingly
dangerous and chaotic, and a threat to national security. About 1,600 people a
day try to cross the Mexican border into Arizona.

''We have increased our boots on the ground, and we will gain operational
control of the weakest part of our border with Mexico,'' Robert C. Bonner, the
United States customs and border protection commissioner, said at a Tucson press
conference.

More than half of the 1.1 million people who were caught trying to cross the
Mexican border last year were apprehended in southern Arizona, a rugged,
sun-seared stretch of mountain and open desert that has become a gantlet for
human and drug smugglers, and a focal point of complaints about broken
boundaries. The citizen volunteers say they will track and report smugglers to
the Border Patrol. They say they are not vigilantes and will try to enforce a
strict ''no contact'' rule in approaching Mexicans.

''People are going to set up their lawn chairs, put on some sunscreen and start
looking for suspicious activity,'' Mr. Simcox said in an interview. ''We're
doing the job President Bush refuses to do.''

The project has increased tensions in an area along the border where Hispanics
and Anglos live side by side, and where immigration is both a fighting cause and
a business issue.

''It makes for a very bad situation in a community that does not want them
here,'' said Ray Borane, the mayor of nearby Douglas, an Arizona border town of
15,000 people. ''We are a proud, mostly Hispanic community. I'm afraid these
people who are showing up for the Minuteman Project have a lynch mob attitude.''

Border Patrol leaders, while expressing appreciation to the citizen group for
turning the spotlight on a dangerous stretch of desert, said they worried that
people with no background in law enforcement would get into trouble.

''Everyone who comes across that border is not some docile peasant,'' said T.J.
Bonner, president of the National Border Control Council, which represents
agents. ''This isn't a game of tag out there.''

In the last year, the Border Patrol has added hundred of agents, along with air
support, to little avail in southern Arizona. Top Homeland Security officials
who came to Arizona this week seemed particularly frustrated at the failure to
stem the tide of illegal immigration here, while it has slowed in other border
states.

Mr. Simcox said his group was born out of anger over the government's inability
to curb the flood of people.

''You move out here to your 40 acres of Shangri-La,'' he said, ''look out the
window, and what to do you see? Hordes of illegals running from the bushes.''

He has called for deployment of National Guard troops along the 1,950-mile
border.

Conservatives, like Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, and Bay
Buchanan, the sister of the former presidential candidate Patrick J. Buchanan,
are offering support and will address weekend rallies here, Mr. Simcox said.

On Tombstone's main street, where cowboys re-enact the shootout that put this
wind-raked desert town on the map, many residents said that they were upset with
the Minuteman Project, and that crime from illegal immigrants was not a prime
concern.

''I think Chris Simcox and his group have left something of a bad taste around
here,'' said Roger Duewell, a retired anthropologist who works as a make-believe
cowboy in staged shootings here. ''I think he's lost a lot of support and has
very few friends in town.''

Others disagreed. David Weik, who works in Tombstone by day but spends many
nights in camouflage gear tracking illegal immigrants, said Mr. Simcox was
''telling it like it is.''

Mr. Simcox has had an unusual political odyssey on his way to the Minuteman
Project. He once volunteered for the presidential campaign of Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, he said. He also said that as a teacher in a
private school in Los Angeles he was head of the diversity committee.

A week after the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Simcox was in Organ Pipe Cactus National
Monument, a desert wilderness on the Arizona-Mexico border, when he saw dozens
of Mexicans streaming across, he said. He left Los Angeles, and spent weeks
making observations in the desert.

He bought a weekly newspaper, The Tombstone Tumbleweed, and converted it into a
forum for his crusade. ''To get the media to pay attention, I decided I had to
own a piece of the media,'' he said.

He has since picked up a criminal record and many critics. Two years ago, he was
convicted of carrying a gun inside a National Park Service monument, a
misdemeanor. Mr. Simcox said he was set up.

In recent weeks, the Minuteman Project has been criticized by both Mr. Bush and
President Vicente Fox of Mexico. Mr. Fox has threatened to sue in international
courts if private groups try to detain Mexicans in the border area.

Although Mr. Simcox said he expected more than 1,000 volunteers, he might not
reach that number. He has told supporters they should stay at several area
recreational vehicle parks and a Bible college's dormitory. But people who run
those sites said that only about 150 people had indicated they were going to
take part.

People like Mr. McCarty, the retired marine, say they are here for the
distraction, and the thrill.

''I'm restless,'' Mr. McCarty said, leaning against an adobe fence in the midday
sun. ''I needed something to do before I drove my wife crazy.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chris Simcox, above, is the founder of the Minuteman Project,
which will patrol along the Mexican border. Walter McCarty, below left, has
signed up for it. David Weik, below right, has already been patrolling.
(Photographs by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)
 Border Patrol agents at a checkpoint for illegal immigrants yesterday, two
miles outside Tombstone, Ariz.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Are Bolstering Social Security With Billions

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

DATELINE: STOCKTON, Calif.


Since illegally crossing the Mexican border into the United States six years
ago, Angel Martinez has done backbreaking work, harvesting asparagus, pruning
grapevines and picking the ripe fruit. More recently, he has also washed trucks,
often working as much as 70 hours a week, earning $8.50 to $12.75 an hour.

Not surprisingly, Mr. Martinez, 28, has not given much thought to Social
Security's long-term financial problems. But Mr. Martinez -- who comes from the
state of Oaxaca in southern Mexico and hiked for two days through the desert to
enter the United States near Tecate, some 20 miles east of Tijuana --
contributes more than most Americans to the solvency of the nation's public
retirement system.

Last year, Mr. Martinez paid about $2,000 toward Social Security and $450 for
Medicare through payroll taxes withheld from his wages. Yet unlike most
Americans, who will receive some form of a public pension in retirement and will
be eligible for Medicare as soon as they turn 65, Mr. Martinez is not entitled
to benefits.

He belongs to a big club. As the debate over Social Security heats up, the
estimated seven million or so illegal immigrant workers in the United States are
now providing the system with a subsidy of as much as $7 billion a year.

While it has been evident for years that illegal immigrants pay a variety of
taxes, the extent of their contributions to Social Security is striking: the
money added up to about 10 percent of last year's surplus -- the difference
between what the system currently receives in payroll taxes and what it doles
out in pension benefits. Moreover, the money paid by illegal workers and their
employers is factored into all the Social Security Administration's projections.

Illegal immigration, Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, co-director of immigration studies
at New York University, noted sardonically, could provide ''the fastest way to
shore up the long-term finances of Social Security.''

It is impossible to know exactly how many illegal immigrant workers pay taxes.
But according to specialists, most of them do. Since 1986, when the Immigration
Reform and Control Act set penalties for employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants, most such workers have been forced to buy fake ID's to get a job.

Currently available for about $150 on street corners in just about any immigrant
neighborhood in California, a typical fake ID package includes a green card and
a Social Security card. It provides cover for employers, who, if asked, can
plausibly assert that they believe all their workers are legal. It also means
that workers must be paid by the book -- with payroll tax deductions.

IRCA, as the immigration act is known, did little to deter employers from hiring
illegal immigrants or to discourage them from working. But for Social Security's
finances, it was a great piece of legislation.

Starting in the late 1980's, the Social Security Administration received a flood
of W-2 earnings reports with incorrect -- sometimes simply fictitious -- Social
Security numbers. It stashed them in what it calls the ''earnings suspense
file'' in the hope that someday it would figure out whom they belonged to.

The file has been mushrooming ever since: $189 billion worth of wages ended up
recorded in the suspense file over the 1990's, two and a half times the amount
of the 1980's.

In the current decade, the file is growing, on average, by more than $50 billion
a year, generating $6 billion to $7 billion in Social Security tax revenue and
about $1.5 billion in Medicare taxes.

In 2002 alone, the last year with figures released by the Social Security
Administration, nine million W-2's with incorrect Social Security numbers landed
in the suspense file, accounting for $56 billion in earnings, or about 1.5
percent of total reported wages.

Social Security officials do not know what fraction of the suspense file
corresponds to the earnings of illegal immigrants. But they suspect that the
portion is significant.

''Our assumption is that about three-quarters of other-than-legal immigrants pay
payroll taxes,'' said Stephen C. Goss, Social Security's chief actuary, using
the agency's term for illegal immigration.

Other researchers say illegal immigrants are the main contributors to the
suspense file. ''Illegal immigrants account for the vast majority of the
suspense file,'' said Nick Theodore, the director of the Center for Urban
Economic Development at the University of Illinois at Chicago. ''Especially its
growth over the 1990's, as more and more undocumented immigrants entered the
work force.''

Using data from the Census Bureau's current population survey, Steven Camarota,
director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, an advocacy group in
Washington that favors more limits on immigration, estimated that 3.8 million
households headed by illegal immigrants generated $6.4 billion in Social
Security taxes in 2002.

A comparative handful of former illegal immigrant workers who have obtained
legal residence have been able to accredit their previous earnings to their new
legal Social Security numbers. Mr. Camarota is among those opposed to granting a
broad amnesty to illegal immigrants, arguing that, among other things, they
might claim Social Security benefits and put further financial stress on the
system.

The mismatched W-2's fit like a glove on illegal immigrants' known geographic
distribution and the patchwork of jobs they typically hold. An audit found that
more than half of the 100 employers filing the most earnings reports with false
Social Security numbers from 1997 through 2001 came from just three states:
California, Texas and Illinois. According to an analysis by the Government
Accountability Office, about 17 percent of the businesses with inaccurate W-2's
were restaurants, 10 percent were construction companies and 7 percent were farm
operations.

Most immigration helps Social Security's finances, because new immigrants tend
to be of working age and contribute more than they take from the system. A
simulation by Social Security's actuaries found that if net immigration ran at
1.3 million a year instead of the 900,000 in their central assumption, the
system's 75-year funding gap would narrow to 1.67 percent of total payroll, from
1.92 percent -- savings that come out to half a trillion dollars, valued in
today's money.

Illegal immigrants help even more because they will never collect benefits.
According to Mr. Goss, without the flow of payroll taxes from wages in the
suspense file, the system's long-term funding hole over 75 years would be 10
percent deeper.

Yet to immigrants, the lack of retirement benefits is just part of the package
of hardship they took on when they decided to make the trek north. Tying vines
in a vineyard some 30 miles north of Stockton, Florencio Tapia, 20, from
Guerrero, along Mexico's Pacific coast, has no idea what the money being
withheld from his paycheck is for. ''I haven't asked,'' Mr. Tapia said.

For illegal immigrants, Social Security numbers are simply a tool needed to work
on this side of the border. Retirement does not enter the picture.

''There will be a moment when I won't be able to continue working,'' Mr.
Martinez acknowledges. ''But that's many years off.''

Mario Avalos, a naturalized Nicaraguan immigrant who prepares income tax returns
for many workers in the area, including immigrants without legal papers,
observes that many older workers return home to Mexico. ''Among my clients,'' he
said, ''I can't recall anybody over 60 without papers.''

No doubt most illegal immigrants would prefer to avoid Social Security
altogether. As part of its efforts to properly assign the growing pile of
unassigned wages, Social Security sends about 130,000 letters a year to
employers with large numbers of mismatched pay statements.

Though not an intended consequence of these so-called no-match letters, in many
cases employers who get them dismiss the workers affected. Or the workers --
fearing that immigration authorities might be on their trail -- just leave.

Last February, for instance, discrepancies in Social Security numbers put an end
to the job of Minerva Ortega, 25, from Zacatecas, in northern Mexico, who worked
in the cheese department at a warehouse for Mike Campbell & Associates, a
distributor for Trader Joe's, a popular discount food retailer with a large
operation in California.

The company asked dozens of workers to prove that they had cleared up or were in
the process of clearing up the ''discrepancy between the information on our
payroll related to your employment and the S.S.A.'s records.'' Most could not.

Ms. Ortega said about 150 workers lost their jobs. In a statement, Mike Campbell
said that it did not fire any of the workers, but Robert Camarena, a company
official, acknowledged that many left.

Ms. Ortega is now looking for work again. She does not want to go back to the
fields, so she is holding out for a better-paid factory job. Whatever work she
finds, though, she intends to go on the payroll with the same Social Security
number she has now, a number that will not jibe with federal records.

With this number, she will continue paying taxes. Last year she paid about
$1,200 in Social Security taxes, matched by her employer, on an income of
$19,000.

She will never see the money again, she realizes, but at least she will have a
job in the United States.

''I don't pay much attention,'' Ms. Ortega said. ''I know I don't get any
benefit.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illegal immigrants who worked in a vineyard in Clarksburg,
Calif., paid taxes for Social Security and Medicare, but will not get any
benefits.
 Packages of false papers allow illegal immigrants to get employment and pay
taxes, enriching the Social Security fund for other employees. (Photographs by
Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. C7)Graph: ''Wages in Limbo''Earnings recorded
under inaccurate Social Security numbers are placed in an earning suspense file
in hopes of eventually finding out who should get credit for them. Since 1986,
when the Immigration Reform and Control Act was created to set penalties for
employers who hire illegal immigrants, the file has  grown rapidly.Graph tracks
Wages recorded under inaccurate Social Security numbers since the 1940's.(Source
by Government Accountability Office, Social Security Administration.)(pg. C7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Say Immigrant Policy Is Hindrance

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1428 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 6


Carlos Barrera, an illegal immigrant, went on a rampage in Hollywood five months
ago, the police said. In the span of two hours, they said, he mugged three
people, burglarized two apartments and pushed his way into an apartment, where
he tried to rape a woman in front of her 5-year-old daughter.

Mr. Barrera, a Mexican, had been deported four years ago after serving time for
robbery, drugs and burglary. He had made his way back into the United States,
and although he had been stopped twice for traffic violations, the police were
prohibited from reporting him to the immigration authorities.

Almost any Los Angeles police officer will say that some of the most cutthroat
criminals here are illegal immigrants. And yet, the police complain that they
cannot use immigration status to apprehend a convicted criminal who was ordered
deported.

Known as a sanctuary policy, the police rules here prohibit officers from
inquiring about someone's immigration status with the federal authorities unless
that person is being charged with a crime.

The policy, adopted in 1979, was intended to protect immigrants from harassment
and to encourage them to use public services without fear of deportation.
Immigrants can enroll their children in schools, get health care and -- perhaps
most significant for the police -- come forward when they witness a crime.

But the policy also provides a safe harbor for criminals.

''You are so concerned with the lambs, you don't see the wolves,'' said Capt.
Charlie Beck, commanding officer of the Rampart District, a seven-square-mile
area in central Los Angeles that the police say is home to 30,000 gang members.
At least 1,000 of them, Captain Beck estimates, were deported after committing
violent crimes, but returned.

Nationally, 80,000 to 100,000 illegal immigrants who have been convicted of
serious crimes walk freely on the streets, federal officials said. But the
problem appears most acute in Los Angeles County, where 30,000 illegal immigrant
criminals live among the nearly 2 million illegal immigrants. Several other
cities, including Chicago, Houston and New York, have sanctuary policies, though
not always as broad as the one in Los Angeles. Officials here say they are
working on language that rethinks Special Order 40, which prohibits officers
from initiating discussion ''to discover the alien status of a person.'' They
would like to allow officers to ask their supervisors to check the immigration
status of suspects believed to be felons illegally living in the United States.

Along with easing the sanctuary rules, some officers here favor the creation of
a national database of criminal illegal immigrants that would allow the checking
of names during random stops. ''It's easier to track your driving record than an
alien's criminal history,'' said Officer Frank Flores, a gang expert with the
Los Angeles Police Department.

In New York, the policy on immigration has evolved over the years. In 2003, the
city expanded its list of information that could not be reported to the federal
authorities to include sexual orientation, income tax records and welfare
assistance along with immigration status. The policy generally applies to law
enforcement officers, except in cases involving criminal activity and terrorism.

As a practical matter, the policy is routinely violated, said Margaret McHugh,
director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an advocacy organization and
umbrella group for more than 100 agencies serving newcomers. Ms. McHugh cited
cases in which a traffic stop or minor police investigation had led directly to
deportation for noncriminals whose civil immigration violations had been added
to the National Criminal Information Center database by order of Attorney
General John Ashcroft in 2002.

''The city is trying to have it both ways,'' Ms. McHugh said.

Officials in some cities, particularly those worried about the spread of gangs,
say they are working more closely with immigration officers.

A nationwide roundup last month apprehended 100 members of the Mara Salvatrucha
street gang, born in the Rampart District and now about 50,000 strong. Most of
those arrested had illegally re-entered the country after being deported for
crimes like murder and burglary. Some had escaped deportation, having fallen
through the cracks in an overburdened immigration system.

''It was more P.R. than anything,'' Capt. Michael Downing, the Hollywood
commander, said of the federal sweep. ''The feds don't have the resources to
handle the problem.''

A litany of offenses has been attributed to illegal immigrants who were ordered
deported for past crimes. Aneceto Reyes, who was deported to Mexico after
serving time in prison, returned and killed a man for a jacket, said Officer
Flores. Ms. Reyes's cousin Jaime Reyes, who had also been deported, was arrested
in a carjacking about three months ago.

Officials said the two were examples of what was wrong with the sanctuary laws.
Although the Reyeses had contact with the police after returning to the United
States, they were arrested only after they had committed serious crimes, the
police said.

Congress enacted a law in 1996 that was intended to make it easier to deport
criminals and that stiffened penalties. An illegal immigrant who re-enters the
United States after a conviction for serious crimes like murder, rape, narcotics
and theft faces 10 years in prison for a second offense and 20 years for a
third.

Still, Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, said there was
little will in Washington to step up federal efforts to find criminals who are
here illegally.

''There is no sieve to separate the benign from those who want to blow you
away,'' Mr. Tancredo said. Opponents of tougher rules include the Mexican
government and employers wanting cheap labor.

''It could lead to abuses of profiling and surveillance,'' said Greg Simons, the
director of the Immigration and Citizenship Project for the Coalition for Humane
Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. ''What if you are a U.S. citizen? What if
you've committed a crime and paid your debt? You want people to trust the
police, not fear them.''

According to a report issued in 2000 by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department, 23 percent of the inmates in the county jail system the previous
year would have been eligible for deportation as illegal immigrants. But because
of short federal staffing, only 3.2 percent were ever identified for
deportation.

''How can we expect people to respect the law when we can't enforce our
immigration laws against violent criminals?'' Sheriff Lee Baca, of Los Angeles
County, asked. Sheriff Baca recently persuaded officials from Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and the county Board of Supervisors to train county workers
to conduct immigration interviews in the jails. That met with opposition from
those who said it could lead to racial profiling.

''There is no doubt that the average immigrant wants a better life and wants the
violent criminal deported,'' said Silvia Saucedo, a lawyer and former Los
Angeles police commissioner. ''But once the police use immigration status only,
what happens to due process, probable cause?''

Ms. Saucedo added: ''We're stretched so thin, it's impossible to have the
L.A.P.D. trained in federal procedures. It's not the business of the
department.''

Even if cities and states amended their policies to allow the police to work
with federal officials against the most violent criminals, the immigration
department would not be able to accommodate them. There are only 79 agents
nationwide dedicated to tracking down fugitives. The immigration jails and
courts are so strained that people are often given summonses to appear in court
-- orders that agents call ''run sheets.''

Last month, immigration agents working on the fugitive squad here were tracking
Silvio Ruiz, a Nicaraguan who had served two years in prison and was ordered
deported. He was back, living in a gang-infested neighborhood, collecting
worker's compensation from the state.

''The frustrating thing is if we caught them all today, where would we put
them?'' said Virginia Kice, an immigration department spokeswoman. There are
1,400 immigration detention beds in the Los Angeles district.

Detective Johnny Smith, a gang expert with the Los Angeles police, wondered how
the American dream fared with illegal criminals freely roaming the streets.
''The Statue of Liberty says, give me your tired, your weak, your poor,'' Mr.
Smith said. ''It doesn't say, give me your murderers, rapists and drug
dealers.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Officers questioned two men in Los Angeles but did not find the
illegal immigrant they were looking for.
 The police arrested an immigrant with a record of spousal abuse. (Photographs
by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 9, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: New Mexico: Illegal Immigrants Arrested

BYLINE: By Joseph Kolb (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 117 words


Thirty-nine illegal Mexican immigrants were arrested after they were found
crammed into four motel rooms in Las Cruces, the authorities said. It was the
second major roundup of illegal immigrants in the city after the arrest of a
Mexican teenager, Rolando Cervantes-Hernandez, last week. Mr.
Cervantes-Hernandez, 19, was stopped by Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents while driving a vehicle containing 11 illegal immigrants. A subsequent
investigation led to the discovery of 53 other immigrants in a trailer. Mr.
Cervantes-Hernandez was charged with smuggling and will be prosecuted by the
United States attorney's office in Albuquerque. The immigrants were returned to
Mexico.   Joseph Kolb (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Smuggler Faces Death Penalty In New Trial

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 11


A truck driver convicted last month for his role in the deaths of 19 illegal
immigrants in a sweltering sealed trailer will face the death penalty again in a
new trial, prosecutors said on Monday.

A federal jury found the driver, Tyrone M. Williams, 34, guilty of transporting
illegal immigrants. But it deadlocked on 20 other charges that could have
resulted in a death sentence in the nation's deadliest immigrant-smuggling
incident.

In a hearing on Monday, prosecutors told Judge Vanessa D. Gilmore of Federal
District Court that they would retry Mr. Williams on a conspiracy charge that
could carry a death sentence.

Government lawyers have not decided whether to ask Judge Gilmore to retry Mr.
Williams, an immigrant from Jamaica who lives in Schenectady, N.Y., on 19 other
counts that also could carry a death sentence.

Mr. Williams was convicted on those counts last month, but jurors did not answer
questions about his level of responsibility that could have led to a death
sentence.

Judge Gilmore told prosecutors that she considered the matter closed, meaning
that Mr. Williams faced up to 20 years for each of the 38 counts on which he was
convicted. But she invited prosecutors to try changing her mind.

Mr. Williams picked up at least 75 immigrants near the Mexican border on May 13,
2003, and abandoned them in the sweltering trailer of his 18-wheeler in
Victoria, Tex., 90 miles southwest of Houston. He was paid $7,500 to make the
trip.

The trailer had a refrigeration unit that was not turned on, and survivors told
the jury that the desperate immigrants tried to claw holes in the truck and
disabled the back lights to signal their distress to other drivers.

Mr. Williams abandoned the immigrants when he discovered they were dying,
according to testimony in the trial.

Three accused co-conspirators are scheduled for trial on Oct. 17. If prosecutors
decide to pursue the death penalty against them, Judge Gilmore said Mr. Williams
would be tried with them.

If Mr. Williams remains the only one of 14 defendants in the case to face death,
his trial will be scheduled for Dec. 5.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: Civil Rights Violated?

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 102 words


A federal prosecutor has asked the Justice Department to check for civil rights
violations by an Army reservist who held seven illegal immigrants at gunpoint at
a rest stop last month. Paul Charlton, the United States attorney, said he made
the request after an initial review found no federal laws that applied. The
Maricopa County attorney's office decided not to prosecute the reservist, Sgt.
Patrick Haab, in the April 10 incident, which took place off Interstate 8 in
Sentinel. Sergeant Haab, 24, says he acted in self-defense, drawing a revolver
that he was wearing legally to stop men who were rushing him.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Minutemen' End Unofficial Border Patrol, but Plan to Return

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: NACO, Ariz., April 30


Volunteers recruited over the Internet to monitor illegal immigration along a
stretch of Arizona's border ended their monthlong campaign this weekend.

Members of the Minuteman Project hailed the program as a success, and organizers
said they planned to expand the mission to the other states along the Mexican
border and to parts of the Canadian border.

''This could not have been done without all of you,'' Chris Simcox, a
co-organizer of the project, told some 150 volunteers and supporters gathered
Saturday at a church in Palominas, Ariz. ''You did this together -- you the
people.''

Organizers said nearly 900 volunteers, some of them armed, had spent at least
one eight-hour shift in the field through Friday, working mostly stationary
patrols along a 23-mile stretch of border in Cochise County. The final
eight-hour shift was scheduled to end at 6 a.m. Sunday.

Organizers said volunteers' calls to the Border Patrol resulted in the arrests
of 335 illegal immigrants. Organizers had ordered volunteers not to detain any
illegal border crossers they encountered, and no major incidents were reported.

Critics of the program, including Border Patrol officials, have said that it was
little more than a nuisance that attracted significant attention from the media
and civil rights groups watching volunteers for possible rights violations.

President Bush expressed his opposition to ''vigilantes,'' and many people on
the Mexican side of the border referred to the volunteers as ''migrant
hunters.''

But Jim Gilchrist, a founder of the program, said the group's efforts brought
nationwide attention to the problem of illegal immigration. Mr. Gilchrist said,
however, that unless the work continued, ''it's going to be viewed as just a
monthlong dog-and-pony show.''

Mike Minatrea, a ham radio operator who was stationed near Naco for a week with
his wife, Kristi, said the Minuteman Project ''has told the rest of America what
they can do to get something done'' -- protest in a calm, orderly and productive
fashion.

Ed Whitbred, a supervisor for the project, said it showed that the American
people had the will and the desire to secure the border even if the government
did not.

''I'm afraid we're on a slippery slope if we don't solve this problem,'' Mr.
Whitbred said, referring to illegal immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Schwarzenegger's Star Dipping As Californians Feel Its Singe

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 30


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger made a prediction in January in a speech proposing
changes to the way public pensions are managed in California, the state budget
is balanced, legislative districts are drawn and teachers are paid.

''The special interests will run TV ads calling me cruel and heartless,'' Mr.
Schwarzenegger, a Republican, told lawmakers. ''They will organize protests out
in front of the Capitol. They will try to say I don't understand the
consequences of these decisions.''

Mr. Schwarzenegger's prediction about his detractors has come true in every
respect, but so has something that he did not foresee four months ago: the
larger-than-life governor has been brought down to size. His popularity has
plummeted, and he has retreated on some proposals, like the ones on public
employees' pensions and redistricting.

Now his Democratic opponents ''see blood in the water,'' as one Democrat
characterized the situation, and they are taking on Mr. Schwarzenegger with new
determination.

On Friday, they seized upon statements he made praising the so-called Minutemen
volunteers in Arizona who patrol the Mexican border for illegal immigrants.
President Bush has described the volunteers as vigilantes, but Mr.
Schwarzenegger said he would welcome them in California because ''our government
cannot secure the borders and keep our country protected.''

Art Torres, the chairman of the state Democratic Party, accused Mr.
Schwarzenegger of exploiting fears about illegal immigration, a historically
divisive subject in California, to divert attention from his problems as
governor and to appeal to his conservative supporters.

''We don't need an Austrian Minuteman,'' Mr. Torres said in a reference to Mr.
Schwarzenegger's native country.

Two opinion polls released this week showed that the governor's approval rating
had dropped below 50 percent for the first time since he took office in November
2003. The surveys reflected months of protests against Mr. Schwarzenegger by
nurses, teachers, police officers and other public employees.

''The mainstream has turned on him,'' said Rose Ann DeMoro, executive director
of the California Nurses Association, whose members have hounded Mr.
Schwarzenegger because of his opposition to a state law that requires more
nurses in hospitals.

The governor has publicly brushed aside the slide in the polls, saying Thursday
on Sean Hannity's radio show that his critics ''have not been successful at all
with their mission because taking the poll numbers down didn't make me more
vulnerable.'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said he would continue to collect signatures to
qualify several of his proposals for a vote in November, no matter the political
toll, and he did so on Saturday at a diner in Lancaster.

''They're lying to the people,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said in the radio interview.
''And they're trying to convince the people that my reforms are no good because
they feel that that will be destructive to them because they want to keep the
power, and they want to keep spending money.''

Mr. Schwarzenegger's famed charisma continues to play well with many
Californians. But even with the benefits of his Hollywood celebrity, which also
gives him a friendly platform on talk radio and other news media, the new polls
reveal that Mr. Schwarzenegger is not immune to the fallout of a sustained
public beating.

Some of his Republican allies acknowledge as much, though they insist there is
no sense of panic.

''Sometimes you go through turbulent air, and sometimes smooth air,'' said State
Senator Abel Maldonado, a Republican, who is pushing some of the governor's
education proposals in the Legislature. ''Right now, it's no secret there's some
turbulent air.''

Several weeks ago, Mr. Schwarzenegger suspended his plan to place before the
voters a measure that would have converted the state pension system to private
accounts. His decision came after law enforcement groups mobilized against the
proposal because it would have deprived public employees of death and disability
benefits, something Mr. Schwarzenegger said he never intended.

This week, the governor backed off an important demand in his redistricting
proposal, telling a town hall meeting that its timing ''can be worked out.''
Previously he had insisted that the new districts, which he wants drawn by
retired judges, be in place for next year's elections.

While each of the protesting groups has a different gripe with Mr.
Schwarzenegger, they have united in depicting him as an uncaring, partisan
Republican doing the bidding of big business. According to the polls, the
message seems to have resonated with Democrats and independents, who together
accounted for the sharp decline in Mr. Schwarzenegger's standing.

''Voters are concerned and frustrated that the governor may becoming another one
of the Sacramento politicians, rather than the reformer that they were hoping
that he would be,'' said Douglas Johnson, consulting fellow at the Rose
Institute of State and Local Government at Claremont McKenna College, which
conducted one of the polls.

In a poll by the Public Policy Institute of California, a nonpartisan group in
San Francisco, there was a 20 percentage point drop in Mr. Schwarzenegger's
approval rating among registered voters, to 40 percent in April from 60 percent
in January. By comparison, Gov. Gray Davis, who was removed from office in a
recall election, had a 62 percent approval rating in a poll taken two years into
his first term.

One practical effect of Mr. Schwarzenegger's slump has been to renew the intense
partisanship in Sacramento that he had managed to subdue in his first year in
office, in large part on the strength of his stardom and efforts by both parties
to put the recall of Governor Davis behind them.

After working last year with the Democratic-led Legislature to pass several
proposals, relations went into a deep freeze upon the unveiling of his ''Year of
Reform'' in the January speech.

Many Democrats saw the proposals, which included merit-based pay for teachers,
as an assault on organized labor. His decision not to restore $2 billion in
education financing from last year further infuriated the California Teachers
Association, which with other groups has been broadcasting television and radio
advertisements featuring PTA members accusing Mr. Schwarzenegger of retreating
on promises to schools.

In one advertisement, several parents are featured talking about their
disappointment.

''That's money our schools need to reduce class sizes and keep quality
teachers,'' one parent says.

''The governor's always running around talking about reform,'' another parent
says.

The first parent replies, ''But to me, it sounds a lot more like breaking his
word on education.''

Roger Salazar, a spokesman for the California Education Coalition, which
includes the teachers' union and other school groups opposed to Mr.
Schwarzenegger's spending on education, said the coalition has spent about $4
million or $5 million on the commercials. Mr. Schwarzenegger's aides estimate
the total is closer to $15 million, far more, they say, than the advertisements
some of Mr. Schwarzenegger's supporters have begun broadcasting in response.

The depth of organized labor's rage has startled some Democratic lawmakers. The
Assembly speaker, Fabian Nunez, a Democrat from Los Angeles, said some union
leaders, whom he would not identify, have insisted that he refuse to meet with
the governor because they want to ''take him on and go all the way to elect a
Democratic governor'' in 2006.

''The state is in political disarray,'' Mr. Nunez said. ''There is a great
divide between Democrats and Republicans. I don't think it is good for
California that we continue on this war path.''

Mr. Nunez said the governor could go a long way toward building bridges by
dropping his threat to call a special election in November that would place his
remaining proposals on redistricting, a state spending cap and teachers' pay
before the voters. Mr. Schwarzenegger is expected to submit the signatures on at
least two of the measures to the secretary of state next week.

Mr. Schwarzenegger's chief of staff, Pat Clarey, said the threat of a special
election had been instrumental in getting the Democrats to the negotiating
table. ''The deadline is coming up quickly, and I think everybody is trying to
see if we can have some honest discussions,'' Ms. Clarey said.

Leon E. Panetta, a former congressman from California and White House chief of
staff under President Bill Clinton, said Democrats would be unwise to
underestimate Mr. Schwarzenegger's ability to rebound from his current troubles.

Mr. Panetta, a Democrat, described the governor as ''part of the gridlock'' but
suggested that state lawmakers were likely to lose any public blame game with
him.

''While there is blood in the water, he's still the predominant political figure
in California,'' said Mr. Panetta, who is co-chairman of a committee created by
Mr. Schwarzenegger to retain military bases in the state. ''I don't think the
Democrats can forget one thing: If the Legislature had been on the recall ballot
with Gray Davis, they would have all been thrown out.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California on Friday with Richard
J. Riordan, left, the state's secretary of education, and Alan D. Bersin, right,
whom the governor has picked to succeed Mr. Riordan next month. (Photo by
Armando Arorizo/European Pressphoto Agency)
Months of protests against Mr. Schwarzenegger have included demonstrations by
nurses and students. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A18)Chart: ''Losing Favor''Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger's approval rating has dropped in California, and recent
polls show wide partisan differences as he holds on to his political
base.Jan.APPROVAL: 60%DISAPPROVAL: 33AprilAPPROVAL: 40%DISAPPROVAL:
50(April)RepublicansAPPROVAL: 71%DISAPPROVAL: 20WhitesAPPROVAL: 50%DISAPPROVAL:
40DemocratsAPPROVAL: 24%DISAPPROVAL: 68BlacksAPPROVAL: 20%DISAPPROVAL:
72LatinosAPPROVAL: 25%DISAPPROVAL: 69(Source by Public Policy Institute of
California)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Payments to Help Hospitals Care for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 9


The Bush administration announced on Monday that it would start paying hospitals
and doctors for providing emergency care to illegal immigrants.

The money, totaling $1 billion, will be available for services provided from
Tuesday through September 2008. Congress provided the money as part of the 2003
law that expanded Medicare to cover prescription drugs, but the new payments
have nothing to do with the Medicare program.

Members of Congress from border states, like Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of
Arizona, had sought the money. They said the treatment of illegal immigrants
imposed a huge financial burden on many hospitals, which are required to provide
emergency care to patients who need it, regardless of their immigration status
or ability to pay.

Under the new program, hospitals are supposed to ask patients for certain
documents to substantiate claims for payment. But Dr. Mark B. McClellan,
administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said a hospital
should not directly ask a patient ''if he or she is an undocumented alien.''

Instead, Dr. McClellan said, hospitals can try to establish a patient's status
by analyzing the answers to ''indirect questions'': Is the person eligible for
Medicaid? (If so, payment is generally not available under the new program.) Has
the person reported a foreign place of birth? Does the person have a
border-crossing card like those issued to Mexican citizens? Does the person have
a foreign passport, a foreign driver's license or a foreign identification card?

The Bush administration abandoned a proposal that would have required many
hospitals to ask patients if they were United States citizens or legal
immigrants.

''In no circumstances are hospitals required to ask people about their
citizenship status,'' Dr. McClellan said on Monday.

Hospital executives and immigrant rights groups had said such questions would
deter illegal immigrants from seeking hospital care and could lead to serious
public health problems by increasing the spread of communicable diseases.

Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino
civil rights group, said the new requirements were an improvement over the
original proposal but would still discourage some immigrants from seeking
treatment.

''Hospitals will have to ask confusing, highly technical questions about
immigration documents,'' Ms. Munoz said. ''That will create a perception in the
Latino community that you have to show your papers in order to get emergency
care. That's a misperception, but it may be enough to deter some people from
seeking care.''

The new program is run by the Department of Health and Human Services. Dr.
McClellan said the department would not provide information about illegal
immigrants to law enforcement officials for use in ''routine civil immigration
proceedings.'' But in rare cases, he said, the information may be used in
criminal investigations.

The largest allocations this fiscal year are going to California, which will
receive $70.8 million; Texas, $46 million; Arizona, $45 million; New York, $12.3
million; Illinois, $10.3 million; Florida, $8.7 million; and New Mexico, $5.1
million.

Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, said she was pleased that the
money was being made available, even as she called for new efforts to ''secure
our borders.''

Before tapping the new program, hospitals and doctors must seek payment from
other sources, like Medicaid and private insurers.

The Bush administration emphasized that hospitals ''should not single out
individuals who look or sound foreign for closer scrutiny.''

''Hospital and other provider personnel may not selectively screen individuals
regarding their eligibility status on the basis of race, color or national
origin,'' the guidelines say.

Jan Emerson, a spokeswoman for the California Hospital Association, said
California hospitals provided $500 million a year in emergency care for illegal
immigrants, seven times the amount of the federal grant. But Ms. Emerson
welcomed the new assistance, saying: ''This is a highly symbolic first step. The
federal government is finally acknowledging that it has a responsibility to pay
for health care provided to illegal immigrants.''

Under the guidelines, hospitals are expected to make photocopies of documents
indicating a patient's immigration status. They will not ordinarily have to
submit such documents to the government, but must keep them for review by
federal auditors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: Limits On Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 81 words


The Legislature approved a bill that would prohibit illegal immigrants from
attending adult education classes, receiving child care assistance and having
in-state tuition status at public universities. Supporters say the restrictions
are needed to discourage illegal immigration because of the huge health care and
education costs for immigrants and their families. Opponents say the measure is
unfair because it does nothing to confront employers who turn to immigrants for
cheap labor.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Early Heat Wave Kills 12 Illegal Immigrants in the Arizona Desert

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 960 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, May 25


The shades were drawn against the blistering sun in a room at the Southside
Presbyterian Church, where six immigrants, survivors of punishing treks across
the desert that took at least 12 lives in the last few days across Arizona, lay
on cots and pondered their luck.

''I'm never going through that again,'' said Jose Jacinto, 20, from Michoacan,
Mexico, who had crossed the border clandestinely in a group of 14 people trying
to blend into the United States work force, like countless others every day. ''I
got really scared out there. Maybe next time, it'll kill me.''

Somewhere in the scorching expanse of the Sonoran Desert, two people in Mr.
Jacinto's group, ages 15 and 17, died before his eyes, he said. Mr. Jacinto
recalled that he fainted of dehydration three times.

''I couldn't walk any more,'' he said in Spanish, as a ceiling fan struggled to
shake the overbearing heat above him. ''And my eyes got foggy. I couldn't see.
But I'm better now.''

Mr. Jacinto, a father of three children back home, could be considered
fortunate. The Border Patrol knows of 12 immigrants who died in the last week as
the desert temperatures ran as high as 115 degrees, and their deaths could be a
harbinger of a summer of similar fatalities.

''It's definitely quite a lot,'' said Andrea Zortman, a Border Patrol
spokeswoman for the Tucson sector, which covers much of the state, including 261
miles of border with Mexico. ''But we've done a lot, hopefully, to mitigate the
deaths.''

Since Oct. 1, when the agency's annual reporting period began, 72 deaths have
been reported in the Arizona desert. There would have been many more, Ms.
Zortman said, if the patrol had not increased its medical emergency teams, many
of whom conduct rescues by helicopter.

One of the 12 dead last weekend was a pregnant woman, Marcela Cruz-Gonzalez, 24,
according to a news release from the Yuma County Sheriff's Office. As Ms.
Gonzalez became weaker and weaker in the desert heat near Yuma, the report said,
her husband asked the two smugglers leading their group of 18 people to lend him
a cellphone to call for medical assistance. The smugglers refused, the husband
told the authorities.

''They told them they should return to Mexico,'' Joe Brigman, a Border Patrol
spokesman for the Yuma sector, said. ''They were basically abandoned.''

The husband left his wife to seek help and was spotted by a Border Patrol team.
They took him back to the site, where they found Ms. Cruz-Gonzalez dead.

''It's a bad deal,'' Officer Brigman said. ''One phone call could have saved her
life.''

Given the size of the desert, it is universally understood that many illegal
immigrants die in the heat without being found. As the summer takes hold, the
problem becomes acute.

''This is crunch time,'' said Sue Goodman, a founder of Humane Borders, a
five-year-old organization that builds and stocks water stations for immigrants
in the desert.

The group, using a combination of sources, also tracks immigrant deaths, which
have markedly increased in recent years. The groups says the total reached at
least 190 across Arizona in the 2003-4 fiscal year.

Ms. Goodman, who drove to two water stations near Three Points, 23 miles west of
here, on Wednesday to replenish stocks, said a common misperception since the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks was that terrorists hid among the immigrants.

''I'm out there every day, and what I see is a 23-year-old man and his wife and
their 2-year-old son, and they're coming here to work,'' she said. ''They're
going to pick cherries in eastern Washington. They're shoveling manure in
Kansas, or they're landscaping yards on Long Island. Why should people die when
they're on their way to work for us? We're willing to make them walk through a
deathtrap to get to work.''

The increase in patrols since Sept. 11 -- not only by federal agents, but also
by self-appointed border guardians whom some people call vigilantes -- has meant
longer walks through inhospitable snake-ridden terrain for immigrants who seek
to avoid the patrols, many of which stick to roads and well-traveled paths.

Often, Ms. Goodman said, the immigrants' smugglers, called coyotes, abandon the
immigrants when the going becomes too rough, even after the immigrants have paid
$1,000 or more for their services.

''The coyotes will tell them they'll be able to walk to Los Angeles in three
hours,'' she said. ''They don't know where they're going.''

At Three Points, a tiny community at the intersection of the Ajo Highway and a
road that leads 45 miles to the Mexico border at Sasabe, a rancher in a cowboy
hat said the area was experiencing tension because of the immigrants' constant
movement.

Roy Isaman, the rancher, said the Mexican government was ''sloughing off its
economic problems on the U.S.'' by permitting high levels of illegal
immigration.

Mr. Isaman, who said he owned a ranch in Sasabe whose southern edge abuts the
border, complained that migrants cross his property constantly.

''I just tell them, 'Welcome to the United States, and good luck,' and I give
them water,'' Mr. Isaman said. ''But I've come close to drawing a gun on coyotes
who came at me in a threatening way.''

At the Presbyterian church here, Tomas Pacheco, 40, also from Michoacan,
recovering from dehydration and a leg injury from his trek through the desert
last weekend, said his group of 150 people abandoned him when he could not keep
up.

He then spent two days alone, most of that time without water.

''I just asked God to help me out, because when your water is gone you'll never
get out of there alive,'' said Mr. Pacheco, 40, his arms displaying the
scratches he acquired from creosote and mesquite shrubs. ''Finally, I saw
another group of about 10 people, and I asked them for some water. I made it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Jacinto, left, of Mexico, said he saw two teenagers die
after entering Arizona. He and other immigrants recovered at a church in Tucson.

Sue Goodman, a founder of Humane Borders, checking a water station yesterday
near Three Points, Ariz. ''This is crunch time,'' she said. (Photographs by
Thomas Boggan for The New York Times)Chart: ''Death on the Border''A brutal heat
wave in the Southwest has claimed the lives of 12 illegal immigrants over the
last week along Arizona's border with Mexico. Immigrant deaths have increased in
Arizona in recent years and are on course to go up again this year.Graph tracks
number of illegal immigrant deaths, measured in fiscal years beginning Oct. 1,
since 1999.Arizona Heat WaveMay 19Yuma: 99 degreesTucson: 97May 20Yuma:
103Tucson: 105May 21Yuma: 108Tucson: 107May 22Yuma: 110Tucson: 109May 23Yuma:
102Tucson: 105May 24Yuma: 100Tucson: 102Yesterday*Yuma: 98Tucson: 99*As of 4
p.m. local time.(Sources by Border Patrol
 Pennsylvania State University)Map of Arizona highlighting Yuma and other cites
on the border of Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 7, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Social Security: Migrants Offer Numbers for Fee

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

DATELINE: TLALCHAPA, Mexico


Gerardo Luviano is looking for somebody to rent his Social Security number.

Mr. Luviano, 39, obtained legal residence in the United States almost 20 years
ago. But these days, back in Mexico, teaching beekeeping at the local high
school in this hot, dusty town in the southwestern part of the country, Mr.
Luviano is not using his Social Security number. So he is looking for an illegal
immigrant in the United States to use it for him -- providing a little cash
along the way.

''I've almost managed to contact somebody to lend my number to,'' Mr. Luviano
said. ''My brother in California has a friend who has crops and has people that
need one.''

Mr. Luviano's pending transaction is merely a blip in a shadowy yet vibrant
underground market. Virtually undetected by American authorities, operating
below the radar in immigrant communities from coast to coast, a secondary trade
in identities has emerged straddling both sides of the Mexico-United States
border.

''It is seen as a normal thing to do,'' said Luis Magana, an immigrant-rights
activist assisting farm workers in the agriculture-rich San Joaquin Valley of
California.

The number of people participating in the illegal deals is impossible to
determine accurately. But it is clearly significant, flourishing despite efforts
to combat identity fraud.

Hundreds of thousands of immigrants who cross the border from Mexico illegally
each year need to procure a legal identity that will allow them to work in the
United States. Many legal immigrants, whether living in the United States or
back in Mexico, are happy to provide them: as they pad their earnings by letting
illegal immigrants work under their name and number, they also enhance their own
unemployment and pension benefits. And sometimes they charge for the favor.

Martin Mora, a former migrant to the United States who these days is a local
politician preparing to run for a seat in the state legislature in next
October's elections, said that in just one town in the Tlalchapa municipality,
''of about 1,000 that fixed their papers in the United States there might be 50
that are here and lending their number.''

Demand for American identities has blossomed in the cracks between the nation's
increasingly unwelcoming immigration laws and businesses' unremitting demand for
low-wage labor.

In 1986, when the Immigration Reform and Control Act started penalizing
employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants, most employers started
requiring immigrants to provide the paperwork -- including a Social Security
number -- to prove their eligibility to work.

The new law did not stop unauthorized immigrant work. An estimated 10 million
illegal immigrants live in the United States today, up from some 4 million
before the law went into effect. But it did create a thriving market for fake
documents.

These days, most immigrants working unlawfully buy a document combo for $100 to
$200 that includes a fake green card and fake Social Security card with a
nine-digit number plucked out of thin air. ''They'll make it for you right there
at the flea market,'' said David Blanco, an illegal immigrant from Costa Rica
who works as an auto mechanic in Stockton, Calif.

This process has one big drawback, however. Each year, Social Security receives
millions of W-2 earning statements with names or numbers that do not match its
records. Nine million poured in for 2002, many of them just simple mistakes. In
response the agency sends hundreds of thousands of letters asking employers to
correct the information. These letters can provoke the firing of the offending
worker.

Working with a name linked to a number recognized by Social Security -- even if
it is just borrowed or leased -- avoids these pitfalls. ''It's the safest way,''
said Mario Avalos, a Stockton accountant who every year does tax returns for
dozens of illegal immigrants. ''If you are going to work in a company with
strict requirements, you know they won't let you in without good papers.''

While renting Social Security numbers makes up a small portion of the overall
use of false papers, those with close ties to the immigrant communities say it
is increasingly popular. ''It used to be that people here offered their number
for somebody to work it,'' said Mr. Mora in Tlalchapa. ''Now people over there
are asking people here if they can use their number.''

Since legal American residents can lose their green cards if they stay outside
the country too long, for those who have returned to Mexico it is useful to have
somebody working under their identity north of the border.

''There are people who live in Mexico who take $4,000 or $5,000 in unemployment
in the off season,'' said Jorge Eguiluz, a labor contractor working in the
fields around Stockton, Calif. ''They just lend the number during the season.''

The deals also generate cash in other ways. Most identity lending happens within
an extended family, or among immigrants from the same hometown. But it is still
a hard-nosed transaction. Illegal immigrant workers usually earn so little they
are owed an income tax refund at the end of the year. The illegal immigrant
''working the number'' will usually pay the real owner by sharing the tax
refund.

''Sometimes the one who is working doesn't mind giving all the refund, he just
wants to work,'' said Fernando Rosales, who runs a shop preparing income taxes
in the immigrant-rich enclave of Huntington Park, Calif. ''But others don't, and
sometimes they fight over it. We see that all the time. It's the talk of the
place during income tax time.''

Done skillfully, the underground transactions are virtually undetectable. They
do not ring any bells at the Social Security Administration. Nor do they set off
alarms at the Internal Revenue Service as long as the person who lends the
number keeps track of the W-2's and files the proper income tax returns.

In a written response to questions, the audit office of Social Security's
inspector general acknowledged that ''as long as the name and S.S.N. on an
incoming wage item (i.e., W-2) matches S.S.A.'s record'' the agency will not
detect any irregularity.

The response noted that the agency had no statistics on the use of Social
Security numbers by illegal immigrants. It does not even know how many of the
incorrect earnings reports it receives every year come from immigrants working
unlawfully, though immigration experts estimate that most do.

Meanwhile, with the Homeland Security Department focused on terrorism threats,
it has virtually stopped policing the workplace for run-of-the-mill work
violations. Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested only 450 illegal
immigrants in the workplace in 2003, down from 14,000 in 1998.

''We have seen identity fraud,'' said John Torres, deputy assistant director for
investigations. But ''I haven't heard of the renting of identities.''

Immigrants on both sides of the transactions are understandably reluctant to
talk about their participation.

A 49-year-old illegal immigrant from Michoacan who earns $8.16 an hour at a
waffle factory in Torrance, Calif., said that she had been using a Social
Security number she borrowed from a friend in Mexico since she crossed illegally
into the United States 15 years ago. ''She hasn't come back in this time,'' the
woman said.

There are risks involved in letting one's identity be used by someone else,
though, as Mr. Luviano, the beekeeping instructor, learned through experience.

Mr. Luviano got his green card by a combination of luck and guile. He says he
was on a short trip to visit his brother in California when the 1986 immigration
law went into effect and the United States offered amnesty to millions of
unauthorized workers.

Three million illegal immigrants, 2.3 million of them from Mexico, ultimately
received residence papers. Mr. Luviano, who qualified when a farmer wrote a
letter avowing he had worked for months in his fields, was one. Once he had his
papers, though, he returned to Tlalchapa.

He has entered the United States several times since then, mostly to renew his
green card. But in the early 1990's, concerned that long absences could put his
green card at risk and spurred by the chance to make a little extra money, he
lent his Social Security number to his brother's friend. ''I kept almost all the
income tax refund,'' Mr. Luviano said.

Mr. Luviano decided to pull the plug on the arrangement, however, when bills for
purchases he had not made started arriving in his name at his brother's address.
''You lend your number in good faith and you can get yourself in trouble,'' he
said.

But Mr. Luviano is itching to do it again anyway. He knows that Social Security
could provide retirement income down the line. And there's always the tax
refund.

''I haven't profited as much as I could from those documents,'' he said
ruefully.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spurred by the chance to make extra money, Gerardo Luviano lent
his Social Security number to his brother's friend. ''I kept almost all the
income tax refund,'' he said. (Photo by Janet Jarman for The New York Times)(pg.
C3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 19, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Illegal Immigrants, a Harsh Lesson

BYLINE: By SUSAN DONALDSON JAMES

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2371 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


ESTEBAN NAVARRO'S disappearance broke a lot of hearts at Trenton Central High
School, where the dropout rate among Hispanic students is triple the state
average.

Two years ago, Mr. Navarro, a quiet and gifted student, was headed for top
honors. His teachers said he was a star soccer player who received a perfect
score on the advanced-placement calculus exam and was named class valedictorian.
By senior year, the long-haired teenager was being courted by Princeton, where
he took advanced math classes.

But by spring 2003, when he was a senior, Mr. Navarro's plans to attend college
unraveled. As the son of illegal immigrants, Mr. Navarro, who was born in Costa
Rica, had no Social Security number. Had he been a citizen, his parents' meager
income as a cook and a house cleaner might have qualified him for financial aid,
but federal law barred him from receiving assistance.

Afraid to risk flouting federal law, Princeton and other leading universities
could not process Mr. Navarro's applications, according to several people with
knowledge of his situation. And at graduation, as the principal called on him to
deliver the valedictory speech, Mr. Navarro had already dropped out -- his dream
of becoming a mathematician dashed in a tangle of immigration laws.

''He just gave up,'' his 19-year-old brother, Julio, recalled. ''He didn't even
put up a fight.''

Mr. Navarro refused to talk about his situation for this article. Now 21, Mr.
Navarro, who had attended school in the United States since the first grade,
works in a pizza shop outside Philadelphia.

Nor is the plight of Mr. Navarro an isolated case. Currently, about 60,000 high
school students who have spent nearly their entire lives in the United States
are considered illegal immigrants, according to the Urban Institute, a research
organization in Washington. And because 56 percent of them are from low-income
families, the cost of college is out of reach.

One solution is embodied in the In-State Tuition Act, first introduced in the
New Jersey Legislature in 2003, which would allow illegal immigrants like Mr.
Navarro to attend public colleges at in-state tuition rates. Without legal
status, these students, who currently number about 28,000, are charged
out-of-state rates that are prohibitively expensive for most of their struggling
families.

To qualify for in-state status, according to the legislation, students would
have to prove that they had attended a New Jersey high school for at least four
years and planned to apply for citizenship.

Languishing in the Legislature

 The bill, which has languished in the Assembly and the Senate Education
Committee for two years, has the support of the New Jersey Immigration Policy
Network, a coalition of students, charities and civil-liberties organizations.

''Immigrants feel abandoned and isolated, and it's particularly painful for
youth,'' said Ryan Lilienthal, an immigration lawyer in Princeton. ''They feel
they belong here but are stigmatized because they lack opportunity. If we are
not careful and close the education door, who knows what direction they will
pursue? We've got to find ways to get them legal immigration status.''

Opponents believe that the bill, if approved, would strain classrooms and
budgets at public universities and provoke tension between legal immigrants who
might not qualify for lower tuition and illegal immigrants who would.

''If someone from Philadelphia wants to go to school in New Jersey, and an
illegal is getting in-state tuition, that angers students a great deal,'' said
Jean Oswald, executive director of New Jersey Commission on Higher Education.

Consequently, the measure faces an uphill battle, as does a bill pending in
Congress that would allow illegal immigrants to apply for federal college
assistance.

In New Jersey, many advocates of the measure blame racial politics for stalling
its passage.

''The main perception among the immigrant community is that they are
experiencing disguised racism,'' said Carlos Avila, 21, a leading supporter of
the act. ''They feel it's a tool of power and a tug of war in an economic sense.
The Latino immigrants have the economic power, and that sometimes threatens
other communities -- Anglos and African-Americans.''

The issue is particularly pressing in New Jersey, which has the fifth-largest
immigrant population in the nation. Some migration studies say that as many as
500,000 residents are illegal immigrants, although the real numbers are hard to
determine because these immigrants live largely in the shadows for fear of
deportation. They often shuttle among low-wage jobs as cooks, construction
workers and janitors. Their children tend to attend low-performing schools and
drop out early to help their families scratch out a living.

Even so, their children are integrated in the public schools, which by law are
not allowed to question a family's immigration status. Once there, the children
receive mixed messages. For instance, last year -- to ease the transition of
those with limited English proficiency -- state high schools provided bilingual
programs for 342,482 students. But when the college process begins, they face
insurmountable odds and often receive bad advice.

So far, federal and state laws have sent immigrants mixed signals, too. In 1982,
the United States Supreme Court ruled that public school students in
kindergarten through 12th grade could not be denied an education because of
their immigration status. A decade later, the national Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1996 largely cut social benefits to illegal immigrant families,
including access to federal financial aid. The law also included a provision
prohibiting in-state tuition rates for illegal immigrants.

After 2001, California and Texas were the first states to counter that act with
laws to treat illegal immigrant students as residents if they had been educated
almost exclusively in the United States. Those two states were followed by Utah,
Illinois, Oklahoma, New York and Washington.

But many New Jersey legislators are hesitant to act. ''We just don't know how
it's going to play out,'' Ms. Oswald said. ''We've been waiting to see what has
happened in other states with similar laws. What if one is challenged?''

Despite Mr. Avila's contention that racial politics is slowing passage of the
measure, State Senator Ronald Rice, a black Democrat who co-sponsored the
In-State Tuition Act, insists that immigrants are an asset and should not face
obstacles in their quest for a college education.

'Cannot Say No to Students'

 ''We are who we are and cannot say no to students just because of where they
were born,'' said Mr. Rice, whose district includes Newark, where more than 100
languages are spoken in the public schools. ''They are going to public school,
they make friends and are doing well, and the only life they know is America. We
teach them the values of this country, then all of a sudden when they turn 18,
we say, 'The joke's on you.' It's psychologically hard.''

Such was the case with Dina, who joined the bilingual program at Trenton Central
High at age 13, when her parents fled Guatemala. Today, the 19-year-old Dina
(who did not want her last name published) is still a force at the school, where
she has joined the fight for passage of the In-State Tuition Act.

A National Honor Society student, Dina was awarded a scholarship to a local
two-year college, where she is studying to become a nurse. Since Dina is an
illegal immigrant, she is using a false Social Security number, and she declined
to identify her college for fear of jeopardizing her own education and that of
others.

Visiting the school librarian, Joan Bennett, one day last March, Dina --
president of the Bible Club last year at Trenton Central High -- embraced Ms.
Bennett, who was her former adviser.

''You don't see her kind of leadership very often,'' said Ms. Bennett, who has
been teaching at Trenton Central High, where 22 percent of the students are
foreign-born, for 35 years. ''Dina has a gentle manner. She's sweet. But she's a
fighter.''

Six years ago, Dina's family fled Guatemala in the aftermath of the guerrilla
war in which a million people were either killed or disappeared. Like Mr.
Navarro's family, they arrived as tourists and then overstayed their visas.

Unable to speak English, Dina had a hard time adjusting at first. But after two
years in a bilingual program, life started to turn around. Last year her father
talked about returning to Guatemala, and she said she suddenly realized that ''I
don't know anybody there -- I don't know anything except the food.''

Dina wants to be a professional, and although her parents are wary, they support
her. ''My father told me, 'You can take your decision but everything has
consequences,''' she said.

''I know I am taking a risk, but if I don't who will?'' she said. ''You cannot
live with this kind of worry -- whether the police will stop me driving or
whether I am sick and have to go to the hospital. It's an oppression you feel.''

Today, Dina's father, who was a chemical engineer in Guatemala, is a factory
machine operator. The family pays taxes and just bought a house, relying on
relatives who are legal immigrants to sign mortgage papers.

But the cost of sending Dina to a four-year state college is out of reach.
Rutgers charges $16,667 for out-of-state tuition and fees, almost twice the
amount that residents pay, and the cost of an education at the state's private
colleges would be far higher.

That also complicates life for 15-year-old Mitchell, a French citizen of African
descent who arrived at Trenton Central High two years ago. ''I want to be a
lawyer and go to Princeton,'' Mitchell said with an air of confidence and only a
hint of accent.

He had no choice when his mother decided to remarry and move to the United
States. Mitchell had attended a rigorous school just outside Paris, where the
government would have subsidized his university education. But the annual total
cost of attending Princeton, where he would like to go, is $41,380 and out of
the question.

Not Many Consider College

 Based on New Jersey Census figures, there may be as many as 100,000 illegal
immigrants in the public schools. But in 2003, the last year for which figures
are available, only about 1,200 had actually considered applying to college,
according to the New Jersey Immigration Policy Network.

Ms. Oswald of the state Commission on Higher Education disputed those numbers.
''We can't assess the impact, because we do not have accurate figures,'' she
said. ''We just don't know how it is going to play out.''

Moreover, opponents of the In-State Tuition Act question whether New Jersey can
afford to provide lower tuition rates to those here illegally when the loss of
revenue to colleges and universities, already because of budget difficulties,
are considered. ''We don't have any more room,'' Ms. Oswald said.

For its part, Rutgers took no position on the In-State Tuition Act in testimony
at hearings in 2003, but expressed concerns about its legal ramifications.

''One of the underlying issues from a policy perspective was the inequity this
bill would create in a litigious state like New Jersey,'' Sharon Ainsworth,
director of state relations at Rutgers, said in her testimony. ''There is a
whole category of students whose parents are here working on visas. We would be
providing a benefit to an undocumented student and not to a documented one.''

Mr. Avila, whose family arrived illegally in the United States from Ecuador when
he was 6, said, ''My father told me the reason he crossed the border was because
he would wake up each night and wonder how he would feed us.''

In 1985, his parents left their children with grandparents and worked illegally
in California picking lettuce. The children joined them several years later, and
the family gained legal status under the 1996 national amnesty. Today, Mr.
Avila's father publishes a Spanish-language newspaper in Trenton and he is a
political science major at the College of New Jersey.

Mr. Avila, who speaks rapid-fire English and Spanish as he presses for passage
of the In-State Tuition Act, arrived breathless and late to an immigration
conference in February that was attended by Dina and Mitchell. He darted to the
podium with the confident air of a candidate for public office.

''I see people in my life who need help that I can give to them,'' said Mr.
Avila, interspersing passion with statistics. ''These kids work hard for all
four years. They are top-notch, some of the best minds in America.''

He then introduced Dina, whose English faltered as she fought back tears.

''My father just took me on an airplane to this country,'' she said. ''Now I can
see for myself and think for myself. I feel more American than Guatemalan. I
want to become a professional, if it takes 10 years. I am working to save money.
I want God to help me, and you to help me do it. Like Martin Luther King, we
have a dream.''

'These Kids Are My Heroes'

 Robert Miranda, who has been teaching at Trenton Central High for 19 years,
said, ''These kids are my heroes.''

Mr. Miranda, a straight-talking history teacher, said: ''A great majority are
law-abiding, in search of the American dream. In the next few months and years,
we will see a relaxing of the laws. Once the phobias start to recede, we'll see
the economic impact of one person becoming an engineer, a doctor, a lawyer. They
buy houses, cars, pay taxes and generate so much purchasing power. It feeds our
economy. It's good business.''

Immigration papers arrived in April for the Navarro family. But they were too
late for Esteban, who gave up his dream to go to college two years ago and cut
off all contact with high school friends and teachers.

''It hurts me a lot,'' said his brother, Julio, who recently graduated from high
school and plans to attend Middlebury College, where he was awarded a
scholarship. ''When you are growing up, you hear of family members, really
smart, who ultimately end up in roofing or as janitors. I see a lot of kids get
the door shut in their face. You don't hear many success stories. It keeps me up
a lot of nights, wondering why.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Trenton Central High School, the In-State Tuition Act, which
would lower the cost of college for illegal immigrants, is a popular issue.
(Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Robert Miranda, left, a history teacher at Trenton Central High, says illegal
immigrants ''are law-abiding, in search of the American dream.'' Carlos Avila,
below, a graduate of Trenton Central and a student at The College of New Jersey,
is seeking passage of a bill that will make it easier for immigrants to get a
college education. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 26, 2005 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

On L.I., Raid Stirs Dispute Over Influx Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1077 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y., June 23


Among the many tenants crammed into the basement, one slept on a mattress atop a
heating oil tank. The front door was blocked by furniture. Garbage piled up
outside. Extension cords snaked and dangled everywhere, one draped across a
propane tank with a religious candle burning nearby. None of the smoke detectors
worked.

Those were just a few of the conditions that investigators say that they found
at 33 Woodmont Place, where, Brookhaven town officials said, up to 64 people
were living in a 900-square-foot rooming house zoned for one family. There were
44 beds in the home.

But Brookhaven and Suffolk County authorities were not greeted with unanimous
praise after arresting the owner and shuttering the squalid house last week.

Instead, the crackdown reopened Farmingdale's civic wounds over the influx of
thousands of Mexican laborers, many of them illegal immigrants, into this
blue-collar Long Island suburb. Often they live in overcrowded houses, and the
town said it was investigating 123 other suspected cases.

''This has reignited the whole issue of hatred for immigrants in that
community,'' said the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, an advocate for illegal immigrants.

On the other side, some longtime homeowners cheered the enforcement as sorely
overdue protection of their way of life.

Steve Levy, executive of Suffolk County, said, ''We're going to stand up for the
people of this county who have been exploited in their neighborhoods.'' The raid
also rescued the immigrants from inhumane and a potentially disastrous
conditions, he said.

But the Mexicans, who are now homeless, accused Mr. Levy of racism, complaining
that he left them with no place to live. ''If he shut down a home with 30 or 40
dogs, would he have put them out on the street,'' asked Mr. Ramirez, ''or would
he have found a home for them?''

To protest the raid, the Mexicans planned to march on Sunday afternoon to call
for an end to such evictions and to demand a meeting with Mr. Levy.

But Mr. Levy has refused to budge. ''I will not meet with them on this matter,''
he said. ''It's absurd to even discuss the notion we would keep such a facility
open. I'm not one who's going to be intimidated by their antics or marches.
Bring it on.''

On Thursday night, Farmingdale's renewed polarization played out on opposite
ends of Waverly Avenue.

At the Sequoya Middle School, color photographs of the rooming house violations
were displayed on a stage as about 60 residents and a score of town officials
and political candidates gathered for a meeting of the Greater Farmingville
Community Association, a homeowner group. Critical of past government inaction,
the crowd repeatedly applauded the crackdown.

''We're mad as hell, and we're not going to take it anymore,'' said Ray
Wysolmierski, the group's president. Referring to the Mexicans, he said, ''This
is an invasion and occupation.'' In the past he has called them ''terrorists.''

That same night, in an unmarked building a few miles north on Waverly, dozens of
Mexicans met under the auspices of the United Day Laborers of Long Island and
the Workplace Project, nonprofit groups that aid immigrants.

Their session was private, but about 11 p.m. someone emerged with a flier
announcing the march and headlined, ''Say NO to forced homelessness.''

Some tenants say they were locked out and unable to retrieve their belongings.
''I came home from work and couldn't get into my house,'' said a man who gave
only a first name, Emiliano. Town officials say that arrangements have been made
for the former residents to obtain their possessions.

The relocation issue is the source of another dispute. County officials
indicated that Brookhaven was responsible, but the town denies having social
service jurisdiction. Town officials said that they had contacted various
charities, but that there was not enough time for them to help.

Tensions peaked in Farmingville in 2000 after two out-of-towners pretended to
hire two Mexican workers in a group house on Granny Road, next to Woodmont, then
nearly beat them to death. In 2003 teenagers set fire to the house next door,
and a Mexican family sleeping inside barely escaped.

Politicians have grappled with the volatile issue. Mr. Levy, a Democrat,
rejected a proposed hiring hall for day laborers, earning praise from some
homeowners but criticism from liberals and minority groups.

Brookhaven has long been a Republican powerhouse, but after corruption scandals,
the party faces a tough election this fall. Accused of lax code enforcement in
the past, the town is taking an aggressive stance.

Homeowners have staged their own protests, picketing Mexican laborers who
congregate on street corners seeking work from landscaping and construction
contractors. Neighbors complain of excess traffic, and say the men are sometimes
rude.

At night some Mexicans play loud music, drink and get rowdy, some neighbors say.
At 33 Woodmont Place, with dozens of tenants but only two bathrooms, men often
went outside to urinate, town investigators reported. Some neighbors said that
men sometimes defecated in cans and buried the waste in the backyard.

But advocates for the Mexican workers say that most of them avoid trouble and
simply want to earn money for their families back home. The 28 men found at 33
Woodmont Place last Sunday had no arrest warrants pending, the police said.

Neighbors began complaining about 33 Woodmont a year ago, prompting
investigations, tickets for fire and building code violations, and court orders
for compliance.

The owner, Rosalina Dias, 31, refused to obey, officials say, so they arrested
her on contempt of court charges. She is being defended by Bertil Peterson, a
lawyer for the Coalition of Landlords, Homeowners and Merchants, a Long Island
property rights group that fights government controls. Its president, Paul
Palmieri, said that Ms. Dias's only comment was to deny the charges.

Property records show that Ms. Dias paid $86,000 for the house in 1999. The
authorities say she charged up to $250 month to each tenant, for a total monthly
income exceeding $9,000. At that rate, she would recover the costs about every
ten months.

Ms. Dias's own home, at 6 Marlo Road in Selden, is a large two-story structure
with a basement and a stone and stucco facade. The front entrance has 11 wide
granite steps lined by a balustrade. A one-and-a-half story two-car garage,
about the size of the rooming house on Woodmont, is set off by an artificial
stone waterfall.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2005



CORRECTION: An article on Sunday about a renewed debate over the influx of
Mexican immigrants in the Long Island town of Brookhaven referred incorrectly at
two points to the community where officials said they had found as many as 64
people living in a house zoned for one family. It is Farmingville, not
Farmingdale.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Investigators in Farmingville, N.Y., discovered a badly damaged
ceiling among other conditions in a one-family house where they say up to 64
people lived. (Photo by Brookhaven town investigators)(pg. 25)
The house that investigators have said is an illegal rooming house, top, is
owned by Rosalina Dias, who was arrested last week. The 900-square-foot house is
about the size of the garage at Ms. Dias's two-story home, above, on Long
Island. (Photo by Jack McCoy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Brookhaven town investigators)(pg. 28)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farmingville's Rock and Hard Place

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words


IF there were a public-policy superhero on the landscape -- one who could stem
illegal immigration, create affordable housing in the suburbs, raise the minimum
wage, end global economic displacements, guarantee liberty and justice for all
and assure that lawns were mowed and beans were picked at reasonable rates --
there would be no trouble in Farmingville today.

But Farmingville exists in the real world, where problems of all kinds tend to
collide, overlap and linger unaddressed, until someone comes along and attacks
one of them, forgetting it is connected to the others -- often thereby creating
a whole new problem.

By some accounts, that is what happened a week ago when the Suffolk County
executive, Steve Levy, ordered his police department to join forces with the
Town of Brookhaven building inspectors in shutting down an illegal rooming
house. The raid resulted in the arrest of a landlord and the displacement of
about 60 men, all or most of them illegal immigrants who work as day laborers.

Advocates for the workers assailed Mr. Levy for what they called an
unnecessarily harsh assault that pushed 60 people in precarious circumstances
into homelessness.

But neighbors applauded Mr. Levy's boldness in attacking a problem that they had
been asking public officials to do something -- anything -- about for a long
time: migrants from Mexico and Central America who mass at street corners each
morning seeking a day's work, living in overcrowded and unsightly homes next
door to them.

''They bought a house with a white picket fence, so their kids could have good
schools and enjoy the American dream,'' Mr. Levy said of those neighbors, many
of whom he first met when he served as the state assemblyman from the
Farmingville area. ''Having 30 people in a flophouse next door was not part of
the arrangement. They didn't sign up for this.''

According to this view, the problem in such cases is not one of migrants per se,
but of property rights and building codes. ''If the flophouse was inhabited by
60 Caucasians, or college kids, we would have done the same thing,'' Mr. Levy
said, referring to the raid on June 20.

But as other officials from New York to California know well, a decades-long
influx of Latino immigrants, many of them in the country illegally, and a
national immigration policy that varies between neglectful accommodation and
harsh enforcement have left local officials like Mr. Levy holding a Rubik's cube
of public policy problems.

At every turn, these officials find themselves out of alignment with one or
another mission of government. For example, police officers who try to forge
relationships with people in immigrant communities find that those sources dry
up when there is any whiff of federal immigration surveillance. Building and
health inspectors face similar suspicions when they try to gain access to
rooming houses.

Shutting down a rooming house may put a large number of people on the street, as
happened in Farmingville. But federal laws forbid the use of social-services
money to aid illegal immigrants, so local officials who want to help relocate
the displaced must do so at arm's length, usually by enlisting charities and
nonprofit groups.

Citizens tend to see what results as stasis. ''People stand up at meetings and
say, 'The town is not doing anything!''' said Jon Kaiman, the North Hempstead
supervisor, who frequently receives complaints about overcrowded rooming houses
in New Cassel or Port Washington or Carle Place. ''The truth is, we are doing a
lot, but it's a slow process.''

Pressure from homeowners' groups may be speeding it up. Town and county
officials said the Farmingville raid was the first of as many as 117 planned
closures in Suffolk. North Hempstead is seeking injunctions against several
operators of flophouses, too.

''People are angrier and angrier,'' Mr. Kaiman said. ''We have to show that we
are doing something.''

That something may prove to be a bit gentler, at least initially, than it was in
Farmingville. Mr. Kaiman says he has already lined up charitable groups to help
in the event of any future raids and closures in North Hempstead. And after
taking a public drubbing over his county's tactics, Mr. Levy said Tuesday that
future raids in Suffolk would probably also be accompanied by similar
social-service efforts.

But these are matters of style rather than substance. The options are pretty
much the same for officials here and across the country, and those options are
few.

''We have many of the same problems that you see on Long Island, and New Jersey
and Atlanta and Kansas City,'' said Maria Giuriato, a city councilwoman in
Salinas, Calif., where farms attract large numbers of migrant workers.

''Mexicans are fleeing by the thousands and thousands -- in Oaxaca, for
instance, the coffee growers are suffering from competition from Nafta,'' Ms.
Giuriato said, referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement. ''There are
whole towns without men in them. They all come here, and there is not enough
affordable housing. Wages are too low. Workers are forced to live in very bad
conditions.''

Besides sitting on the Salinas city council, Ms. Giuriato also serves as the
community relations director for the Department of Social and Employment
Services in Monterey County.

When flophouses are closed in Salinas, inspectors and police officers hand out
calling cards for agencies like the Monterey County Housing Advocacy Council, a
private group that helps relocate anyone, no questions asked.

''They recently shut down a storefront where 30 men were stacked like
cordwood,'' said Marilyn Dorman, the council's executive director. ''Some of
them trickled in here looking for help. Most of them didn't. There is a wariness
of anything that looks official.''

Advocates on Long Island were incensed when even such token aid was not
forthcoming in Farmingville. ''So now where do these people go? That is the
question,'' said the Rev. Allan Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed
Church and an advocate for Latino workers on Long Island. ''What is the benefit
to the community of putting people out on the street? There is none.''

Advocates like Mr. Ramirez and Xochitl Castaneda, the coordinator of the
Institute of Mexicans Abroad at the University of California, in Berkeley, argue
that immigrants, legal or illegal, contribute in a major way to the local and
national economy and do not deserve to be treated as quasi-criminals.

''Undocumented workers add $120 billion a year to the national economy and pay
between $25 billion and $30 billion in taxes,'' said Ms. Castaneda. ''They
receive no benefit from those taxes. They are denied access to health care,
government assistance or the civil protections of the law.''

The anonymity of the immigrants' lives, in most cases a purposeful blending-in,
makes their occasional surfacing on the front pages all the more startling --
whether as victims of a 2000 attack in Farmingville by white supremacists, or
under the glare of television cameras trained on the dilapidated house where 64
men are said to have lived in 900 square feet of space.

But beneath the surface of that virtual invisibility -- an invisibility that
enshrouds them even as they cut grass and blow leaves, bus tables, paint houses,
lay bricks, dig ditches, haul asbestos, strip roofs, pour blacktop -- the
emotions evoked by the day laborers are strong.

One neighborhood advocate in Farmingville calls them terrorists. Murky
''patriot'' groups from the Far West have organized marches to denounce them.

Mr. Ramirez, the advocate, said that Mr. Levy's raid amounted to ''ethnic
cleansing,'' a remark that prompted Mr. Levy to fire the phrase ''lunatic
fringe'' at Mr. Ramirez, who responded in an interview by calling Mr. Levy evil.

''We have helped to close down a place where men were living in
concentration-camp-like conditions,'' Mr. Levy said Tuesday. ''If there were a
fire in that house, and people died, the same people who attack me for closing
it would be attacking me'' for not having closed it, he said.

As for the emotions of the immigrants themselves, leery as they are of newspaper
reporters as well as building inspectors, the record is incomplete but emerging
piecemeal. The Bi-National Health Task Force, a joint group of researchers from
Mexico and the United States, found in one recent study that after diabetes and
hypertension, the most common health problem among Latino immigrant workers was
depression.

''They are away from their families for long periods, and they are living in
crowded conditions with no access to health care,'' said Ms. Giuriato of
Salinas, a member of the 30-member task force. ''After 10 years of this, the
predominant experience is depression.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: After an illegal rooming house in Farmingville was shut and its
60 residents displaced, protesters demanded a meeting with Steve Levy, county
executive. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)
(Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Carrying away belongings from the Farmingville rooming house. (Photo by Barton
Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. 7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 20, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Housing Boom Brings Jobs and, Sometimes, Abuse

BYLINE: By ROBEN FARZAD

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Urban Migrants; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y.


Eight years ago, Sister Margaret Rose Smyth had to go out of her way to find
illegal immigrants who might need her help, listening for Spanish conversations
at the Kmart on the North Fork of Long Island.

Now every day, Sister Margaret, a Roman Catholic nun who is the director of the
North Fork Spanish Apostolate, typically sees off two early-morning buses filled
with laborers seeking work along the Long Island Expressway, giving them
business tips and moral support.

By the time her workday ends 12 hours later, she has met with scores of other
workers seeking her advice on everything from alcoholism and burial arrangements
to documents and wages.

''The housing and construction boom has more people working,'' Sister Margaret
said, noting that now she sees 1,000 immigrants from Mexico and Central America,
most of them undocumented, at church each week.

''Somebody made it to Riverhead and got the word out,'' she said.

Indeed, the housing boom, with its promise of consistent and better-paying work,
has in the last five years attracted undocumented laborers not just to Long
Island, but also to hot housing markets across the country -- among them the
areas around Chicago; Washington; Freehold, N.J.; Raleigh, N.C.; and Jupiter,
Fla.

But unlike the agricultural work that traditionally drew immigrant laborers to
little-populated areas of the country, construction labor is conspicuously in
the heart of the suburbs, with laborers gathering in Home Depot parking lots,
outside convenience stores and on street corners.

Many are remaining in the suburbs afterward to do landscaping, painting, kitchen
renovations and other home improvement work.

In the process, longtime residents are being forced to confront the issue of
illegal immigration as never before, dotting the national map with dozens of new
battlefronts in the debate on workers living in the United States without legal
status.

While the nature of illegal immigration makes exact numbers hard to come by, the
Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research organization, estimates that the
unauthorized migrant population jumped by 25 percent from 2000 to 2004, to at
least 10.3 million. About 20 to 25 percent of the entire construction work force
in this country, the center estimated, is undocumented.

Abel Valenzuela Jr., a professor of urban planning at the University of
California, Los Angeles, who has canvassed more than 80 worker sites nationwide,
estimates that 75 to 85 percent of all day labor is in home construction, repair
and landscaping.

''The housing boom and construction is driving the day labor issue into the
suburbs,'' said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, a research organization that favors tighter immigration controls. The
growing presence of illegal immigrants has been burden on local hospitals and
schools and is ''sparking political activism at the local level,'' he said.
''Until now,'' he added, ''there hasn't been enough of a catalyst to get local
people speaking out.''

But Rakesh Kochhar, associate director for research at the Pew Hispanic Center,
said that it would be unfair to characterize illegal immigrants as a drain on
society, noting that many of them pay taxes but are ineligible for government
services. Moreover, he said, they contribute to a critical sector of the
economy. ''Construction day laborers are responding to a demand, and definitely
filling a need,'' he said. ''If you took away that labor force, I doubt it would
have a positive effect.''

Freehold, N.J. -- the subject of the Bruce Springsteen song ''My Hometown'' --
is one place the debate has surfaced, as local residents cope uneasily with the
growing number of immigrant workers who seek construction and landscaping jobs
in western Monmouth County.

''Freehold is being used as day labor central,'' said Marc LeVine, a former
councilman in the blue-collar borough who founded Pressing Elected Officials to
Protect Our Living Environment -- with the acronym People -- to campaign against
illegal immigration. ''There's a culture clash and animosity toward not just the
workers, but the wealthy people who demand the day labor.''

Mr. LeVine estimates that Freehold is now home to at least 3,000 to 4,000
illegal immigrants, a significant fraction of the borough's recognized
population of 11,000 people who were counted in the 2000 census. That
off-the-books population increase, Mr. LeVine said, has strained schools and
hospitals and driven up taxes. ''Nobody is sending us money to help us with
these costs,'' he said. ''This cannot be a free-for-all.''

Accordingly, Freehold has become a nationally recognized hot spot in the
immigration debate. In April, the United Patriots of America, a group that
recruits what it calls minutemen to locate and report illegal immigrants, was
blocked by protesters from holding a meeting in Freehold. When it tried to
reconvene at a nearby sports arena in June, dozens of protesters showed up.
Police in SWAT gear stood by.

One point of contention is the formalization and public financing of locations
where day laborers gather to get employment from contractors who increasingly
rely on them for spot work like painting, roofing and marble cutting. Advocates
of immigrant rights are petitioning municipalities to pay for these formal
hiring centers -- which may vary from a large tent with a portable toilet to an
air-conditioned trailer to a whole building -- to address the complaints of
loitering and littering and the danger of workers chasing after vans.

''Day laborer sites are the visible face of the immigration issue,'' said Pablo
Alvarado, a former day laborer who now runs the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network, an umbrella organization for such work sites. ''One hundred men in the
street is a very real thing.''

But proponents of immigration control argue that formal hiring centers amount to
an official sanctioning of illegal labor that will only draw more workers to an
area, creating inevitable overflows and a return to street corner congregations.

In Jupiter, Fla., a popular destination for homeowners fleeing north from the
sprawl of South Florida, construction permits have increased 50 percent in the
last two years. Not coincidentally, so many day laborers have come to the area
in recent years that the town is moving forward with plans for a municipally
financed hiring center.

''I call it an illegal hiring hall,'' said John Slattery, a mortgage broker who
founded Jupiter Neighbors Against Illegal Labor in response to what he said has
been an influx of 5,000 illegal immigrants over the last three years. ''We're
talking about a sleepy little town here that now has an illegal barrio with
drugs and gangs,'' he said. ''Now, the government wants to facilitate it instead
of stopping it.''

Similar debates are taking place in the Washington metropolitan area, where,
according to the National Association of Realtors, the median price for a
single-family home surged 22.7 percent into the first quarter of this year. A
survey commissioned last year by Fairfax County in Northern Virginia found that
at least 80 percent of the area's day laborers, not all of them illegal, were
doing construction work.

''There's a boom in construction here and willing'' workers, said Gustavo
Torres, who heads Casa de Maryland, a hiring site in another Washington suburb,
Takoma Park, Md. ''It's a perfect match.''

The county has reserved nearly $400,000 for at least three new day labor sites.
In Herndon, Va., about 30 miles west of Washington, day laborers have been
gathering in the parking lot of a local 7-Eleven store. Town officials are now
considering a proposal for a formal site with restrooms, parking for contractors
and even English classes and social services for men who do not get hired in the
morning.

''Our tax money should be used to protect our borders,'' said Dennis Baughan, a
realtor and retired schoolteacher in Herndon who has organized a group of 150
residents opposed to the day laborer hiring centers. ''If you build a formal
site it sends a message to Mexico and South America to show up.''

Mr. Baughan said that he had observed the Casa de Maryland center numerous
times. The site, he said, typically assists 70 laborers a day, but he said he
had seen 500 men soliciting construction jobs on the streets surrounding it.
''That will happen here, too,'' he said.

The economic rewards of construction-related day labor are obvious. Workers who
have known the instability of agricultural wages and tip-driven food delivery
say they can clear $500 in cash on good weeks; higher-skilled laborers, like
tile cutters and electricians, earn more. In addition, construction work often
lasts for several weeks, and subcontractors tend to reward the best workers with
repeat job offers. Mr. Alvarado said that while visiting gathering spots in the
Chicago and Atlanta area, he saw police officers parking their cars in front of
sites and ticketing laborers for jaywalking and littering. ''They basically do
this to discourage the men from showing up,'' he said. ''Where are their civil
rights?''

A recent survey of day labor in the Washington area by the Center for the Study
of Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles, found that more
than half of workers questioned reported that they had been cheated out of wages
and one-quarter reported being injured on a job.

Sister Margaret of the North Fork Spanish Apostolate said she has a ''logjam''
of cases of laborers not being paid. She carries a box of more than 40 reports
of abuse, like a contractor who slaps his workers and bosses who deduct sums as
''taxes'' that they then pocket.

Sister Margaret says she worries that she is only seeing a fraction of the true
total. ''Many of the men,'' she says, ''would rather tolerate abuse and injury
than get deported.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A day laborer, above, part of a tide of immigrants in
construction across the nation, worked on restoration of a home in Chicago. In
New York, day laborers in the Jackson Heights section of Queens, below hoped for
jobs that pay as little as $60 a day. (Photo by John Gress for The New York
Times)
(Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Sister Margaret Rose Smyth, a Roman Catholic nun, helps immigrant workers on
Long Island. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Considering Use Of Volunteers, Official Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 20


The nation's top border enforcement official said Wednesday that his agency was
exploring ways to involve citizen volunteers in creating ''something akin to a
Border Patrol auxiliary.''

The statement marks a significant shift and comes after a high-profile civilian
campaign this spring along the Arizona-Mexico border.

The official, Robert C. Bonner, commissioner of United States Customs and Border
Protection, said his agency had focused on involving citizens after noting the
willingness of volunteers to help federal agents catch illegal immigrants.

''It is actually as a result of seeing that there is the possibility in local
border communities, and maybe even beyond, of having citizens that would be
willing to volunteer to help the Border Patrol,'' Mr. Bonner said.

''We value having eyes and ears of citizens, and I think that would be one of
the things we are looking at is how you better organize, let's say, a citizen
effort,'' he said.

Mr. Bonner characterized the idea as an area his agency was considering.

Questions regarding what kind of authority the volunteers would have and whether
they could make arrests or carry guns have not been worked out, he said.

In April, hundreds of volunteers joined the Minuteman Project to patrol a
23-mile stretch of the Arizona-Mexico border, generating international attention
and criticism and leading to similar campaigns.

Until now, Border Patrol officials have generally criticized civilian efforts to
police the nation's borders, saying it was the job of trained law enforcement
officers. President Bush has expressed his opposition to border ''vigilantes.''

''The Border Patrol does this every day, and they are qualified and very well
trained to handle the situation,'' Mr. Bonner said in February, noting that the
Minutemen planned to carry firearms. ''Ordinary Americans are not. So there's a
danger that not just illegal migrants might get hurt, but that American citizens
might get hurt in this situation.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The eagerness of volunteers like these, searching near the
California-Mexico border yesterday, has caught the government's attention.
(Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Denies Plan for Civilian Border Patrol

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 21


One day after its top border enforcement official said he was exploring the
idea, the Department of Homeland Security announced Thursday that it had no
plans to enlist civilian volunteers to help patrol the nation's borders.

On Wednesday, the official, Robert C. Bonner, commissioner of the Bureau of
Customs and Border Protection, told The Associated Press that the agency was
considering the training of volunteers to create ''something akin to a Border
Patrol auxiliary.''

But a Homeland Security spokesman issued a statement on Thursday backing away
from Mr. Bonner's suggestion.

''There are currently no plans by the Department of Homeland Security to use
civilian volunteers to patrol the border,'' said the spokesman, Brian J.
Roehrkasse. ''That job should continue to be done by the highly trained,
professional law enforcement officials.''

Mr. Bonner's comments had appeared to be a significant shift. Before a highly
publicized volunteer border-watch campaign along the Arizona-Mexico border in
April, Mr. Bonner had urged civilians not to interfere with his agents' work,
saying ''ordinary Americans'' were not qualified for what could be a dangerous
task. But on Wednesday he said his agency had begun focusing on civilian
involvement after noting how eager volunteers were to stop illegal immigration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Georgia, a Barrier to Voting

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 95 words



To the Editor:

Requiring a picture ID is not discriminatory. It's a perfectly reasonable
precaution to prevent ineligible people -- like illegal immigrants -- from
voting.

If you check Georgia's Department of Driver Services Web site, you will find
that the ID cards are available to nondrivers old enough to sign their name or
make their mark. Identification cards are also available in Mississippi, so I'm
sure they aren't a new concept.

If there is a problem with Georgia's new voting law, requirement of an ID isn't
it.

Jeanne Nicholson
Murfreesboro, Tenn., July 20, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 27, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minutemen At Our Borders
<To the Editor:

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 130 words


My understanding of the Minuteman Project is that its goal was not to capture or
kill the illegal immigrants whom the volunteers discovered, but to alert federal
border authorities to the illegal immigrants' presence so that they could
apprehend and deport them.

I support such lawful efforts to interdict illegal immigrants at the border
before they can disperse to other parts of our country.

If the current administration, with its pandering to Mexico, the Hispanic lobby
and the illegal immigrant industry, will not enforce our laws and protect our
borders, then citizen volunteers must act to overcome federal inertia.

The flood of illegal immigrants through our porous southern border is a threat
to our national security.

Howard B. Walitt
Grand Junction, Colo., July 23, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 27, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Newark: Five Egyptians Arrested

BYLINE: By Damien Cave (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 112 words


Five Egyptian men are in federal custody and facing deportation, accused of
being in the country illegally, after an anonymous tip to the police, the F.B.I.
said yesterday.

No criminal charges were filed and federal investigators found no weapons or
signs of terrorist activity, said Special Agent Steven Siegel. He said that the
Newark police asked the F.B.I.'s help on Sunday after finding train schedules
with circled stops and $8,000 in cash at the home on Ferry Street where the five
men lived with a sixth Egyptian who was in the country legally. Investigators
eventually found that one man had used the map to get to his restaurant job in
New York.   Damien Cave (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Laborers Map Plans on Long Island

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN and BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 495 words


Scores of day laborers and organizers from around the country converged
yesterday at a national conference on Long Island, an area that has been a
flashpoint of anger over illegal immigrants. The choice was no accident, their
leaders said.

Their plan was to contrast the conflicts that have erupted in places like
Farmingville with the peaceful resolutions they say are possible, especially
through the creation of permanent hiring centers for day laborers to replace
contentious shape-ups on street corners.

''The issues here have affected everybody throughout the country,'' said Pablo
Alvarado, the national coordinator of the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network, which sponsored the three-day conference. ''The beatings, the
evictions. Everybody knows Long Island.''

Mr. Alvarado was referring to clashes in the Suffolk County hamlet of
Farmingville. Most recently, the county executive drew both outrage and praise
for shutting down one of many illegal rooming houses there, displacing about 60
immigrant men, mostly illegal immigrants who work in day-labor jobs.

But the group's march and vigil in Farmingville yesterday evening was peaceful.
And delegates to the conference, which continues through tomorrow at Hofstra
University in Hempstead, included some from day-labor centers in other parts of
Long Island that have been more accommodating to this growing temporary work
force.

As delegates from 29 worker organizations in 12 states shared successful tactics
and tales of persecution in small groups, some having driven all night to make
the meeting, Mr. Alvarado stressed that many towns had tried and failed to
disperse day laborers through aggressive law enforcement.

''They send police on horses, police on bikes, and they give tickets for
jaywalking, trespassing, littering, loitering,'' he said. Even helicopters have
been used to chase laborers, he added, citing practices in Algura Hills, Calif.,
where he said undercover cops posing as contractors have been known to transport
workers to out-of-the-way places and leave them to walk back.

Critics say hiring halls only encourage illegal migration and spill over into
street-corner gatherings anyway.

But Chris Newman, the legal programs coordinator for the day-laborer network,
contended that such centers, though not a perfect solution, had proved to ease
local conflicts by bringing workers off the streets, providing toilets and
helping to prevent exploitation.

''The key is to stay ahead of the curve, to prevent these breakdowns in
community relations before they happen,'' Mr. Newman said. ''Once the day-labor
relationship becomes politicized, it becomes hard to repair.''

Though New York is second only to California in the number of day laborers,
according to national studies, he said the New York metropolitan area had lagged
in creating day-labor centers.

The area has at least 57 street-corner day-labor markets but only 8 hiring
halls, 2 in the city, Mr. Newman said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Northwest: Idaho: Companies Sued Over Illegal Labor

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 110 words


Four major agricultural companies have been sued by Canyon County, just west of
Boise. The county accuses them of conspiring to hire and harbor illegal
immigrants. The federal lawsuit contends that the companies -- Syngenta Seeds,
Sorrento Lactalis, Swift Beef and Harris Moran Seed -- violated the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act by taking part in an ''illegal
immigrant hiring scheme.'' The lawsuit is the first time a government has used
the act to demand damages from businesses for the costs of illegal employees,
legal experts said. It was pursued at the behest of County Commissioner Robert
Vasquez, above, who is running for Congress.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

EGYPTIANS FACING DEPORTATION

BYLINE: By Damien Cave

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFS:; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 111 words


Five Egyptian men are in federal custody and facing deportation, accused of
being in the country illegally, after an anonymous tip to the police, the F.B.I.
said Tuesday.

No criminal charges were filed and federal investigators found no weapons or
signs of terrorist activity, said Special Agent Steven Siegel. He said that the
Newark police asked for the F.B.I.'s help after finding train schedules with
circled stops and $8,000 in cash at the home on Ferry Street where the five men
lived with a sixth Egyptian who was in the country legally. Investigators
eventually found that one man had used the map to go to his restaurant job in
New York. Damien Cave

IMMIGRATION


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Mexican Evolution

BYLINE: By Matthew Dowd.

Matthew Dowd, who was the chief strategist for the 2004 Bush-Cheney campaign, is
the senior adviser to the Republican National Committee.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: Austin, Tex.


WITH nearly six million Mexicans living illegally in the United States, some
Americans, particularly those in border states, are greatly worried about the
costs of illegal immigration and have demanded that more be done to stem it.
Modern-day ''minutemen'' patrol the border. Voters pass measures limiting the
rights of illegal immigrants, and senators debate legislation to establish
guest-worker programs. Certain elected officials and pundits focus on the perils
of illegal immigration to score political points.

But chances are that there will be a substantial decrease in illegal immigration
from Mexico in the next 20 years, and it won't be because of civilian border
patrols, laws being passed, pronouncements by politicians, or as some would
like, ''building a wall on the border.'' Instead, the cause will be demographic
trends within Mexico itself, trends that have been largely ignored in the debate
over immigration.

Mexico's population growth rate has dropped by more than 50 percent during the
last five decades, according to the United Nations. The annual growth rate has
declined from approximately 3 percent in 1960 to 1.3 percent today. And it is
expected to continue to fall in the first decades of the 21st century; by 2050,
the United Nations predicts, the rate will be negative. The fertility rate in
Mexico has had a corresponding significant drop, from 6.9 children per woman in
1955 to 2.5 today.

The population growth rate of Mexico is now only slightly higher than that of
Canada, where recent data shows it to be 1 percent. Twenty-five years ago,
Mexico had a growth rate more than twice that of Canada.

So what is the significance of all this? The aging of the population in Mexico
coupled with Mexico's economic expansion mean that jobs in Mexico will be more
plentiful, thereby prompting fewer young people to come to the United States in
search of work. Studies have shown that as the population growth rate in
countries worldwide slows, migration drops. This is especially true for an
expanding economy like Mexico -- in one telling statistic, youth unemployment
there dropped to 4.1 percent in 2001 from 9.6 percent in 1995.

A recent Pew Hispanic Center study highlights some of the change in immigration
to the United States from the south. Pew predicts that the share of
first-generation immigrants in the total Hispanic population in the United
States will drop from about 40 percent in 2000 to closer to a third by 2020.
Thus first-generation immigrants will decline by almost 20 percent as a share of
the total Hispanic population in the United States.

If the trend continues, it could be that we've already seen the high-water mark
of illegal Mexican immigration -- put simply, the issue may be resolving itself.

What would be the practical effect of all this? It suggests that any long-term
project to close off the United States-Mexico border may use up money that could
be more useful elsewhere. What's more, businesses that depend on a steady supply
of low-paid illegal immigrants to keep costs down -- restaurants, farms,
construction companies -- will most likely need to adapt by increasing salaries
and benefits so they can attract legal immigrants or citizens as workers.

And as these trends become more apparent to the public, politicians running on
an anti-Mexican-immigrant platform will be seen as out of step. While these
politicians may seem successful in the short term, by the next decade the facts
will definitely get in their way.

Does the United States need to continue to worry about border security and
terrorism? Absolutely. Do we as a society need to figure out how to handle
illegal immigrants and their families already living and working in the United
States? Of course.

But legislators and government agencies should spend more time and resources
addressing the problems of immigrants already here and our direct security
needs, and much less time on prescriptive laws aimed at stemming illegal
immigration from Mexico. We should be aware of the historic transformations
occurring in Mexican society so that we aren't fighting a war that is already
ending.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Will Millions Retire Here or Go South of Border?

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and ELISABETH MALKIN; Eduardo Porter reported from
Donna, Tex., and Guerrero, Mexico, for this article. Elisabeth Malkin reported
from Mexico City and Jalisco, Mexico.

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Mexicans at Home Abroad;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1651 words


In recent decades, millions of working-age Mexicans have entered the United
States. Most of them have come illegally, taking jobs on the bottom rungs of the
American labor market.

While much of the attention remains on the persistent inflow of illegal workers,
a new question is beginning to worry some analysts and policy makers on both
sides of the border: What will happen when the 10 million Mexicans living in the
United States become too old to work? Will they retire in the United States or
will they return to Mexico?

As they age, the choices these old-timers make could fray the social fabric on
both sides of the border.

Mexico is not prepared to receive them back. With a rapidly aging population
living in Mexico and virtually no public system of social security or health
insurance, Mexico could hardly cope with millions of returning immigrants who
spent their working lives in the United States.

''If we add to the dynamic of aging the return of Mexicans who don't have
coverage,'' said Rodolfo Tuiran, a respected demographer who is under secretary
of social development in the Mexican government, ''then we are talking about a
significant problem.''

But the United States is also unprepared to deal with millions of poor, aging
immigrants, eking out a living without recourse to Social Security, Medicare,
Medicaid or most other forms of federal assistance.

In 2003, an estimated 710,000 Mexicans over 60 lived in the United States, 63
percent more than a decade earlier, the National Population Council of Mexico
concluded, based on Census Bureau figures. About a quarter lived under the
poverty line, a far greater share than the 10 percent of the overall elderly
population who are poor.

Those numbers are expected to swell for the current generation of illegal
immigrants. Unlike earlier migrants -- many of them now legal residents in the
United States -- today's illegal immigrants are likely to see Social Security,
Medicare or Medicaid as little more than mirages. While most have paid taxes
over their working lives to these programs, under current law they are not
entitled to any benefits.

''If all these people that came here are going to stay, then there is a question
of what will be the social cost,'' said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew
Hispanic Center in Washington. ''If they're only here for their working life,
it's a bargain.''

Immigration policy, however, might be unwittingly contributing to an increase in
the number of older Mexicans staying in the United States, as increasingly tight
border controls encourage illegal immigrants to settle here rather than risk
keeping families in Mexico and shuttling back and forth across the border.

Consider Angelita Sanchez de Valdez, who stepped into a rickety boat to cross
the Rio Grande more than half a century ago, entering the United States
illegally to join her husband and start a new life as a migrant farm worker.
Today, Ms. Sanchez, an 83-year-old widow, is an American citizen and Mexico, she
said, ''is a little bit forgotten.''

Living with her daughter and son-in-law in Donna, Tex., a parched town 10 miles
from the border, Ms. Sanchez receives $453 a month from Social Security plus $81
in Supplemental Security Income, intended to improve the incomes of the poor.
With no private insurance and no savings, she relies on her daughter's good
will, and on Medicaid to pay for prescription drugs and medical bills not
covered by Medicare.

Given the nature of the movements across the border, there are no definitive
statistics on return flows of older migrants to Mexico. But as the number of
older immigrants starts adding up, 35 years after the flow of illegal workers
across the border started to swell, the trickle of returning old-timers is
gathering momentum.

An official survey of Mexican residents in 1990 found only 11,500 over 50 who
had been living in the United States in 1985. By 2000, the number of Mexicans
older than 50 who had been in the United States five years earlier rose to
27,900, according to the National Population Council.

One draw pulling Mexicans back home is affordability. ''In little Mexico the
money seems like a lot,'' said Roselino Sebastian Castaneda, 72, who returned
nine years ago to his hometown in Tierra Caliente, Guerrero, after 35 years
shuttling from California to Texas to Louisiana to Colorado to Montana.

He knows he could never afford to live in the United States on the $350 a month
he collects from Social Security, the half of his benefit not swallowed by child
support for a daughter in Arizona. But in Mexico, he said, ''if I stop drinking
and stop partying I can live on that.''

Another draw is property. Almost half of Mexican immigrants over 50 own property
in Mexico, according to a survey by the Pew Hispanic Center. The decision can
come down simply to the nebulous yet powerful tug of nostalgia.

Family ties are perhaps the most powerful forces. But they can pull either way:
the probability of return is much higher for the 58 percent of immigrants over
50 who left spouses back in Mexico than for the 24 percent who have spouses in
the United States, according to data from the Mexican Migration Project, a
survey series run by researchers at Princeton University and the Universidad de
Guadalajara in Mexico.

Ms. Sanchez stayed in the United States because she could not bear to leave her
children and grandchildren. ''In the beginning I really tried to convince my old
man to return,'' she said. ''But I got used to it. Now I've got to stay here
because all my family is here.''

Mr. Sebastian Castaneda, on the other hand, returned to Mexico to care for his
mother, who is now 96. ''That's why I don't go back'' to the United States, he
said.

Francisco Franco Alvarez spent 30 years in California making bricks, landscaping
and tending Los Angeles's sewers. He left his wife, Silvina Barba Tejeda, behind
at their home in Valle de Guadalupe, Jalisco, a small rural town in western
Mexico. But he returned every winter on what his daughters Silvina and Maria
Adela joke was the annual visit to conceive. There were 16 pregnancies, 4
miscarriages and 12 children.

But 22 years ago, at age 62, he decided it was time to return home. ''An old man
alone is like an old dog all alone,'' he said.

The 10 surviving children were long gone from the nest: 4 in Mexico and 6 in the
United States. He and his wife could live on $500 a month from Social Security,
plus $381 from a union pension. They owned a house, partially built with money
he sent back every month from his jobs in the United States.

And Mr. Franco, now 84, had had enough of America. ''The pace of life there
bothered me a lot,'' Mr. Franco said from his perch at the threshold of an old
stable and inn, where he holds court with a group of elderly men. ''Over there
it's a country of slaves.''

He took a swig from a mix of arnica and tequila, apparently a balm for sore
throats. ''Here you can live for years,'' he said. ''If I lived there I would
have died.''

Sitting next to Mr. Franco, Maximo Alvarez Gutierrez, 65, sees things from the
opposite perspective. He also left for the United States 45 years ago. He picked
peaches in Fresno and bused tables in Los Angeles. He sent money home every
month for his wife, and bought a four-bedroom house on a cobbled street.

But rather than returning to live in Mexico, Mr. Alvarez brought his wife,
Maria, to the United States six years ago. They now live in a room above the
garage at the home of one of their daughters in Bellflower, Calif., southeast of
downtown Los Angeles. And their house in Valle de Guadalupe lies empty for much
of the year.

''I've always liked living in the United States,'' said Mr. Alvarez, who is
applying to become an American citizen. ''I've been there for 45 years. It's a
whole life.''

Most illegal immigrants in the United States have yet to reach the age in which
it becomes all but impossible to lug another sack of cement across construction
sites or race up and down a ladder picking peaches from a tree. When they do,
their choices are likely to be different from those of the current crop of
elderly.

For starters, unlike most old-timers today, they will probably remain illegal.
In the 1960's and 1970's, becoming a legal immigrant was relatively simple:
having a child in the United States was often all it took.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 allowed another 2.3 million
illegal immigrants from Mexico to become legal American residents, eligible for
benefits like Social Security.

But the situation is no longer so easy. In the last 10 years, crossing the
border has become much more difficult as immigration restrictions have been
tightened. These days, even if an illegal immigrant were entitled to obtain
legal residence -- say, through an adult citizen son or daughter -- the
immigrant would be barred officially from the United States for 10 years before
being allowed to live here legally.

At the same time, the continuous fortification of the southern border might have
the unintended consequence of encouraging aging immigrants to stay. Douglas
Massey, a professor of sociology at Princeton University who heads the Mexican
Migration Project, says that tougher border controls are changing the nature of
illegal immigration.

Unwilling to face the border patrol and the desert crossing more often than is
absolutely necessary, illegal immigrants are returning home less than they used
to. Instead, they are bringing their wives and children to the United States,
becoming more settled in their new land.

''Before, immigration was largely male,'' Mr. Massey said. ''The vast majority
would return to Mexico and they often left their families on the Mexican side of
border. The militarization of the border transformed a single male migration
into a family migration. That makes retirement to Mexico much more
problematic.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Francisco Franco Alvarez, right, spent 30 years working in
California but has retired to Mexico. At left is his son-in-law. (Photo by
Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)
Angelita Sanchez de Valdez entered America over half a century ago and is now a
citizen. (Photo by Brad Doherty for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Maximo Alvarez Gutierrez worked in the United States for decades and opted not
to retire in Mexico. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg.
C6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Better Ways to Control Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 65 words



To the Editor:

Illegal immigration isn't just about money: it's about people wanting a better
future for their children.

The United States will never regain control over its borders or labor market
until, like most other Western countries, it stops giving automatic citizenship
to children born in the United States to illegal immigrants.

Jonathan David Makepeace
Windsor, Ontario, Aug. 14, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Better Ways to Control Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 164 words



To the Editor:

Issuing more visas so more unskilled workers can enter the United States would
merely put the facade of legality on an activity that shouldn't be happening in
the first place.

You can't hide a white flag with a flurry of green cards.

Allowing a flood of foreign unskilled workers into the country would also
undermine what should be efforts to match our own unskilled, jobless citizens to
those jobs through our state employment departments.

That renewed focus might also lift wages and interest in those essential but
underpaid positions so that more of our own citizens would view them as an
honorable step up into the middle class instead of as an exercise in
exploitation.

Want to really stop illegal immigration? A good start would be to link trade
with, and foreign aid from, the United States to the effectiveness of our
trading partners' efforts at stopping the outflow of unskilled workers from
their side of the border.

William Manning
Boston, Aug. 14, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Illegal Immigrants Win Arizona Ranch in Court Fight

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1151 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Ariz., Aug. 18


Spent shells litter the ground at what is left of the firing range, and
camouflage outfits still hang in a storeroom. Just a few months ago, this ranch
was known as Camp Thunderbird, the headquarters of a paramilitary group that
promised to use force to keep illegal immigrants from sneaking across the border
with Mexico.

Now, in a turnabout, the 70-acre property about two miles from the border is
being given to two immigrants whom the group caught trying to enter the United
States illegally.

The land transfer is being made to satisfy judgments in a lawsuit in which the
immigrants had said that Casey Nethercott, the owner of the ranch and a former
leader of the vigilante group Ranch Rescue, had harmed them.

''Certainly it's poetic justice that these undocumented workers own this land,''
said Morris S. Dees Jr., co-founder and chief trial counsel of the Southern
Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., which represented the immigrants in
their lawsuit.

Mr. Dees said the loss of the ranch would ''send a pretty important message to
those who come to the border to use violence.''

The surrender of the ranch comes as the governors of Arizona and New Mexico have
declared a state of emergency because of the influx of illegal immigrants and
related crime along the border.

Bill Dore, a Douglas resident briefly affiliated with Ranch Rescue who is still
active in the border-patrolling Minuteman Project, called the land transfer
''ridiculous.''

''The illegals are coming over here,'' Mr. Dore said. ''They are getting the
American property. Hell, I'd come over, too. Get some American property, make
some money from the gringos.''

The immigrants getting the ranch, Edwin Alfredo Mancia Gonzales and Fatima del
Socorro Leiva Medina, could not be reached for comment. Kelley Bruner, a lawyer
at the law center, said they did not want to speak to the news media but were
happy with the outcome.

Ms. Bruner said that Mr. Mancia and Ms. Leiva, who are from El Salvador but are
not related, would not live at the ranch and would probably sell it. Mr.
Nethercott bought the ranch in 2003 for $120,000.

Mr. Mancia, who lives in Los Angeles, and Ms. Leiva, who lives in the Dallas
area, have applied for visas that are available to immigrants who are the
victims of certain crimes and who cooperate with the authorities, Ms. Bruner
said. She said that until a decision was made on their applications, they could
stay and work in the United States on a year-to-year basis.

Mr. Mancia and Ms. Leiva were caught on a ranch in Hebbronville, Tex., in March
2003 by Mr. Nethercott and other members of Ranch Rescue. The two immigrants
later accused Mr. Nethercott of threatening them and of hitting Mr. Mancia with
a pistol, charges that Mr. Nethercott denied. The immigrants also said the group
gave them cookies, water and a blanket and let them go after an hour or so.

The Salvadorans testified against Mr. Nethercott when he was tried by Texas
prosecutors. The jury deadlocked on a charge of pistol-whipping but convicted
Mr. Nethercott, who had previously served time in California for assault, of gun
possession, which is illegal for a felon. He is now serving a five-year sentence
in a Texas prison.

Mr. Mancia and Ms. Leiva also filed a lawsuit against Mr. Nethercott; Jack
Foote, the founder of Ranch Rescue; and the owner of the Hebbronville ranch, Joe
Sutton. The immigrants said the ordeal, in which they feared that they would be
killed by the men they thought were soldiers, had left them with post-traumatic
stress.

Mr. Sutton settled for $100,000. Mr. Nethercott and Mr. Foote did not defend
themselves, so the judge issued default judgments of $850,000 against Mr.
Nethercott and $500,000 against Mr. Foote.

Mr. Dees said Mr. Foote appeared to have no substantial assets, but Mr.
Nethercott had the ranch. Shortly after the judgment, Mr. Nethercott gave the
land to his sister, Robin Albitz, of Prescott, Ariz. The Southern Poverty Law
Center sued the siblings, saying the transfer was fraudulent and was meant to
avoid the judgment.

Ms. Albitz, a nursing assistant, signed over the land to the two immigrants last
week.

''It scared the hell out of her,'' Margaret Pauline Nethercott, the mother of
Mr. Nethercott and Ms. Albitz, said of the lawsuit. ''She didn't know she had
done anything illegal. We didn't know they had a judgment against my son.''

This was not the first time the law center had taken property from a group on
behalf of a client. In 1987, the headquarters of a Ku Klux Klan group in Alabama
was given to the mother of a boy whose murder was tied to Klansmen. Property has
also been taken from the Aryan Nations and the White Aryan Resistance, Mr. Dees
said.

Joseph Jacobson, a lawyer in Austin who represented Mr. Nethercott in the
criminal case, said the award was ''a vast sum of money for a very small
indignity.'' Mr. Jacobson said the two immigrants were trespassing on Mr.
Sutton's ranch and would have been deported had the criminal charges not been
filed against Mr. Nethercott.

He criticized the law center for trying to get $60,000 in bail money transferred
to the immigrants. While the center said the money was Mr. Nethercott's, Mr.
Jacobson said it was actually Ms. Nethercott's, who mortgaged her home to post
bail for her son.

Mr. Nethercott and Mr. Foote had a falling out in 2004, and Mr. Foote left Camp
Thunderbird, taking Ranch Rescue with him. Mr. Nethercott then formed the
Arizona Guard, also based on his ranch.

In April, Mr. Nethercott told an Arizona television station, ''We're going to
come out here and close the border with machine guns.'' But by the end of the
month, he had started his prison sentence.

Now, only remnants of Camp Thunderbird remain on his ranch, a vast expanse of
hard red soil, mesquite and tumbleweed with a house and two bunkhouses. One
bunkhouse has a storeroom containing some camouflage suits, sleeping bags,
tarps, emergency rations, empty ammunition crates, gun parts and a chemical
warfare protection suit.

In one part of the ranch, dirt is piled up to form the backdrop of a firing
range. An old water tank, riddled with bullet holes, is on its side. A platform
was built as an observation post on the tower that once held the water tank.

Charles Jones, who was hired as a ranch hand about a month before Mr. Nethercott
went to prison, put up fences and brought in cattle to graze. He has continued
to live on the property with some family members.

But now the cattle are gone, and Mr. Jones has been told that he should prepare
to leave. ''It makes me sick I did all this work,'' he said.

Ms. Nethercott said she was not sure whether her son knew that his ranch was
being turned over to the immigrants, but that he would be crushed if he did.

''That's his whole life,'' she said of the ranch. ''He'd be heartbroken if he
lost it in any way, but this is the worst way.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2005



CORRECTION: A picture caption last Friday with an article about the awarding of
an Arizona ranch to two illegal immigrants who said they had been harmed by
members of a border patrol group, Ranch Rescue, misidentified a man in military
gear. He was Jack Foote, founder of the group -- not Casey Nethercott, the
former ranch owner and a former leader of the group.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A windmill tower in Douglas, Ariz., was a lookout point for
members of a group that tried to prevent illegal immigrants from crossing the
border. (Photo by David Bowser for The New York Times)
Casey Nethercott, right, in a photograph found in the house he has lost.
 Fatima Leiva and Edwin Mancia have been awarded an Arizona ranch. (Photo by
German Garcia/The Monitor, via Associated Press) Map of Arizona highlighting
Douglas: Camp Thunderbird is two miles from the Mexican border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 20, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Emergency Declaration Sought

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 112 words


The State Assembly leader called on Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to make
California the third state to declare an emergency along its border with Mexico.

Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez, a Democrat, said on Thursday that California
needed to pressure the federal government to act to stop drug running and
illegal immigration. ''The timing is good,'' Mr. Nunez said. ''The governors of
Arizona and New Mexico have done this, and there's an opportunity for three
states to have a joint effort in lobbying the federal government.'' Mr.
Schwarzenegger has said that he supports the actions of the other governors but
does not think there is a crisis along the border in California.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 24, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Homeland Security Chief, With Nod to Public Discontent, Tells of Plan to
Stabilize Border

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 992 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23


Acknowledging public frustration over illegal immigrants, Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff said Tuesday that the federal government's border
control efforts must be significantly strengthened.

''We have decided to stand back and take a look at how we address the problem
and solve it once and for all,'' Mr. Chertoff said at a breakfast meeting with
reporters. ''The American public is rightly distressed about a situation in
which they feel we do not have the proper control over our borders.''

The unusually blunt assessment by the nation's top immigration official follows
border-related emergency declarations by the governors of New Mexico and
Arizona, who cited a surge in smuggling and violence associated with a steady
flow of illegal immigrants.

The strategy that Mr. Chertoff said his department was preparing goes far beyond
hiring more Border Patrol agents and installing more surveillance cameras,
infrared and motion detectors, and fences, initiatives that are already planned
or under way.

In addition to those apprehension efforts, the secretary intends to bolster the
deportation process so that an overwhelmed detention system does not cause
illegal immigrants to be set free instead of being sent home. He plans to add
beds for detainees, expedite deportations by making more judges and lawyers
available, and try to track down more illegal immigrants who do not appear for
deportation hearings.

Over the last decade, the number of Border Patrol agents has climbed to about
11,000 from 4,000. The number of arrests of illegal migrants along the border,
meanwhile, a figure that had dropped after the Sept. 11 attacks, has surged in
the last couple of years, and again tops more than a million annually.

So many illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico are being caught --
142,500 so far this fiscal year, compared with 39,555 in all of 2000 -- that
thousands are released within the United States before deportation proceedings
because there is not enough space at detention centers.

''If you have not arranged for the beds, you have not arranged to remove them,
you are going to have to release them,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''That is completely
a waste of time.''

Homeland Security officials have provided no estimate of how much the
secretary's new initiatives will cost. The government is already spending $7.3
billion a year in border-related expenses, they say, a 58 percent increase since
the Sept. 11 terrorism.

Mr. Chertoff, a former federal prosecutor and judge who took over the Homeland
Security Department in February, is far from the first Washington official to
promise a solution to the border control problem. But in his remarks at
Tuesday's breakfast, sponsored by The Christian Science Monitor, he said his
staff was mapping every mile of the Mexican border and preparing estimates of
how many illegal immigrants use each of the various entry corridors so he could
best decide how to deploy 1,000 or so new Border Patrol agents Congress appears
likely to provide for the coming year.

The department will also then identify where it should place as many as 2,250
new detention beds that will be financed in next year's budget, a 10 percent
increase. It also plans to place immigration judges closer to detention centers
and allocate more money for lawyers who argue deportation cases on behalf of the
government, increasing capacity in part by simply deporting illegal immigrants
faster, a Homeland Security official said after Mr. Chertoff spoke.

The new campaign also entails an eventual doubling of the number of fugitive
search teams to track down those who do not show up for deportation hearings,
the official said. Further, the Homeland Security Department is working with the
State Department to speed action on visa applications by students, workers and
tourists, in an effort to reduce the incentive to enter the country illegally.

Mr. Chertoff said he sympathized with the governors of New Mexico and Arizona,
each of whom declared a state of emergency in the last 11 days and dispatched
additional state and local law enforcement teams to border areas.

''We are moving forward quickly and aggressively to fashion a comprehensive plan
with real solutions,'' he wrote in a letter sent Monday to Gov. Janet Napolitano
of Arizona.

New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, said in a telephone interview Tuesday
that he spoke with Mr. Chertoff earlier in the morning and was encouraged by
what he was hearing.

''I am a bit more optimistic,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''It is the first time I
have gotten attention to my previous pleas.''

Mr. Chertoff said he opposed the creation of citizen militias like the one that
patrolled the border in Arizona earlier this year.

''The border is a very dangerous place,'' he said. ''This is not a place for
people to play as amateurs.''

He also again urged Congress to pass President Bush's proposal establishing a
new temporary-worker program, which would legalize entry of some migrant workers
who now cross the border illegally. Enactment would almost certainly reduce the
flow of illegal immigrants, he said, allowing Border Patrol and immigration
enforcement officials to focus on more serious offenders, or perhaps even
terrorists, trying to enter the country.

Some immigration experts questioned Tuesday whether this latest push to
stabilize the border would result in much change. For example, these experts
said, the Bush administration has not indicated any willingness to crack down on
employers who hire illegal immigrants.

''If you have a boat with numerous holes in it, the boat will sink unless you
plug all of the holes effectively,'' said Michael W. Cutler, a former senior
immigration enforcement special agent who is now a fellow at the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington research group. ''He is only addressing a few
of the holes, meaning he may slow the flow but it will not solve the problem in
the long run.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Illegal Immigrants Down Helicopter

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 93 words


Illegal immigrants downed a Border Patrol helicopter by throwing rocks that
damaged the rotor, forcing the pilot to make an emergency landing, the agency
said.

Neither person aboard was injured. The A-Star helicopter was two miles west of
Andrade, Calif., on Tuesday when a group of immigrants began throwing rocks at
it. Michael Gramley, a spokesman for the Border Patrol sector based in Yuma,
Ariz., said he did not know how high the helicopter was hovering when it was
struck, but he said it was being repaired. After the incident, 17 people were
apprehended.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 4, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deaths on Border Of Arizona Strain Morgue's Capacity

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Sept. 3


The Pima County medical examiner is using a refrigerated tractor-trailer as a
temporary morgue to store bodies because of a record number of deaths involving
illegal border crossers.

The county's morgue has a capacity of 120 bodies. The 18-wheeler can hold an
additional 60 to 70 bodies, depending on whether the remains are intact or
skeletal.

Dr. Bruce Parks, the county's chief medical examiner, said the county morgue
needed to build another permanent cooler to double its capacity.

''If conditions continue like this, it's something we'll have to face every
year,'' Parks said.

More than 200 illegal immigrants are known to have died in Arizona's southern
desert in the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, according to a review of medical
examiner and Mexican consulate records.

The Tucson Sector of the Border Patrol, which includes all of Arizona except
Yuma and a strip on the state's western edge, puts the number of bodies found at
193.

That is 72 more than at this point the previous year and well above the 141
counted for the previous fiscal year, said Jose Garza, a spokesman for the
Border Patrol in Tucson.

The bodies found in Pima County go to the medical examiner's office, which
exceeded capacity earlier this summer and had to expand into a rented portable
facility, Parks said.

The county rented a truck in May 2001 after the bodies of 14 illegal immigrants
were found in the desert east of Yuma.

The tractor-trailer was ordered in late July after the morgue was inundated with
the bodies of illegal immigrants and the cooler had no reserve space, Parks
said.

The rig costs $1,000 a week to rent and operate.

Parks estimates that handling the bodies of illegal immigrants costs the medical
examiner's office more than $100,000 a year.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 5, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fox Says U.S. Shares Blame For Problems Along Border

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 4


President Vicente Fox responded over the weekend to criticism from American
authorities about a recent surge in violence and illegal immigration along the
border, saying that the United States shares responsibility for the problems and
should work harder with Mexico to fix them.

Mr. Fox said he rejected ''forcefully'' the statements by the Bush
administration and governors of border states, contending that they had unfairly
depicted Mexico as a safe haven for organized crime, though his government has
arrested more leading drug traffickers and dismantled more cartels than any of
its predecessors. He also said Mexican immigrants had been portrayed unfairly as
potential terrorists when they had in fact become a pillar of the American
economy.

In an interview aboard the presidential airplane on Saturday, Mr. Fox
acknowledged that his government had a long way to go to make the border secure.
But he said the United States should stop casting blame for problems created by
both countries.

He also said the United States should not allow concerns about border security
to derail efforts to adopt new measures to allow millions of additional Mexicans
to become guest workers in the United States.

''Security is a shared responsibility,'' President Fox said. Then, referring to
the United States, he said, ''I don't understand that now they only cast blame
and accusations, and they do not collaborate or cooperate so that together we
can resolve this problem.''

On the changes in immigration policy, he said: ''There is will on the part of
President Bush, according to what he has expressed publicly, and what he has
expressed in conversations with us. So, I trust that in the coming weeks and
months, we will succeed finally in arriving at a positive resolution for the
benefit of both countries.''

More pressing realities, however, may once again stand in the way. Work on
immigration policy was first postponed four years ago, after the Sept. 11
attacks. Then it was put off for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. Now, it may be
set aside again as the United States struggles to recover from Hurricane
Katrina.

But Mr. Fox has little time left; he is entering his last year in office.

His comments were aimed at what many here perceive as a troubling shift in
United States attitudes and diplomatic policy toward Mexico.

In recent weeks, the United States has openly berated Mexico for failing to stop
a wave of drug-related violence that has taken close to 1,000 lives along the
2,000-mile border. The Bush administration has issued numerous travel advisories
and temporarily closed its consulate in the city of Nuevo Laredo, which has
turned into a murder capital as drug traffickers fight for control of lucrative
routes into Texas.

Last month, the governors of New Mexico and Arizona declared states of
emergency, saying they needed federal help to fend off a flood of undocumented
migrants.

Neither Mr. Fox nor his aides denied the problems. But the authorities here said
that the responses from the United States did not reflect the complexities of
the problems, nor did they acknowledge that Mexico had undertaken significant
efforts to address them.

''This self-sustained blaming someone else, is it going to help anything?'' said
a high-level intelligence official who asked not to be named because of the
diplomatic sensitivities involved. ''If everyone in the United States keeps
profiting politically from this very difficult situation, then we are not going
to be able to make things better.'' He added, ''We are trying to do our job,
even with our limited resources.''

Mr. Fox said trade and other day-to-day interactions between the countries had
not been affected by the political tensions, and he said he trusted that
President Bush would not allow concerns over security to stall efforts to pass
changes in immigration requirements.

''Let there be no doubt, that we are going to win this battle,'' he said,
referring to his government's efforts in Nuevo Laredo. ''So it cannot be used as
a pretext to provoke a distancing in relations between the United States and
Mexico.''

He said his country shared the pain of the hurricane. An estimated 140,000
Mexicans were affected, he said, and 70,000 are unaccounted for. But now, he
said, the contributions of Mexican workers could be more important than ever.

''The reconstruction of that city and of that region is going to require a lot
of labor,'' Mr. Fox said of New Orleans, Mississippi and Alabama. ''And if there
is anything Mexicans are good at, it is construction.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

On a Border in Crisis, There's No Bolting a Busy Gate

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Josefa Ortiz de Dominguez Journal;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: JOSEFA ORTIZ DE DOMINGUEZ, Mexico


If it were up to Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, this tiny village, known
more commonly as Las Chepas, would be bulldozed to the ground.

In the last three years, authorities on both sides said, this parched stretch of
the United States-Mexico border -- where summer temperatures soar to 110 degrees
and, until recently, Border Patrol agents have been relatively scarce -- has
become one of the busiest gateways for illegal migration to the United States.
Detentions of migrants here have jumped to more than 41,000 this year, from
23,000 all of last year.

Most of the people on the north side of the border view the widening flow of
immigrants with disdain, saying the border-crossers trample and litter the
alfalfa and vegetable fields. In response to their pleas for help, Governor
Richardson declared a state of emergency and asked Mexican authorities to knock
Las Chepas down.

Almost no one is left is living on the south side of the border to object. Most
of the people of Las Chepas moved north in the mid-1980's when the United States
offered an amnesty for Mexicans who had been working on the American side of the
border. The houses here have been empty so long they have begun falling down
anyway.

But the 100 or so people who remain say that bulldozing Las Chepas will not
change the forces of migration.

''If they don't cross here, they'll find somewhere else to cross,'' said
Francisco Molina, who had turned his house into a kind of immigrant rest stop.
''But they are not going to stop.''

As the sun began to set, buses of migrants began pulling in to Las Chepas. The
travelers filed off quickly, bought ham sandwiches from Mr. Molina and then sat
behind a mud brick wall, out of the sight of the United States Border Patrol,
until dark.

There were nearly 300 by nightfall. They were afraid to talk much, and none of
those interviewed gave their names. Mostly they answered in half sentences, and
dodged painful questions about the families they had left behind with crude
jokes about the American women they looked forward to marrying so they could
become citizens.

They came from almost every corner of Mexico and were headed to almost every
corner of the United States. Two of the men, brothers from the state of Hidalgo,
opened up a little bit. They explained that they had been moving back and forth
across the border illegally for the last 10 years. They said they had worked all
over the United States, as waiters, carpenters, meat packers and, most recently,
in the strawberry fields around Salinas, Calif.

One brother, 32, said he drove a tractor. The other, 30, said he was a picker.

The first time they entered the United States, the brothers said, they crossed
at Tijuana. But then the United States put more officers there.

After that, the brothers said, they began crossing the Sonoran Desert into
Arizona, but the United States beefed up patrols there.

This was the first time the brothers had come to the Mexican state of Chihuahua,
across the border from New Mexico. They had heard the crossing here was easy.
But after Governor Richardson declared a state of emergency last month, the
federal government sent an additional 300 Border Patrol agents.

The brothers said they had already tried crossing four times but were spotted
each time and ran back. They were tired, but not discouraged, and vowed they
would keep trying until they made it, for one reason.

''In Mexico, we can make 600 pesos a week,'' the tractor driver said. ''That's
about $60. I cannot even buy enough bread for my children with that.

''In the United States, I make $600 a week.''

When asked whether they had ever had a hard time finding work in the United
States, the other brother interrupted.

''This is the hard part,'' he said, pointing over the wall. ''The rest is
easy.''

It is a two-day walk across this inhospitable terrain, they said, from here to
Interstate 10. In addition to the ovenlike temperatures, the desert is crawling
with rattlesnakes and scorpions. Smugglers of immigrants sometimes take the
migrants' money and leave them stranded, and gangs sometimes raid their camps
and rob them.

Immigrants often get disoriented and lost. An increasing number die. Nearly 400
people have died of exposure trying to cross the border this year, a record,
officials at the United States Border Patrol report.

One migrant looked different from most of the others, clean-shaven and dressed
like a church deacon.

He said he was 51 years old and had lived in New York City, working odd jobs for
15 years. The migrant said he returned to his homeland in 2000, after Mexico
elected its first opposition president, Vicente Fox.

''I thought it was a good time to come back, and give something to my country,''
he said.

Mexico, he said, took everything from him. He said he tried to start two
businesses, first a restaurant, then a convenience store. Local officials kept
demanding taxes and payments for licenses, he said. Soon they just demanded
bribes and threatened to shut him down if he did not pay.

So now he was headed back to Queens, this time with his 22-year-old daughter.
The daughter said she had studied computers, but could not find a job at home.

''I hope someone will give me a chance in the United States,'' she said,
''because my country closed all doors to me.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mexican migrants riding the bus from Palomas, Chihuahua, to
Josefa Ortiz de Dominguez, known as Las Chepas, an area for illegal border
crossing. Below, migrant protection agency workers handed out pamphlets.
(Photographs by Christ Chavez for The New York Times)Map of Mexico highlighting
Josefa Ortiz de Dominguez.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Choices on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 114 words



To the Editor:

Re ''A Passion for Immigration Reform'' (editorial, Dec. 29):

I applaud the efforts of the president, my state's representatives and anyone
else who is working for humane and enforceable immigration reform. It is one of
the most pressing issues of our times.

Unfortunately, until the oligarchs who still control many Latin American
countries have been convinced to make significant institutional reforms to
reduce the pressures on their countrymen to emigrate to the United States, our
own efforts at immigration reform will be only minimally successful.

We must focus our reform efforts on both sides of the immigration problem.

Roger Toronto
Pinetop, Ariz., Dec. 29, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The President's Shoelaces

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 450 words


In a round of pre-inauguration interviews, President Bush has repeatedly said
he's serious about immigration reform. When it comes to fixing a ''broken''
immigration system, the president keeps sending messages that he is not giving
up, despite the noise coming from the send-'em-home crowd in his own party. Over
at the House of Representatives, this steadfast support of a more humane
immigration system has made some anti-immigration folks very unhappy. They have
accused him of being ''petulant,'' of jeopardizing his whole agenda by pushing
this difficult issue. As Representative J.D. Hayworth, a Republican from
Arizona, told The Washington Times last week, ''It would just be sad for the
president to tie his shoelaces together right out of the starting block.''

With friends like these at his back, Mr. Bush deserves more public support from
the Republicans who can be more thoughtful on this issue, like Senator John
McCain of Arizona and Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the new chairman of the
Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. Democrats should also start to
rally behind the White House on this issue, especially if people like Senator
Edward Kennedy can participate in the crafting of such an important reform that
could make the system fairer, safer and more humane.

The president has repeatedly said in recent months that he does not want an
amnesty or ''instant citizenship'' for the 8 million to 10 million undocumented
aliens who live and work in America. Instead, Mr. Bush has been talking in
general about a guest-worker program that would be designed to give legal status
to those now doing jobs Americans refuse to do. But the president also
increasingly seems to be acknowledging the key to such a program, which is that
these workers must be offered a path to American citizenship. Certainly, they
cannot be allowed to jump the very long queue that already exists. But what
undocumented workers would come out of the shadows willingly if it meant an
automatic one-way ticket back to their native land?

Mr. Bush also seems to have found a good way recently to talk to those who see
any illegal immigrant as a security risk. He told The Wall Street Journal that
he believes a better guest-worker program will immediately improve border
security. If it is unnecessary for thousands of workers to cross the nation's
borders secretly, the ones who do try to sneak across ''may be involved in
something other than labor,'' as the president explained. If the Bush
immigration system can be more humane, fair and even secure, the president
deserves support, especially from his conservative friends.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Guard, America

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 251 words


In the name of foiling potential terrorists, the House has passed a misbegotten
immigration control bill that would make it harder for persecuted immigrants to
get political asylum in this country. One of the nation's bedrock principles --
sanctuary -- would be badly crimped by the measure, which would also block
states from granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

Eleven states grant such licenses as a way to encourage highway safety and
accident insurance coverage.

The House measure, called the Real ID bill, has been denounced as a human rights
retreat by the Catholic bishops conference and other champions of immigrant
rights. It would require political asylum applicants to offer greater evidence
of persecution and give judges less power to reverse asylum denials by
immigration officials. The bill drew a last-minute endorsement from the White
House, which is seeking to curry favor for President Bush's proposal to create
guest worker visas. But even administration officials expressed misgivings about
the asylum strictures.

The bill would also undermine work by federal agencies and the states to come up
with national standards for securing driver's licenses. That effort -- which was
ordered up by Congress -- is a far more sensible approach than the hurriedly
cobbled-together House measure, which was passed without benefit of committee
hearings.

The Senate must defeat this measure: being anti-terrorist doesn't have to walk
hand in hand with being anti-immigrant.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Approves $81.26 Billion in a Military Emergency Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21


The Senate on Thursday unanimously approved its version of an $81.26 billion
supplemental emergency military spending bill, setting the stage for a tug of
war over immigration policy, death benefits for military families, the price of
a new embassy in Baghdad and other provisions in reconciling the House and
Senate versions of the bill.

The final bill is likely to have a major impact on the contentious subjects of
United States policy on immigration and border security. The House version
incorporated provisions blocking states from issuing standard driver's licenses
to illegal immigrants, making it harder for immigrants to win asylum, and
circumventing environmental rules to build a barrier along the border with
Mexico near San Diego.

But after the House acted on immigration, the Senate moved in the opposite
direction, expanding the number of foreigners whom employers could hire as
temporary seasonal workers. A dozen senators from both parties wrote a letter to
Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, urging him to fight the
House asylum provisions in the conference as a potential impediment to refugees
from human rights violations abroad. ''I think the president is going to have
some voice too on this,'' said Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas and
one of the signers of the letter.

The White House, however, has expressed support for the driver'slicense
restrictions, making it more likely that they will remain in the final bill.
Many advocates of other immigration policy changes, such as the president's
proposed foreign guest-worker program, call enacting the driver's license
requirement a necessary concession to House conservatives.

On Wednesday and Thursday, the Senate also added two amendments to pay for more
border patrol agents, taking $400 million from the budget of the State
Department and $147 million from international peacekeeping accounts,
respectively.

The Senate also incorporated two slight rebuffs to President Bush on Iraq. On
Monday, the Senate voted 61 to 31 to adopt an amendment proposed by Senator
Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, urging the president to forecast the
costs of the United States military involvement and to incorporate them in
regular military spending bills instead of later supplemental bills.

On Wednesday, Senate Republicans incorporated without a vote an amendment
sponsored by Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Richard
J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, requiring the administration to report to
Congress every three months on progress toward training Iraqi security forces
and about the expected requirements for troops in Iraq. ''The administration
owes it to our troops and the American people to be more candid about real
progress in training Iraqi security forces,'' Mr. Kennedy said.

The Senate's $81.26 billion bill is only slightly lower than the $82 billion
sought by the president and the $81.4 billion approved by the House. But there
are thorny differences the conference will need to resolve.

On the emotional subject of death benefits for the family of military personnel,
the Senate included an amendment to raise the benefits to $500,000 from $12,420
for families of those killed while on duty. The House version raises benefits
only for families of those killed in combat.

The Senate also included $549 million that the administration had requested for
the construction of an embassy in Baghdad. The House declined to provide the
money.

Another area of dispute concerns aid to Palestinians. Current law requires the
president to make periodic reports to Congress about how such aid is spent. The
president's supplemental budget proposed eliminating that requirement, but
instead the House blocked any direct aid at all, allowing only contributions to
third parties. The Senate took a middle path retaining the current laws.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2005



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about the Senate's passage of an $81.26 billion
supplementary bill for emergency military spending and a chart comparing the
Senate and House versions misstated the amount earmarked for the construction of
an embassy in Baghdad. It is $592 million, not $549 million.



GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Some Differences on War Spending Bills''Some main differences
in versions of the supplemental spending bill for the 2005 fiscal year as passed
by the House and Senate:OVERALL SPENDINGHouse $81version.4 billion
$76.8 billion for the militarySenate versionAbout $81.3 billion
$74.8 billion for the militaryEMBASSY IN BAGHDADHouse version: No
provision.Senate version: Includes $549 million for construction.MILITARY DEATH
BENEFITSHouse version: Increases financial benefits for bereaved families if a
death was combat-related.Senate version: Increases the benefits for families
whether the death was combatrelated or not.IMMIGRATION PROVISIONSHouse
versionDenies driver's licenses to illegal immigrants and allow a fence along
the California-Mexico border, among other provisions.Senate versionExpands the
number of foreigners employers could hire as temporary seasonal workers.AIRCRAFT
CARRIERSHouse version: No provision.Senate version: Requires that the Navy
maintain its fleet of 12 aircraft carriers. The Pentagon had proposed
eliminating one.(Sources by Senate Appropriations Committee
 Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 10, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hurdles for Technology In U.S. Security Efforts

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1623 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7


The federal government has been pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into the
once-obscure science called biometrics, producing some successes but also
fumbles in a campaign intended to track foreigners visiting the country and the
activities of some Americans.

Hoping to block the entry of criminals and terrorists into the United States and
to improve the enforcement of immigration laws, government officials have in the
past several years created enormous new repositories of digitally recorded
biometric data -- including fingerprints and facial characteristics -- that can
be used to identify more than 45 million foreigners. Federal agencies have also
assembled data on more than 70 million Americans in an effort to speed
law-abiding travelers through checkpoints and to search for domestic terrorists.

The immigration control and antiterrorism campaign was spurred by the Sept. 11
attacks and subsequent Congressional mandates to improve the nation's security.
But the effort has fallen far short of its goals, provoking criticism that the
government is committed to a technological solution so ambitious that it will
either never work or be achieved only at an unacceptably high price.

''I am not satisfied,'' said Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of
California, who is chairman of a House panel that helps oversee the effort. ''We
are stumbling toward progress. I would hope we would be sprinting.''

In defending its record, the Department of Homeland Security points to arrests
along the nation's borders. In the past year, thanks to a new system that allows
Border Patrol agents to check quickly and comprehensively the fingerprints of
every illegal immigrant detained near the border, officers have identified 437
people wanted, previously charged or convicted of homicide; 579 who had sexual
assault records and more than 18,000 others with records involving robberies,
drugs, kidnappings or assaults.

The State Department said new facial recognition software had also uncovered
visa fraud. The software identified 5,731 applicants to the annual visa lottery
program who had doctored their names or otherwise cheated. They included people
who each submitted at least a dozen applications and tried to disguise
themselves with different hairstyles, glasses or expressions.

But the biometric effort still has a long way to go. The State Department, for
example, recently started to test so-called electronic passports that contain a
small computer chip that holds a digital photograph of the owner. [The
department announced on Tuesday that it would begin issuing the electronic
passports in December.] But even with the chip, officials at entry points will
only have a bigger photograph to compare with the person seeking entry instead
of a computer-based biometric analysis that could determine with certainty
whether the passport holder was the legal passport owner.

''When it's all in place, there's still no real additional security or at least
it's of marginal value,'' Representative Christopher Cox, Republican of
California, said before he stepped down as chairman of the House Committee on
Homeland Security to become the head of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

In all but a few locations, another new program, US-Visit -- which has cost $1
billion and could exceed $10 billion -- can only record foreigners' arrivals,
not their departures, meaning it is far from delivering on its promise of
creating an immigration tracking system.

The high cost comes from the extensive computer networks that must be built to
tie together the data and make it accessible to United States officials around
the world.

''We are still just in the formative stages of this,'' said Rey Koslowski, a
political science professor at the University at Albany and the author of a
recent report that questioned whether the program's goals could ever be met.
''Now may be the time to scale back the mission.''

The science of biometrics relies on unique human characteristics -- including
fingerprints, facial dimensions or the rings and furrows in the colored tissue
of the eye -- that can verify a person's identity. The government programs that
rely on biometrics -- at least eight are under way at the Homeland Security and
State Departments alone -- want to remove the uncertainty involved in using a
traditional passport, visa or other identification document.

The enhanced screening starts at the 207 State Department visa processing
locations around the world. Since late last year, almost all applicants must be
fingerprinted and submit a photograph. The prints are transmitted to Washington,
where the Department of Homeland Security compares them to a database of about
five million people, mostly criminals, who may be ineligible to receive a visa.

In rural Kentucky, the State Department has put another biometric tool to work.
At its visa processing center there, staff members use facial recognition
software to compare applicants against a database of digital images of 45
million foreigners -- collected from a decade's worth of applications -- to see
if any had previously applied under a different identity. The screening is being
tested on small numbers of applications but will be expanded to all applications
starting next year.

Facial recognition systems, which look at skin texture and the facial geography
like the distances between the eye sockets or the point of a nose and an
eyebrow, are much less accurate than fingerprint-based systems, requiring
members of the State Department to examine every reported match.

But the system has been effective, particularly as a fraud-prevention tool in
the competition for 50,000 special immigration visas that the State Department
offers each year.

The software also spotted the same photograph of a Cambodian child in nine
applications with different names, dates of birth and sets of parents.

The screening continues when foreigners come into the country. At domestic
security checkpoints, visitors with visas are again fingerprinted and
photographed to verify that they are the same people who were given the travel
documents. If they are from 27 so-called visa waiver nations -- mostly in Europe
-- they are fingerprinted and photographed for the first time. The federal
government uses the data to check against watch lists and to share with law
enforcement officials.

Perhaps the most effective effort so far is along the Mexican border, in places
like Nogales, Ariz. More than 490,000 people were caught near Nogales last year
trying to enter the United States illegally.

Five years ago, the only way to conduct a comprehensive criminal check of
fingerprints was to fax the prints to a central processing center, which could
take hours.

By last year, all 136 Border Patrol stations were linked to the F.B.I.
fingerprint system, which produces results in two minutes.

The checks turned up 113,747 criminal record hits in the last 11 months, or
about 7 out of every 50 detainees, compared with 1 in 50 before the new system
was installed, a Customs and Border Patrol official said.

''Before, you might have a hunch that some guy was not right, but there was
nothing you could do to check further -- you just did not have the time,'' Luke
Bilow, a senior patrol agent at Nogales, said.

Among those identified were fugitives that included Francisco Martinez, a
Mexican wanted for questioning last year in connection with the killing of his
cousin in Florida. Mr. Martinez had fled while the investigation was under way,
but turned up at a Border Patrol roadside stop in New Mexico.

The federal government also intends to use biometrics to screen Americans. The
State Department has assembled a database of high-resolution digital images of
passport applications -- including photographs -- submitted in the past decade
by 70 million Americans.

In conjunction with facial recognition technology, the photos may eventually be
used to detect fraudulent passport applications, one State Department official
said. Law enforcement officials at the National Counterterrorism Center now have
access to the photos for investigations into possible terrorist activity.

At six American airports, A.T.M.-like machines automatically read fingerprints
and do eye scans of the irises of passengers enrolled in Registered Traveler, a
Homeland Security Department program intended to speed the movement of ''trusted
travelers,'' who also had to undergo background checks.

The cost of the program has been modest, $20 million in the last two years. But
many critics question its value. Relatively few passengers take part because
they must still wait in line to pass through metal detectors and have their bags
X-rayed.

At Reagan National Airport outside Washington last Monday morning, one of the
busiest times of the week, not a single passenger used the Registered Traveler
ID machines for an hour, while hundreds of others passed through the regular
checkpoints.

''It offers no benefit to our passengers,'' Robert Isom, a Northwest Airlines
senior vice president, told a House panel in June.

Mr. Isom suggested that officials consider abandoning the program.

Starting this week, the Homeland Security Department is testing a system that
automatically tracks people as they cross land borders by issuing visas that
transmit radio signals. But critics have pointed out that a person intent on
circumventing the system could simply give his visa to someone else to carry
across the border, because there is no biometric check.

''If we ever catch a terrorist, we will only catch an extremely dumb
terrorist,'' said a federal official who asked not to be named because he was
criticizing the program he was involved in.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scanned fingerprints can be viewed on a computer monitor.
(Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)
Passengers at Reagan National Airport in Washington can register for special
screening, but few do because they still must wait in lines. (Photo by Stephen
Crowley/The New York Times)
This woman from Russia was caught attempting to disguise herself with at least a
dozen hairstyles in order to submit multiple applications to the Diversity Visa
program.Chart/Photos: ''Mixed Success Using Biometrics''Since the Sept. 11
attacks, the United States government has significantly expanded the use of
identification systems that rely on biometrics, which are unique human
characteristics like the shape of a fingerprint or a face. A look at some of the
government's programs and the challenges they face.PROGRAM -- Diversity Visa
program -- Offers visas annually through a lottery to people from countries with
low rates of immigration to the United States.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- Uses new
facial recognition software to search through millions of applicants for
rulebreakers who enter more than once.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- Out of the pool
of this year's potential winners, 5,731 were disqualified after facial
recognition software revealed they had cheated.PROGRAM -- Biometric Visas -- A
new system for issuing visas for many foreigners.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- Digitally
stored fingerprints and photographs taken at country of origin and used in
background and identity checks.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- In less than a year,
about 7 million fingerprints of visa applicants have been checked, producing
more than 8,500 hits against the watch list.PROGRAM -- Border Crossing Card --
Cards issued to certain Mexican citizens. Allows them to pass into the United
States for a limited time in a limited area.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- The cards,
first introduced in the late 1990's, contain digitally stored fingerprints and
photographs that confirm the cardholder's identity.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES --
Cards are often abused because Customs agents don't have the staff or equipment
to compare routinely real fingerprints with the card. The cards enable them to
work illegally in the U.S.PROGRAM -- Passport Records Imaging System Management
-- Newly compiled digital archive of 70 million U.S. passport applications and
photographs dating back to 1994.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- Digitized photograph is a
biometric element, but the archive is not currently being used as a true
biometric system. It may play such a role in the future as a fraud prevention
check.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- Perhaps largest federal repository of digital
images of the American public, which law enforcement officials will have at
least some access to
the system elicits privacy concerns.PROGRAM -- Electronic Passport -- Embedded
computer chip in new passports can hold digital images and biographical data
about passport owner.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- Radio signal transmits digital
photographs, a biometric element and biographical data to Customs officials at
checkpoint.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- No immediate plans to use the digital photos
for identity confirmation because of weaknesses in facial recognition software
and the inability to take high-quality photographs that would be necessary at
checkpoints for a certain match.PROGRAM -- US-VISIT -- Largest, most expensive
initiative, expected to cost perhaps $10 billion, intended to track the entry
and exit of all foreign visitors.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- Fingerprints and digital
photos taken from most foreign visitors at all airports and major seaports, used
to confirm their identity.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- Less than a quarter of all
foreign visitors are being checked upon entry
 most visitors at land borders are now exempt. Even smaller numbers of visitors
are checked upon exit.PROGRAM -- Border Patrol fingerprint check -- All Border
Patrol posts are now linked into an F.B.I. database of 47 million fingerprint
records.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- Posts use the fingerprint database to check whether
detainees are wanted or have criminal records.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- Officials
are about seven times more likely to identify someone with a criminal record
than in years past.PROGRAM -- Transportation Worker Identification Credential --
Biometric entry-control cards for population of up to 12 million workers from
air, port, truck and train industries.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- Prototype now in use.
Uses fingerprints and digital photographs. May ultimately use hand geometry and
iris scans.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- Its start is more than a year behind
schedule, frustrating industry officials. Millions of required background checks
could cost some people their jobs, already a controversy.PROGRAM -- Registered
Traveler -- Pilot program that 12,000 people have enrolled in. Intended to
accelerate movement at airport security checkpoints.USE OF BIOMETRICS -- A
fingerprint or iris scan is used to confirm a person's identity at the
checkpoint entrance.CHALLENGES, SUCCESSES -- There are few benefits to people
who sign up, as they still must pass through the metal detector and put bags
though an X-ray machine.(Sources by Department of Homeland Security, State
Department)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sudan Conflict Reaches U.S. Immigration Courts

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1156 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Sept. 28


The immigration judge called the case, and the asylum seeker from Africa took
his seat in the courtroom here. After raising his right hand and swearing to
tell the truth, he began a methodical account of his suffering at the hands of
the Arab militias that have killed and maimed thousands of black Africans in the
Darfur region of Sudan. The man, Fadl Ibrahim Mohammed, presented the scars on
his body as evidence.

''They burned and left scars here,'' said Mr. Mohammed, 36, speaking in Arabic
through a court-appointed interpreter as he extended his left arm to the judge
last week. ''They also broke my teeth with the bottom of a rifle.''

Mr. Mohammed testified about the razing of his village, torture by the militia
members and the journey from Sudan to Newark Liberty International Airport. His
voice shook only once, when he described the bombs falling from planes and the
broken bodies around him in a refugee camp along the border with Chad.

''At that time, my father got killed and my brothers,'' he said. ''And three of
my children and my wife.''

The destruction of entire communities in Darfur by Arab militias equipped by the
Sudanese government often seems a distant conflict even as it has brought
condemnations from the White House, Congress and the United Nations. But in
recent weeks, the faraway crisis has quietly begun spilling into American
immigration courts.

This month, judges began hearing from both Mr. Mohammed and a second asylum
seeker who were described by lawyers as among the first to seek refuge in the
United States from the violence in Sudan. Officials say they believe that only a
few refugees from that conflict have found the means or opportunity to make
their way to this country.

Mr. Mohammed, who has been detained by immigration officials since his arrival
in Newark in June, says he is battling for his life, trying to prove to American
authorities that he is a cattle herder and trader fleeing the killings in Sudan.

Immigration officials are now challenging his claim, suggesting he may be an
imposter from Chad playing on the sympathies of American officials, who declared
this month that the violence in Darfur constituted genocide.

The advocacy group Human Rights First has rallied to his defense and enlisted a
lawyer to handle his case. A judge is expected to determine this week whether
Mr. Mohammed will be deported or granted asylum. The second asylum seeker, whose
identity as Sudanese is also being questioned, is expected to have his petition
decided in a few weeks.

The cases are unfolding in modest courtrooms behind the metal doors of the
immigration detention center here, where the two men are being held. Amid the
exhibits and affidavits, judges and lawyers are piecing together the stories of
two men who say they were caught in the conflict that has created the largest
humanitarian crisis in the world.

Government officials familiar with Mr. Mohammed's petition for asylum say it is
a wrenching case, with some evidence to support his claim and some nagging
questions that undermine it.

Such cases are often hard to decide because of the difficulties in producing
documentary evidence from war-torn countries, the number of immigrants willing
to lie to remain in the United States, and because the stakes are so high, said
Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.

Immigration lawyers and government officials say it is rare for asylum cases to
go unchallenged by government lawyers, who routinely raise questions about
petitioners' identities, documents and claims of threats.

''No one wants to send someone back to face persecution,'' Mr. Strassberger
said. ''But one of the first things we have to establish is that the person is
who he says he is and that his story is his story.''

''It can be very sympathetic,'' he said, ''but is it true, is it accurate and
does it apply to that person?''

Mr. Mohammed's lawyer, Michael W. Hanna, said his client had presented
compelling evidence despite his difficulties in gathering documents from a war
zone. The Arabic-speaking airport official who questioned Mr. Mohammed in Newark
believed he was from Sudan, even though he was carrying a passport from Chad, in
part because he found a letter in Arabic in Mr. Mohammed's luggage that
suggested he was from Sudan.

The Department of Homeland Security initially advised him that it believed he
was ''a native of Sudan and a citizen of Sudan.''

But in court, Patrice Rodman, a lawyer for the department, questioned how Mr.
Mohammed had managed to get a passport from Chad if he was not a citizen there.
Ms. Rodman also challenged his assertion that he did not speak French.

How then, she asked, could he have convinced the authorities in Chad, where
French is the official language, that he was a citizen?

Mr. Mohammed, who says he fled his village after it was attacked in 2003, said
he had been lucky enough to be driven to the capital of Chad by men who he
believed were relief workers shortly after his refugee camp was bombed that
year.

He said he was hospitalized there for about a week, then lived mostly in hiding
to avoid the authorities in Chad who were arresting Sudanese in the country
illegally. After several months he obtained a passport using another man's
identity documents and borrowed enough money for a plane ticket to America.

Because Chad has an Arabic-speaking minority, he said, officials never
questioned why he did not speak French.

''I thought, with God willing,'' Mr. Mohammed said through the translator, ''I
would be able to live in the United States.''

For his asylum hearing, Mr. Mohammed arranged for a relative in Sudan to send
his lawyer a Sudanese identity document that contained his photograph. He has
also presented his father's identity document. Tests here indicated that his
document had not been tampered with, but could not determine its authenticity.

In court, Ms. Rodman also noted that he lacked medical records from the hospital
in Chad. She said there was little reason to believe him because he had lied to
officials in Chad to get a passport and presented himself to the first American
inspector as a citizen of Chad.

''Do you have any other documents to establish your identity?'' she asked.

Mr. Mohammed said he did not. He said he had lied because it was the only way to
escape.

Mr. Hanna, his lawyer, said: ''Fleeing a war zone in such a situation
complicates the gathering of evidence and that has to be taken into
consideration. He's a cattle herder from Sudan. It's not as if he knew anything
about American asylum law.''

Mr. Hanna said that his client suffered from depression and worried about his
second wife and his two remaining children, who were separated from him in
Sudan.

But in court, Mr. Mohammed indicated that he still hoped he would find safe
haven in this country. ''I was looking for peace and safety,'' he testified.
''That's why I came to the United States.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael W. Hanna represents a man who says he fled Sudan. (Photo
by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Patients Won't Be Asked Immigration Status

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1


The Bush administration said on Friday that it was backing off plans to require
hospitals to ask emergency room patients their immigration status, after
hospitals and advocates for immigrants protested.

The hospitals and immigrant groups said the questions would make people afraid
to seek care and would lead to public health problems.

Last year's Medicare prescription drug law includes $1 billion over four years
for hospitals that treat illegal immigrants and absorb most of the cost of that
care. A proposal developed over the summer said the hospitals would have to ask
about citizenship questions and how people entered the country to make sure the
new federal money was being spent on emergency services for illegal immigrants.

That prospect gave rise to a torrent of criticism that people would stay away
from emergency rooms rather than provide information that could be used against
them in deportation proceedings, despite the administration's insistence that
the answers would not be used that way.

Dr. Mark McClellan, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said Friday that public health concerns had helped lead him
to decide to determine eligibility in other ways.

''As a result of these pending changes, providers will not be asked -- and
should not ask -- about a patient's citizenship status in order to receive
payment under this program,'' Dr. McClellan said in a letter to hospital and
advocacy groups.

Among the suggestions made to the administration was to collect documentation --
Social Security numbers, driver licenses -- that taken together indicate
immigration status. Dr. McClellan said new rules would soon be issued.

The National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems, representing
more than 100 safety-net hospitals that treat many illegal immigrants, said the
original proposal would create ''peril for those individuals, a public health
threat to the entire community, and higher costs for treating patients at later
disease stages.''

Federal law requires hospitals to care for anyone who walks through their doors.
The costs of such care have forced many hospitals, especially those along the
United States-Mexico border, to close their doors or reduce service.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 16, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Muslim Advocate Sentenced in Libya Dealings

BYLINE: By THOMAS CRAMPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Va., Oct. 15


A prominent advocate for Muslim-Americans was sentenced on Friday to the maximum
penalty of 23 years in prison after pleading guilty to immigration fraud and
illegal business dealings with Libya.

As part of the guilty plea he made in late July, the defendant, Abdurahman
Alamoudi, also acknowledged taking part in an unsuccessful Libyan plot to
assassinate Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to destabilize that country.
The plot came to light after investigators started looking into Mr. Alamoudi's
money transfers from Libya.

''He saw an opportunity to make a buck,'' said Steven P. Ward, who prosecuted
the case for the government. ''This defendant deserves every day of prison that
this court will impose upon him.''

Lawyers for Mr. Alamoudi, 52, sought leniency, saying their client had
unwittingly become entangled in the assassination plot. As president of the
American Muslim Foundation, Mr. Alamoudi, who lives in Northern Virginia, had
extensive access to senior United States government officials and contacts among
prominent Muslims.

''Mr. Alamoudi played a minimum and minor role in a conspiracy,'' said Stanley
Cohen, the lawyer for the defense. ''Much of what happened took place after his
incarceration.''

Speaking a few phrases in his own defense, Mr. Alamoudi expressed remorse.

''I regret my involvement in everything unlawful I did,'' Mr. Alamoudi, dressed
in a green prison uniform, told a courtroom that included many of Washington's
Muslims.

Judge Claude M. Hilton of Federal District Court sentenced Mr. Alamoudi to three
consecutive prison terms amounting to 23 years and fines of more than $20,000.
The three counts included conducting financial transactions with Libya, failing
to report to the Internal Revenue Service money received from overseas and
failure to disclose past contacts with suspected terrorists during the
naturalization process.

As part of his plea, Mr. Alamoudi surrendered his American citizenship, since it
was obtained through fraud, but will retain his permanent resident status.

Defense lawyers said they expected the sentence to be reduced in about a year
because of Mr. Alamoudi's cooperation with investigators.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Rule Drunken Driving Cannot Mean Automatic Deportation of Immigrants

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE; Rachel L. Swarns contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 963 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9


The Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday that driving under the influence of alcohol,
even when serious bodily injury results, is not a ''crime of violence'' for
which an immigrant can be subject to automatic deportation.

The unanimous opinion, written by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, rejected
an interpretation of the law advanced by both the Bush and the Clinton
administrations. The decision opened the door for a Haitian immigrant who was
deported under that interpretation two years ago to return to his family in
Miami.

The immigrant, Josue Leocal, was a lawful permanent resident who had lived in
the United States for 20 years when he was deported for having committed an
''aggravated felony'' -- driving while drunk, running a red light and injuring
two people. He pleaded guilty to violating Florida's drunken-driving law and
served two years in prison.

While he was serving his sentence, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
began proceedings against him, and an immigration judge found him deportable.
The Board of Immigration Appeals upheld the order, as did the United States
Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta.

The Supreme Court accepted Mr. Leocal's appeal, Leocal v. Ashcroft, No. 03-583,
because courts around the country had issued conflicting rulings on whether
drunken driving that results in injury or death fits within Congress's
definition of a ''crime of violence.''

In 1988, Congress made noncitizens subject to automatic deportation after
conviction for an ''aggravated felony,'' defined to include crimes of violence.
Congress subsequently provided two basic definitions of ''crime of violence'':
an offense that includes ''the use, attempted use or threatened use of physical
force'' and any other felony that involves the ''substantial risk'' that
physical force ''may be used.''

Like most state drunken-driving laws, the Florida statute does not require proof
that the driver acted intentionally, or had any particular mental state. The
Bush administration told the justices that the use of force need not be
intentional to bring an offense within the definition of a crime of violence.
''When a drunk driver causes serious bodily injury with his vehicle, he has
necessarily used physical force,'' the administration's brief maintained.

But Chief Justice Rehnquist said this was not a natural meaning of the word
''use.'' Noting that ''when interpreting a statute, we must give words their
ordinary or natural meaning,'' he said, ''While one may, in theory, actively
employ something in an accidental manner, it is much less natural to say that a
person actively employs physical force against another person by accident.'' The
word ''use,'' he continued, ''most naturally suggests a higher degree of intent
than negligent or merely accidental conduct.''

The chief justice, who is undergoing treatment for thyroid cancer, was not on
the bench on Tuesday; he is working at home.

He also wrote in the opinion that the second definition -- a felony that
includes a ''substantial risk'' of using physical force -- did not logically
apply to drunken driving either.

Congress was referring not simply to the possibility that conduct would result
in a possibility of harm, he said, ''but to the risk that the use of physical
force against another might be required in committing a crime.'' He gave the
example of burglary, which he explained ''involves a substantial risk that the
burglar will use force against a victim in completing the crime.''

This was not the first time the court has had to interpret a simple and
seemingly straightforward word like ''use.'' A decision in 1995 rejected the
government's interpretation of a law that imposes a mandatory prison sentence on
anyone who ''uses'' a gun in connection with a drug crime.

The defendant in that case, Bailey v. United States, had a gun in a bag in the
locked trunk of his car. The court held unanimously that the word ''uses'' meant
''active employment'' of the gun during the crime, not simple possession in a
place that was not readily accessible.

Mr. Leocal, whose wife and children are United States citizens, was represented
on a pro bono basis by the law firm of Kind & Spalding. A number of other aliens
either facing deportation or recently deported will benefit from the court's
decision, as well.

With those in Mr. Leocal's position having prevailed in some federal circuits
and not in others, there was no estimate Tuesday of the number of people who
might be affected.

Nationally, more than 79,000 immigrants were deported last year as ''criminal
aliens,'' government figures show. More than 8,000 of them were legal permanent
residents.

The section of the law that the Supreme Court interpreted Tuesday deals only and
explicitly with aggravated felonies deemed ''crimes of violence.'' The decision
will not assist aliens facing deportation under other sections of the
immigration law for other offenses like misdemeanors.

However, Ira Kurzban, a prominent immigration lawyer in Miami, said the decision
would affect immigrants across the country who face deportation for committing
''crimes of violence,'' particularly those with appeals pending before the
United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit.

''It's going to make the difference between people getting deported or not
getting deported,'' said Mr. Kurzban, whose law firm is handling three or four
deportation cases he believes will be affected by Tuesday's decision. ''It's
going to have an immediate and significant impact on a large number of cases.''

Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's immigrant
rights project, called the decision ''a reminder of the critical role of the
courts in reviewing executive-branch decision-making.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2004



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about a Supreme Court decision that driving
under the influence of alcohol was not a ''crime of violence'' for which an
immigrant could automatically be deported misspelled the name of the law firm
that represented the defendant, a Haitian immigrant, without charge. It is King
& Spalding -- not Kind.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 13, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Laws

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 143 words



To the Editor:

At last, a politician wants to try to fix a problem, even though that attempt is
not currently politically correct. And you accuse him of catering to bigots
(''To Serve and Deport,'' editorial, Nov. 9).

Steve Levy, the executive of Suffolk County on Long Island, should be applauded
for his plan to deputize county police officers as federal immigration agents.

Many people feel that federal immigration policy is ineffectual and unenforced.

One word is conspicuously absent from the editorial: illegal. Phrase it however
you want -- ''immigration status,'' ''suspects who lack documentation'' -- it is
still illegal, and therefore criminal.

The only immigrants who might have reason to fear Mr. Levy's plan are those who
are in the United States illegally. Either enforce the laws or repeal them.

Robert J. Hall
Calverton, N.Y., Nov. 10, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 19, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Northwest: Washington: Immigration Fraud Charges

BYLINE: By Eli Sanders (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 79 words


Law enforcement raids led to the arrests of 12 men in the Seattle area on
charges including immigration fraud, bank fraud and weapons violations. Some
were accused of trying to help people from Gambia enter the United States by
giving them fake passports and other documents indicating they were from Sierra
Leone. It has generally been easier for citizens of Sierra Leone to gain asylum
in the United States because of war violence there in recent years.   Eli
Sanders (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 29, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mother, a Child, a Deportation

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 173 words



To the Editor:

Having recently immigrated to the United States, I am familiar with the various
procedures under which an individual can legally reside in this country. While
this is admittedly a long and frustrating process (and certainly not without its
flaws), it is difficult for me to find sympathy for people like Berly Feliz. She
was aware of the need to make the requisite applications with the proper
authorities, yet knowingly remained in this country illegally without ensuring
compliance with its laws.

It troubles me that while on a ''routine visit to renew her work authorization''
she was surprised to find herself deported. She owed it to herself, her family
and the United States to make all the necessary efforts to become a legal
resident.

While I would agree that the country's enforcement of its immigration laws lacks
the elements of consistency and efficiency, we should stand behind the need to
regulate immigration and applaud the attempts to enforce immigration laws.

Deanne Murray
Santa Clara, Calif., Nov. 24, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Asks for Deportation of Demjanjuk

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17


The government said Friday that it had asked an immigration judge to deport John
Demjanjuk, a Ukrainian immigrant and retired autoworker who is accused of
working as a guard at several Nazi camps.

Mr.

Demjanjuk, who was once thought to be the sadistic Nazi death camp guard known
as Ivan the Terrible, has been found guilty of lying to gain entry to the United
States. In April, a federal appeals court affirmed a lower court decision
revoking his American citizenship on multiple grounds, including his ''willing''
service in a unit ''dedicated to exploiting and exterminating'' Jewish civilians
in Nazi-occupied Poland.

A document filed Friday by the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland
Security seeks Mr. Demjanjuk's deportation for his participation in
Nazi-sponsored persecution while serving as an armed SS guard and because he
lied about his wartime job and residences when he applied for an immigration
visa in 1952. It was not clear where he might be sent.

The United States accused Mr. Demjanjuk in 1977 of being Ivan the Terrible at
the Treblinka death camp. Extradited to Israel, he was tried and sentenced to
death. But subsequent evidence from the former Soviet Union undermined
eyewitness testimony, and Israel's supreme court freed him in 1993.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Ashcroft Won't Aid Asylum Seeker

BYLINE: By John Files (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 128 words


Attorney General John Ashcroft has declined to intervene in an immigration case
for a Guatemalan seeking asylum in the United States on the ground that she was
persecuted because of her sex. The Department of Homeland Security had
recommended that Mr. Ashcroft grant her asylum, federal officials said. The
woman, Rodi Alvarado Pena, says she fled her country to escape an abusive
husband. The matter will be returned to the Board of Immigration Appeals, Mrs.
Alvarado's lawyer said. The security department and the Justice Department are
considering rules to permit asylum in cases like Mrs. Alvarado's, opening the
door to women fleeing countries that condone severe domestic abuse, genital
mutilation and other forms of acute violence against women.   John Files (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 26, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: New Voting Rules Authorized

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 117 words


Federal voting rights enforcers authorized the state to enact new voter
identification rules required by an immigration law that voters approved in
November as Proposition 200. The law generally requires that people provide
proof of citizenship, like a birth certificate, when registering to vote and
show specified forms of identification when voting at a polling place. A civil
rights group and Democratic legislators recently urged the Department of Justice
to reject the requirements, contending the changes would pose barriers to voting
by minorities. Because of the state's history of violations of minorities'
voting rights, Arizona must obtain federal approval of all election laws and
regulations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Orders Islamic Fund-Raiser Deported

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 8


A federal immigration judge on Tuesday ordered a former fund-raiser for a
prominent Islamic charity to be deported, saying his activities posed a threat
to national security.

The judge found that the man, Abdel Jabber Hamdan, who has lived in Orange
County for more than 20 years, knew or should have known that the money he
raised for the Holy Land Foundation was being used to support terrorism. The
government contends that the foundation has funneled more than $12 million to
Hamas and other Palestinian organizations that the United States considers
sponsors of terrorism.

The immigration judge, D.D. Sitgraves, ordered Mr. Hamdan, 44, who has been in
custody since last summer, deported. But Judge Sitgraves said he could not be
sent to Jordan, where he was born in a Palestinian refugee camp, because he
would be at risk of torture by the Jordanian government because he has been
accused by the American authorities of terror-related activities.

Mr. Hamdan's lawyer, Marc Van Der Hout, said he was likely to appeal the
deportation order, saying the government had not proven that Mr. Hamdan had
knowingly aided terrorists.

But Mr. Van Der Hout expressed gratitude that Judge Sitgraves had recognized the
risk of sending Mr. Hamdan back to Jordan.

''We are happy Mr. Hamdan has been granted at least temporary protection from
being returned to Jordan,'' he said, ''as it is clear his life would be in grave
danger there.''

Federal officials shut down the Holy Land Foundation and confiscated its assets
shortly after the September 2001 terrorist attacks. The principal officers of
the foundation, which was based in Dallas and was once the largest Islamic
charity in the United States, were arrested last summer on terrorism-related
charges. The judge in that case ordered the men released on their own
recognizance, saying the government had not proved that they were a national
security risk.

Mr. Hamdan was picked up as part of the same investigation, but was never
charged with a crime. He was instead locked up in a Department of Homeland
Security immigration jail in Los Angeles last August on charges of violating the
terms of his student visa granted 25 years ago. He has lived in the United
States continuously since 1983 and has a wife and six children living here.

He served openly as the Southern California fund-raiser for the Holy Land
Foundation in the 1990's and was active in a mosque. He and others associated
with the charity said it raised money for hospitals, housing and orphanages for
Palestinians living in Israel and did not knowingly funnel money to Hamas or
other terrorist groups.

In its case against him, federal officials produced videotapes of meetings Mr.
Hamdan attended that included members of Hamas and other anti-Israel
Palestinians. Mr. Hamdan said he never condoned violence and had no say in how
the money he raised for the Holy Land Foundation was spent.

Mr. Hamdan's eldest daughter, Yaman, 20, said on Tuesday that she believed that
the government was pursuing the deportation order as a way to pressure her
father.

''They're trying to get him to talk about the H.L.F., even though he doesn't
have that information,'' said Ms. Hamdan, a pre-law student at Chapman
University in Orange, Calif. ''They're holding him on a visa violation that's
more than 20 years old because they want him to provide the evidence against the
others.''

William B. Odencrantz, a senior lawyer at the Department of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, said he was pleased with Judge Sitgraves's order, although
he said the government might appeal her ruling that Mr. Hamdan not be returned
to Jordan.

''We're pleased the evidence we presented convinced the judge that Hamdan knew
or should have known that the money he was raising as a paid employee of the
Holy Land Foundation was destined for a terrorist organization that engages in
atrocities and human rights violations such as suicide bombings and killing
innocent people,'' Mr. Odencrantz said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rawan Hamdan, 16, and her brother Layth, 13, supporting their
father. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 3, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Elliott Is Detained As His Past Catches Up

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 451 words


Stewart Elliott, the jockey who rode Smarty Jones to victories in last year's
Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes, was detained by federal immigration
officials Tuesday after they discovered he had pleaded guilty to felony assault
charges.

After he met with immigration officials Tuesday in New York, Elliott, a Canadian
citizen, was detained and spent Tuesday night in the York County Prison in
Pennsylvania. He was released yesterday afternoon.

The authorities discovered the guilty plea on Elliott's record in December, when
he returned to the United States after riding in Hong Kong. Tuesday's meeting
was scheduled at that time, and in the interim Elliott was allowed to live and
work in the United States.

Elliott has a green card, but immigrants with felonies on their records are
subject to deportation.

Joe Rosen, Elliott's agent, said he was confident Elliott would be cleared and
allowed to continue riding in the United States.

Elliott, the regular rider of Rockport Harbor, a top 2005 Kentucky Derby
candidate, is scheduled to ride today at Aqueduct and can stay in the United
States pending a hearing before an immigration judge. The judge can either
deport Elliott or allow him to continue to live and work in the United States.
Elliott's hearing has yet to be scheduled.

In 2001, Elliott pleaded guilty to aggravated assault charges stemming from a
fight with a friend in Burlington County, N.J. Elliott struck the man with a
beer bottle, a pool cue and a stool. He was sentenced to one year of probation.

Elliott blamed a problem with alcohol for his violent behavior and said last
year that he was sober and had turned his life around.

''They know that he pays his U.S. taxes,'' Rosen said, ''and he hasn't done
anything wrong since the incident. If he were some kind of bad guy, he would
have a problem. They know he's not.''

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees United
States Customs and Border Protection, said that immigration officials were
following the letter of the law.

''From our standpoint,'' said the spokesman, Manny Van Pelt, ''there was a
violation of the law, and we carry out the law. If a person is indeed in
violation of the statute, the next step is a legal proceeding. The courts make
the final decisions. Sometimes a person is granted the authority to stay here
and sometimes they are not.''

Rosen said that Elliott was distraught.

''It was his birthday Tuesday and this happens,'' Rosen said. ''He made a
mistake a long time ago and ever since has tried to do the right thing. Then he
goes down to this meeting and the next thing he knows he's in a federal
prison.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

100 Members of Immigrant Gang Are Held

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 14


Federal immigration authorities announced Monday that they had arrested more
than 100 members of a violent Central American street gang in a nationwide
crackdown.

The gang, Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, was born in the Rampart district of Los
Angeles and has since multiplied across the continent, involving itself in
narcotics and gun trafficking, murder and prostitution, law enforcement
officials said.

Many of the gang members are illegal immigrants, mostly from Latin American
countries like El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. Those arrested have a litany
of criminal charges on their records, and some are immigration violators who
were ordered deported but either returned to the United States or never left in
the first place.

In total, 103 people were arrested over the past month by agents of the Bureau
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

''By bringing the full range of I.C.E.'s immigration and customs authorities in
the fight against violent street gangs, we can take hundreds of gang members off
the streets and have a significant impact on community safety,'' said Michael
Garcia , the Department of Homeland Security assistant secretary and director of
the immigration and customs bureau.

The man said to be the leader of the MS-13 gang was arrested in Texas in early
February. That man, Ever Anibal Rivera Paz, known as El Culiche, or the
Tapeworm, was recognized by his tattoos, one of the gang's hallmarks. He had
escaped from prison in Honduras, where he was accused of masterminding an attack
on a bus that killed 28 people.

Federal agents, working on information provided by state and local law
enforcement officials, arrested 30 suspected MS-13 members in the New York area,
25 in Washington, 17 in Los Angeles, 10 in Newark, 10 in Miami, 10 in Baltimore
and 1 in Irving, Tex.

Among those arrested in Los Angeles was a former member of the Salvadoran
military who admitted to the authorities that he was a founding member of the
MS-13 gang in Hollywood. The man has convictions for weapons violations, robbery
and mail theft and was arrested on immigration violations.

''MS is not a gang, it's an army,'' said Officer Frank Flores, a gang expert
with the Los Angeles Police Department, who says MS-13 membership numbers in the
tens of thousands nationwide. ''Within the United States, these guys pose as
much a threat to the well being of ordinary citizens as any foreign terrorist
group.''

Another man, arrested in Long Branch, N.J., is suspected of being the leader of
the MS-13 cell there. He has a criminal history of aggravated arson, weapons
possession, grand larceny and possession of stolen property. He, too, was
arrested on administrative immigration violations.

One problem with dealing with criminal illegal immigrants, law enforcement
officials say, is that cities like Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami
and New York have either written or understood ''sanctuary'' policies that
prohibit their law enforcement officers from asking a suspect about his
immigration status. This makes it difficult for police officers to work with
federal immigration authorities until an illegal immigrant commits a crime.

The thinking is that illegal immigrants who lead normal and productive lives
would be unwilling to approach the police as witnesses if they feared that they,
too, would be deported.

The problem is especially acute in Los Angeles, where gang members often return
after being deported. Local police officers may know a criminal by face, but
until they catch him in an illegal act, he is allowed to remain on the streets.

But a new era may be dawning in the fight against gangs, as police departments
like Los Angeles's share street intelligence with the federal authorities.

''You think an immigrant Hispanic family who is here illegally would mind if we
targeted the violent criminal?'' Capt. Michael Downing, commander of the
Hollywood precinct, asked. ''I don't. But every time you mention it, they say
it's a slippery slope and so the violent criminal is tolerated.''

In Central America, the judicial system has employed a no-tolerance policy for
gang members deported from the United States known as ''mano dura'' or the
''hard hand.'' Gang members deported there may prefer to return to the United
States rather than risk the long sentences for gang affiliation and particularly
onerous prison life there.

Federal immigration officials estimate that there are 80,000 to 100,000 criminal
illegal immigrants in the United States. If the 30,000 in the Los Angeles area
were all to be apprehended at the same time, they would overwhelm the 1,400 beds
allotted for them. So immigration officials say the current operation is meant
to single out the most hardened criminals with longstanding gang ties.

''L.A. isn't the only place where this is happening,'' said Virginia Kice, a
spokeswoman for the immigration bureau. ''We've thrown down the gauntlet, and
this is only the beginning.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An MS-13 member was questioned in Los Angeles last year. (Photo
by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unions and Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 117 words



To the Editor:

One reason labor unions are suffering (''Union Labor, Squeezed From All
Directions,'' March 13) is the total lack of enforcement of our immigration
laws.

Contractors can pick up illegal immigrants on many street corners and have them
work for a fraction of the cost of union labor. These contractors avoid paying
taxes or Social Security; the union member is unemployed and we pay for his
unemployment. These contractors are able to bid on jobs at prices no law-abiding
contractor can and still make a tremendous profit.

Unless we enforce our immigration and work laws and prevent the use of illegal
labor, the American middle class will suffer more and more.

Robert F. LaPorta
Dix Hills

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Gang Sweep With a Difference

BYLINE: By PATRICK O'GILFOIL HEALY

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words


LAW enforcement officials arrested 30 immigrants earlier this month in what they
described as the Island's third major gang roundup in 13 months. And on some
levels, the most recent sweep looked a lot like the first two.

As in previous crackdowns, officers arrested suspected gang members at home and
on the streets. They gave the sweep a catchy name -- Operation Community Shield.
Politicians and investigators held triumphal news conferences. They described
their quarry as dangerous thugs who had committed drug and weapons crimes. As
always, they vowed to halt the scourge of gang activity in the suburbs.

But this time, federal immigration officials were the ones spearheading the
sweep, loudly inserting themselves into a law-enforcement action normally
handled by local police and prosecutors, United States attorneys or federal
agencies like the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug Enforcement
Administration.

In the latest sweep, officers from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
bureau accompanied the police to arrest 30 immigrants -- 15 in Nassau and 15 in
Suffolk. The suspects were not taken to county jails, but to an immigration
detention center in New Jersey. Some may be charged with crimes stemming from
gang activity; others will simply face deportation hearings.

But the tactic has drawn criticism. Immigration lawyers said that federal
officials were ducking the criminal-justice system's high burdens of proof by
arresting gang suspects on immigration charges. Relatives said their loved ones
had been wrongly detained.

''Never in my wildest dreams would I have thought that something like this would
have happened,'' said Sara Cruz of Lindenhurst, whose husband, Carlos, was among
the men arrested. ''He works six days a week, eight hours a day. He takes care
of the kids. He's always at home. Why should he have to sit in the jail when he
didn't do anything wrong?''

Even if the suspects are not criminally charged, they face years of detention in
immigration facilities, separation from their American families and deportation
to countries where gang members are brutally punished, lawyers said.

But federal officials said they were proud of the way they had caught their
quarry.

''These are some bad people,'' said Martin Ficke, special agent in charge of New
York for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a division of the Department of
Homeland Security known as ICE. ''We try to prosecute as many as we can
criminally. If we deport them, there's a good chance we don't have anything we
can prosecute them on.''

The 30 arrests on Long Island were announced March 14 as part of a national
campaign to use immigration law to attack gangs, particularly the
California-based Salvadoran gang Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13. Officials have
called it one of the country's most violent and virulent gangs, and blamed its
members for two murders last year on the Island.

Officials said they had arrested 73 other members of MS-13 in Los Angeles,
Chicago, Washington and other cities, based on matching names in immigration
databases with those of gang suspects supplied by local police departments.
About half of the 103 people arrested had previous arrests or convictions for
violent crimes, officials said.

''By bringing the full range of ICE's immigration and customs authorities in the
fight against violent street gangs, we can take hundreds of gang members off the
streets and have a significant impact on community safety,'' Michael Garcia, an
assistant secretary of Homeland Security, said at a March 14 news conference
reported by The Associated Press.

Officials in village, town and county government have identified gang violence
as a growing concern, estimating that there are now 5,000 gang members on Long
Island, compared with 500 10 years ago.

The Suffolk county executive, Steve Levy, has heated up the debate with promises
to crack down on immigrant criminals by forging a new partnership between
Suffolk and immigration officials.

Mr. Levy said he has allocated 25 Suffolk officers to an anti-gang task force
and heaped praise on the latest sweeps. ''We're not turf-conscious,'' he said.
''We welcome the F.B.I. and ICE and any other federal agency that wants to
assist us.''

Twice last year, law enforcement authorities conducted gang sweeps in which
nearly 100 suspected gang members were arrested on state and federal charges
ranging from drug and weapons possession to assault, robbery and murder.

In February, a raft of prosecutors and investigators announced they had arrested
30 members of three gangs from across Long Island. In October, Suffolk officials
said 66 people had been arrested in a sweep around Huntington Station, though
many of the suspects' relatives said the crackdown had swept up people with no
gang connections.

Last fall, Mr. Levy ignited a fierce debate when he floated a proposal to
deputize Suffolk police officers as immigration officers, saying the extra power
could help them fight burgeoning immigrant gangs. Mr. Levy said that only
criminal immigrants would be targeted, but unions and immigrant advocates lashed
out at the idea, saying it would strain police resources and turn all immigrants
against the police.

Mr. Levy later reshaped his plan, setting up an arrangement in which federal
immigration officials dedicated extra officers to Suffolk County and gave
Suffolk fast access to immigration databases. His deputies trumpeted the recent
arrests of 27 sex offenders on immigration warrants as a sign the county's
actions matched its rhetoric.

Now, the 30 immigrants -- most of them Guatemalan, Salvadoran or Honduran --
arrested in the gang sweep will face deportation hearings, which will focus on
whether they are in the country legally, and whether they have committed crimes
allowing a judge to revoke their status and deport them.

Some could face state criminal charges or federal charges of illegally
re-entering the country. The Nassau and Suffolk prosecutors' offices said their
staffs were not touching the cases.

Paul Zulkie, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said he
was troubled that immigrants could be arrested in a gang sweep and never face
gang-related criminal charges.

''In effect, it is a federalization of state criminal laws without the
constitutional protections normally afforded to those accused of committing
crimes,'' he said. ''This is much bigger than anything the Department of
Homeland Security or the former I.N.S. ever initiated.''

But Mr. Levy said federal officials had targeted the 30 immigrants, and he
supported deportation if prosecutors could not bring charges.

''A person who's here illegally cannot hide behind the fact that he didn't
commit a felony,'' Mr. Levy said. ''If you happen to be caught up, you can't say
that just because you haven't murdered someone you can get around federal
immigration laws.''

Immigration advocates have offered cautious support for the latest sweep. Some
said they disliked seeing Latinos presented as gang members, but they said the
men's MS-13 tattoos and criminal records were signs that immigration officers
had not conducted a haphazard sweep.

''I applaud the law enforcement attempts to clean up neighborhoods and make sure
the communities are safe,'' said the Rev. Allan Ramirez, pastor of the
Brookville Reformed Church and a prominent immigrant advocate. ''If there are
Latino criminal elements, get rid of it. I would like to see announcements about
arrests that include more people than just Latinos.''

Meanwhile, relatives, wives and fiancees like Ms. Cruz, the wife of Carlos, are
on the phone with immigration lawyers and driving to New Jersey to visit their
loved ones.

Shelly Brown's fiance, Jose M. Mejia, was among the men arrested. Mr. Mejia was
a teenager when he immigrated from El Salvador in the late 1980's, and is now a
truck driver. Ms. Brown said he had been arrested years ago and had been in a
gang a decade ago, but said he had righted his life long ago and was applying
for a green card.

Ms. Brown, like other relatives of the men arrested, said she supported cracking
down on gangs, but said the wrong men had been caught in the nets. ''All his
life he's worked so hard to get where he is,'' Ms. Brown said. ''He came here
because he wants a better life. You come to the country and you do stupid
things. But that shouldn't be grounds for deportation.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Garcia, an assistant secretary of Homeland Security, on
March 14 at a Washington news conference announcing a nationwide roundup
targeting members of the MS-13 street gang. (Photo by Haraz Ghanbari/Associated
Press)(pg. 1)
 Sara Cruz of Lindenhurst says her husband, Carlos, arrested in the roundup, is
not a gang member. (Photo by Jack McCoy for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 23, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Report Noncitizens to U.S., Official Says

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 639 words


New York police officers routinely inform federal immigration authorities
whenever they arrest a noncitizen, even a lawful permanent resident, a police
official said yesterday at a hearing of the City Council Committee on
Immigration.

The remarks drew an angry reaction from committee members, including the
chairman, Councilman Kendall Stewart of Brooklyn, who called the practice a
violation of the spirit of an order from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Executive
Order 41, which was written to reassure the city's immigrants that their
immigration status would be kept confidential after interactions with city
agencies.

Under sharp questioning by Mr. Stewart and other council members, the police
official, Thomas P. Doepfner, an assistant deputy commissioner, said that anyone
arrested is asked whether he or she is a citizen of the United States. Those who
answer that they are not are asked their nationality, and no matter how minor
the offense, it is automatically reported to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security.

''Anybody can be arrested,'' Councilman Stewart said in an interview after the
hearing. ''Arrested doesn't mean you're guilty. You know what it is in our
society today -- they arrest you based on profile, on minor things. And as long
as they arrest you, that's an excuse for them to give that information to ICE.''

He said the practice was alarmingly different from the policy of privacy that
most immigrant New Yorkers had come to expect.

But Mr. Doepfner said that the practice went back many years and was well within
the language of the mayor's executive order, which explicitly exempts from
confidentiality immigration information about a person whom a police officer
suspects of criminal activity ''other than mere status as an undocumented
alien.''

In a statement issued after the hearing, police officials stressed that
information about nationality was passed on only when it was volunteered by
those arrested. The Police Department's deputy commissioner for public
information, Paul J. Browne, said that those who refuse to say whether they are
citizens are not reported to immigration authorities.

At the hearing, Mr. Doepfner said the policy was not new. ''The reporting that
we do to ICE is something that we've been doing for a very long time,'' he said.
''It existed well before 9/11. It's simply a report to ICE of individuals we
have arrested who have indicated that they are not citizens.'' What Immigration
and Customs Enforcement does with the information, he said, ''is up to them.''

Immigration officials may have done less with the information before Sept. 11,
2001. But since then the federal government has stepped up local enforcement of
immigration laws, including the use of predawn raids to seize people with
outstanding deportation orders for immigration violations.

Yesterday's hearing was called to examine one aspect of the increased
enforcement, the addition of thousands of noncriminal immigration violators to
the National Crime Information Center database, a computerized index maintained
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Mr. Doepfner told the committee that anyone whose driver's license is checked by
the police, even in a random traffic stop, will have his or her name and birth
date run through the database. If someone is listed there as an immigration
violator, ''we will call ICE,'' he said, and if immigration authorities issue a
''detainer,'' the person will be held for 48 hours for pickup by federal
officers.

Pressed by Mr. Stewart to say whether any law required the police to notify
federal immigration authorities in database cases, Mr. Doepfner acknowledged he
did not know of any, but he said, ''We believe it's prudent and it's a good law
enforcement practice.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 28, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Rare Accord, Spurned Asylum Seeker to Get $87,500

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 27


In a rare settlement, the federal government has agreed to pay $87,500 to a
woman from Kenya who was denied entry into the United States even though she
says she expressed fears for her life in Kenya.

The woman, Rosebell N. Munyua, was returned to Kenya by immigration officials at
San Francisco International Airport in March 2001. She was admitted six months
later on a tourist visa in Houston and now lives with her two daughters in Santa
Rosa, Calif. She was granted political asylum in September 2002.

The proposed settlement was submitted Wednesday in federal court here and
requires approval by United States Magistrate Judge Elizabeth D. Laporte. In
January, Judge Laporte dismissed several of Ms. Munyua's claims against
immigration officials, including assault and false imprisonment, but allowed a
claim of negligence to go forward.

Lawyers for Ms. Munyua said it was the first time in which an arriving refugee
had successfully sued the federal government by accusing immigration officials
of negligence. Other civil rights lawyers and experts on asylum cases, though
uncertain that Ms. Munyua had broken entirely new ground, agreed that the
settlement was remarkable.

''It's a big deal,'' said Anwen Hughes, a staff lawyer in the asylum legal
representation program at Human Rights First, an advocacy group based in New
York. ''This is a rare case where somebody actually made it back to the United
States, applied for asylum and was lucky enough to find counsel to gain
compensation for injuries.''

Peter Duignan, a historian and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution who has
written extensively about immigration, said most people who were turned away at
airports by immigration officials were never heard from again.

''I've never heard of anyone actually getting any money like this,'' Dr. Duignan
said.

Ms. Munyua, 35, had sought more than $1 million in damages, but she said
Wednesday that she was not disappointed in the settlement.

''I wasn't sure what I was hoping for,'' Ms. Munyua said in a telephone
interview. ''I was just hoping for some justice to be done.''

She added, ''I'm excited. I got a chance to stand up for myself.''

In agreeing to the payment, the United States attorney's office, which
represented the Department of Homeland Security, admitted no wrongdoing by
federal officials.

A spokesman for Kevin V. Ryan, the United States attorney in San Francisco,
would not comment on the settlement, but pointed to a provision in it that
states it was ''for the purpose of compromising disputed claims, avoiding the
expenses and risks of litigation, and buying peace.''

Philip Hwang, a lawyer with the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San
Francisco, which represented Ms. Munyua, said the settlement carried symbolic
significance beyond Ms. Munyua's case. The committee is already bringing another
suit involving a woman who was sent back to Zimbabwe, Mr. Hwang said.

''Our hope is that by providing some measure of accountability, by allowing
refugees to sue the United States, it will have tremendous impact in making sure
the government follows the correct procedures,'' he said.

According to the lawsuit, Ms. Munyua fled Kenya with one of her daughters in
March 2001 after being beaten by Kenyan authorities for anti-government
political activities. In one incident cited in the suit, Kenyan police put
plastic bags over the heads of her two children and made her husband strip
naked, beating him until he was unconscious. The suit says her husband
eventually went into hiding in neighboring Tanzania.

Arriving in San Francisco, Ms. Munyua's right arm was bandaged from a beating,
and, the lawsuit said, she told an immigration officer, ''If I go back, I am
going to be killed.'' Under federal law, immigration officials are required to
refer people who express a fear of returning to their home country to an asylum
officer. That did not happen in Ms. Munyua's case.

In reply to the suit, immigration officials said that Ms. Munyua never expressed
a fear of returning to Kenya and that she voluntarily withdrew her application
for admission.

A study on asylum seekers by the United States Commission on International
Religious Freedom, released in February, found that such ''he said, she said''
situations were not uncommon, said Mark Hetfield, who directed the study.

In 79 cases observed at airports in which people expressed fear of return, 12
were not referred to an asylum officer. In 7 of the 12, the immigration
inspector stated incorrectly in a sworn statement that the applicant had no fear
of return.

Though not familiar with the details of Ms. Munyua's case, Mr. Hetfield said the
system was stacked against such legal challenges.

''All the evidence they have is a paper file created by the inspector,'' he
said, ''so any misbehavior by the inspector would not be captured. It is amazing
any case would come this far.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Harsh Immigration Policy

SECTION: Section 9; Column 5; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 172 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Elvis and My Husband Have Left the Building'' (Modern Love, April 24):

Liza Monroy's flippant article about marrying her gay friend to assist him in
getting his green card provides dangerous misinformation. By filing fraudulent
immigration papers the couple committed a federal crime and could face five
years in prison as well as deportation of the husband.

Moreover, it is simply wrong to write that his winning the diversity visa
lottery would solve his immigration problem. The United States has one of the
world's harshest immigration policies against people living with H.I.V., and
only those with immediate relatives who are citizens or residents are eligible
for a waiver. This is why it is crucial to pass the permanent partners
immigration bill, so that gay foreign nationals can be sponsored for permanent
residence by their long-term same-sex partners and not be reduced to breaking
the law out of desperation to remain in the United States.

Victoria Neilson
Legal Director Immigration Equality
New York

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Immigration Case To Remain In El Paso

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 106 words


Immigration proceedings for an anti-Castro exile accused of masterminding the
deadly bombing of a Cuban airliner in 1976 will not be moved to Florida from El
Paso, an immigration judge has ruled. The exile, Luis Posada Carriles, 77, was
arrested in Miami last month after slipping into the United States. Mr. Posada
is wanted by Venezuela in the bombing, which killed 73 people. Federal officials
charged him with illegally entering the United States, in a case that could lead
to his deportation. Mr. Posada's lawyer had asked that the case be moved to
Florida, where Mr. Posada was staying before his arrest and where his lawyer
lives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Ruling Against Ohio Man Accused as Nazi

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, June 20


The nation's chief immigration judge has ruled that an Ohio man accused of
serving as a Nazi guard can be removed from the United States.

But the judge, Michael J. Creppy, made clear that the man, John Demjanjuk, has
the right to fight any possible deportation order against him. Mr.

Demjanjuk has until a June 30 hearing to file motions arguing why he should be
allowed to stay.

The ruling came Thursday in Falls Church, Va.

The United States first tried to deport Mr. Demjanjuk, a Ukrainian immigrant and
retired autoworkrs, in 1977, accusing him of being a notorious guard, Ivan the
Terrible, at the Treblinka death camp. He was extradited to Israel, convicted
and sentenced to hang, but the Israeli Supreme Court found that someone else was
apparently that guard.

Mr. Demjanjuk returned home, and his American citizenship was restored. The
current deportation case is based on=Justice Department charges that he was a
different guard. Evidence in that case led courts to again strip Mr. Demjanjuk
of his citizenship. He has denied the charges.

Thomas Elliot, Mr. Demjanjuk's lawyer in Washington, said Monday that he would
fight the deportation on grounds that Judge Creppy is not entitled to make
rulings in the case and that deportation would amount to torture. Mr. Demjanjuk
is in frail health and suffers back pain.

Mr. Elliot said the Justice Department had informed him that it favored
deporting Mr. Demjanjuk to the Ukraine, Poland or Germany.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Northwest: Washington: Cuban Athlete Seeking To Defect

BYLINE: By David Carrillo Penaloza (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 115 words


A member of the Cuban national soccer team is seeking to defect to the United
States, immigration authorities in Seattle said.

The player, Maikel Galindo Castaneda, a 24-year-old forward, is scheduled to
appear before an immigration judge soon, possibly in Seattle, officials said.
His team competed in Seattle last week for the Gold Cup, the championship for
North America, Central America and the Caribbean. The defection attempt was
first reported by The Seattle Times on its Web site. Mr. Galindo did not show up
for a match in Foxboro, Mass., Tuesday night, and a defection would be the third
by a Cuban soccer player competing in the Gold Cup since 2002.   David Carrillo
Penaloza (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Four Arizona Students From Mexico Forestall Their Deportation

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 255 words


An immigration judge in Phoenix threw out a deportation case against four
Arizona students on Thursday, ruling that they were illegally interrogated by
immigration authorities during a high school trip they took to Niagara Falls
three years ago.

The judge, John W. Richardson, held that immigration officers had engaged in
egregious misconduct by stopping the students only because they are Hispanic,
thereby violating due process, and then making disparaging remarks about their
ethnicity, said their lawyer, Judy Flanagan.

In addition, she said, the three students who were then juveniles were
unaccompanied by a parent or a lawyer when they were questioned, again contrary
to law.

The four, all age 20 or 21, are Jaime Damien, Yuliana Huicochea, Luis Nava and
Oscar Corona, who have lived in Arizona since they were young children, when
they were brought to the United States from Mexico as illegal immigrants. Three
of the four either are enrolled in or have completed college.

All four were members of an award-winning solar energy team that traveled to
Buffalo for an international science competition in June 2002. When their
teacher tried to take them to the Canadian side of Niagara Falls, the students
were apprehended by United States immigration officers because they lacked legal
status.

Lori Haley, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
agency was considering an appeal. Asked for a response to the accusations of
misconduct, Ms. Haley said, ''Any response we have we will make in court.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Oscar Corona, left, and Luis Nava leaving court yesterday after
a judge threw out the government's effort to deport them and two others. (Photo
by Will Powers/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Raid At Plant Leaves Children in Limbo

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: ARKADELPHIA, Ark., July 30


About 30 children, some as young as 3 months old, were left without their
parents this week after immigration officials raided a poultry plant here and
took the parents away to face possible deportation.

''A lot of those families had kids in day care in different places,'' said Mayor
Charles Hollingshead, ''and they didn't know why Mommy and Daddy didn't come
pick them up.''

The federal officials arrested 119 people on Tuesday in the raid at the plant,
Petit Jean Poultry, after a former worker said she had supplied others with fake
ID cards. The authorities said that 115 workers were from Mexico and that the
others were from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala.

Temple Black, a spokesman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in
New Orleans, said Friday that those arrested were asked whether they had
children, and they all said they did not.

''We interviewed every person and asked that specific question,'' Mr. Black
said, ''and we were told that there were none.''

Mr. Black later said that some of those arrested told the officials that their
children were with relatives. Children in such a situation are normally placed
with relatives until their parents are returned to the community or deported.

While some of the workers arrested on Tuesday were able to call and arrange care
for their children, others were not.

''A lot of families are separated now, wives, moms and dads,'' said the Rev.
Rudy Gutierrez, pastor of La Primera Iglesia Bautista of Arkadelphia, which
arranged for care of some of the children.

Jose Luis Vidal said his sister and brother-in-law were arrested in the raid and
deported to Laredo, Mexico, leaving children ages 10, 5 and 1.

''The children are very sad, especially the baby,'' Mr. Vidal said. ''She cries
all the time.'' He said his sister was trying to obtain a work permit to return
to the United States.

Sheriff Troy Tucker of Clark County said the immigration officials failed to
tell his agency about the raid. If they had, deputies would have made sure the
officials knew about the children, some of whom had been in the local public
schools for years, he said.

Some of the workers agreed to deportation, and others have challenged their
arrests. Those fighting deportation were released pending hearings.

The arrests followed the identity-theft conviction of Maria Moreno of
Arkadelphia, who admitted that she unlawfully sold Social Security cards and
other documents. Mr. Black of the immigration office said many at Petit Jean had
purchased birth certificates and Social Security cards, then had used those
documents to obtain ID cards from the State of Arkansas.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 10, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California Imam Is Accused Of Planning Terror Training

BYLINE: By CAROLYN MARSHALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 9


A Federal Bureau of Investigation agent told an immigration judge on Tuesday
that a Pakistani imam planned to set up a religious school in Lodi where
recruits could be trained to kill Americans.

The agent, Gary Schaaf, made the accusation at a bail hearing for the cleric,
Shabbir Ahmed, 39, who was arrested in June and charged with overstaying his
visa while serving at a mosque in Lodi, in the Central Valley about 85 miles
northeast of here.

After a hearing of nearly four hours, the judge, Anthony Murry, ruled that Mr.
Ahmed was a danger to the community and a flight risk. The judge denied bail and
ordered the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to keep Mr. Ahmed in
custody.

Mr. Ahmed, who has not been charged with terrorism activity, is one of five men
being held in connection with a federal investigation that the authorities say
ties him and perhaps the others to the Taliban and Al Qaeda. Mr. Ahmed's lawyer,
Saad Ahmad, said after the hearing that his client was neither a terrorist nor
had ties to any terrorist groups.

Two other men being held, Mohammad Hassan Adil, 19, and his father, Mohammed
Adil Khan, 47, agreed at an earlier immigration hearing to be deported to
Pakistan.

The others being held in connection with the case, Hamid Hayat, 22, and his
father, Umer Hayat, 47, remain in custody on charges of making false statements
to the F.B.I. by denying that the younger Mr. Hayat had attended a terrorist
training camp in Pakistan. The immigration agency maintains that he was training
at the camp to kill Americans and that his father paid for part of the training
and the trip.

The testimony on Tuesday was the first time the federal authorities had made a
connection among the five men, presenting a diagram to the court showing all of
the relationships. The immigration agency and the F.B.I. argued that Mr. Ahmed
was essentially going to act as an intermediary for Mr. Hayat, and would relay
orders from operatives in Pakistan.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Set for Imam In F.B.I. Case

BYLINE: By CAROLYN MARSHALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 15


An Islamic cleric being held by immigration officials agreed Monday to be
deported, a week after federal investigators accused him of planning to set up a
religious school where recruits could be trained to kill Americans.

The cleric, Shabbir Ahmed, 39, will be deported to Islamabad, Pakistan, for
overstaying a three-year visa that allowed him to work in the United States as
an imam.

At a hearing at an immigration court on Monday, Judge Anthony Murry, who said
last week that Mr. Ahmed posed ''a flight risk and a danger to the community,''
ordered him deported.

Mr. Ahmed was arrested in June as part of a federal investigation into possible
terrorist connections between Al Qaeda and members of a mosque in Lodi, about 70
miles northeast of San Francisco. But Mr. Ahmed was never charged with terrorist
acts, and his lawyer has called the accusations against him baseless.

The lawyer, Saad Ahmad, said his client, who initially vowed to fight the
accusations, decided not to contest the case because he feared for his safety
and worried about the prospect of a long detention.

Mr. Ahmad pointed to the government's decision to let Mr. Ahmed leave as proof
that his client is innocent.

Lawyers for Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Mr. Ahmed's deportation
represented the agency's ultimate goal of protecting Americans from terrorist
threats.

''Once he leaves the United States,'' said Ronald E. Le Fevre, the agency's
chief counsel in San Francisco, ''Mr. Ahmed will no longer be in a position to
advance any doctrine of hate from within our community.''

Two other men held in connection with the case, Mohammad Hassan Adil, 19, and
his father, Mohammad Adil Khan, 47, were scheduled for deportation on Monday,
said Mr. Ahmad, who also served as their lawyer.

At a hearing last week, an F.B.I. agent, Gary Schaaf, accused Mr. Ahmed of
planning to set up an Islamic school in Lodi as a front for training recruits to
attack Americans. The authorities also suggested that Mr. Ahmed had indirect
ties to Osama bin Laden, and said he would be an intermediary between Al Qaeda
and its sympathizers in Lodi.

Two Lodi residents, Hamid Hayat, 22, and his father, Umer Hayat, 47, remain in
custody on charges of making false statements to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation about their ties to a terrorist training camp in Pakistan.

The F.B.I. has not elaborated on the evidence in the cases beyond the court
testimony. On Monday, the bureau again declined to explain why it agreed to Mr.
Ahmed's deportation rather than filing criminal charges.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 20, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Cleared In '90 Murder Of Bouncer At Palladium

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 502 words


A Dominican man who served 14 years in New York State prison in a 1990 murder
outside the Palladium nightclub was cleared in the killing yesterday, but he may
spend many more months in custody awaiting the outcome of deportation hearings.

The man, Olmado Hidalgo, raised his hands and made peace signs when Justice
Roger S. Hayes overturned his murder conviction in State Supreme Court in
Manhattan, ending a legal ordeal that began when he was accused of fatally
shooting a Palladium bouncer outside the club on Thanksgiving, 1990.

Now that the charge has been dropped, his lawyers will try to persuade the
federal authorities not to deport him. The murder conviction had triggered the
immigration proceedings, but Mr. Hidalgo could be forced to leave the country
because of a separate 1990 gun possession conviction instead.

Neil A. Weinrib, a lawyer representing Mr. Hidalgo, said an immigration judge
could hold an initial hearing on his case as early as next week. The judge is
likely to begin by discussing the possibility of his temporary release on bond.
If there is a bond, and Mr. Hidalgo cannot come up with the money, he will have
to remain in prison throughout the proceeding, which, according to Mr. Weinrib,
could take months or more.

For years Mr. Hidalgo, who is 40, claimed he was innocent. This summer,
prosecutors recommended that the judge clear Mr. Hidalgo after Justice Hayes
held extensive hearings on the his case and the case of his co-defendant, David
Lemus. He is expected to rule on Mr. Lemus's case in the coming weeks.

Mr. Hidalgo's lawyer in the Palladium case, Daniel J. Horwitz, has argued that
the gun possession conviction was from a ''youthful indiscretion.'' The United
States government has already forced his client to serve 14 years in prison for
something he did not do, Mr. Horwitz argued, and it should now offer him the
chance to remain in this country.

But it is far from clear that Mr. Hidalgo, who came to the Bronx in 1987 from
the Dominican Republic, will be allowed to remain in the United States, where
most of his family now lives. He has a sister and a brother who are both
American citizens, Mr. Weinrib said. Still, the gun conviction is serious, and
could be a ground for deportation, said a spokesman for the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency, Marc Raimondi.

Mr. Raimondi confirmed that the federal authorities had ordered Mr. Hidalgo
deported on the basis of the murder conviction but added that the judge would be
the one to decide whether he is deported on the basis of the gun charge.

Mr. Raimondi said he could not comment on the specifics of Mr. Hidalgo's case,
but said, ''There is not a whole lot of tolerance for illegal aliens who come to
the United States and commit a crime.''

Mr. Hidalgo's family members, including his mother, Lucia Paulino, who flew in
from the Dominican Republic this week, were still eagerly awaiting his release.

''I've cried a lot, but now I am so happy,'' Ms. Paulino said outside the
courtroom.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Bronx: Ill Woman Released From Detention

BYLINE: By Nina Bernstein (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 147 words


A terminally ill Bronx woman was temporarily released from detention late
Tuesday while an immigration judge decided whether to reopen her deportation
case. Today, two City Council members, Bill de Blasio and Kendall Stewart, are
expected to introduce a resolution citing the case and urging federal
immigration officials not to pursue deportation when it causes extreme hardship
to the immigrant, relatives or community members. The woman, Andrea M. Mortlock,
41, a legal permanent resident since 1979 who is in the last stages of AIDS, was
ordered deported to her native Jamaica based on a 1987 conviction for selling
cocaine.

In a petition to the Organization of American States' Inter-American Human
Rights Commission, which is reviewing her case, she called deportation
''tantamount to a death sentence'' because she could not get proper treatment in
Jamaica.   Nina Bernstein (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Just This Side of the Treacherous Border, Here Lies Juan Doe

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: HOLTVILLE, Calif., Sept. 17


John Doe got lucky. His funeral was canceled.

Maybe next week they will bury him, the local undertaker said. Maybe next month.
In the meantime, his body lies in a 42-degree cooler, his body bag paid for by
the taxpayers of Imperial County.

Officials from the Mexican consulate are trying to figure out if they have in
fact located his next of kin, deep in the heart of Mexico.

If so, Mr. Doe will go home and be buried with his name.

If not, he will go into a pauper's grave here in the desert, behind a row of
poison oleander bushes, near a trash mound. He will be wrapped in a sheet,
placed in a particleboard box, sealed in with eight nails and his grave marked
with a cheap concrete headstone. It will read John Doe.

No one will say a word for him. There will be no priest, no prayer, no
lamentation. He will go forgotten, next to 220 other men and women who drowned
in irrigation canals or succumbed to the sun or were discovered dead in the back
of a tractor-trailer crossing into the United States.

''These are illegals, and people don't care about them,'' said Martin Sanchez,
the gravedigger at the humble Terrace Park Cemetery in Holtville. It is Mr.
Sanchez who carved Mr. Doe's resting place from the slick desert mud.

''The politicians don't say nothing about them,'' Mr. Sanchez offered. ''They
can't say nothing. If they do, they lose a vote somewhere. And so, we're all
nowhere.''

The grinding problem of illegal immigration, and the toll it takes on
communities on each side of the border, is apparent in the paupers' cemetery
here.

Imperial County, the poorest in California, pays for the autopsy and the
investigators' overtime to try to identify those who die crossing into the
United States. If a body is identified, the funeral is paid for by the family or
the Mexican government.

''We're happy when we can identify someone because it gives a family closure,''
said Sgt. Charles Lucas, the supervising deputy coroner of Imperial County. ''Of
course, this is a poor county, and it does strain resources.''

If the body cannot be identified, the local taxpayers pay for the burial -- $440
for the plot and $457 for the coffin, sheet, nails and transportation.

The total cost for a John Doe is about $2,500, and the county expects to pay at
least $30,000 this year for the autopsies alone. It is another small, hidden
cost of illegal immigration.

In fact, when the county sheriff tried recently to stop the autopsies of illegal
immigrants, the Mexican government threatened to sue, even though it did not
offer to pay for the autopsies, claiming poverty. The sheriff relented.

The county coroner does the autopsies and then tries to identify the bodies by
their personal effects, an identifying tattoo, even a name scribbled in their
underwear.

The bodies are then sent to the Frye Chapel and Mortuary in Brawley and tended
by Francis Frye, an 86-year-old crosspatch. Mr. Frye has the contract with the
county to store all bodies, and he complains not only about losing money
handling the John Does but also about the endless stream of illegal immigrants
who pound on his door at night begging for food and water.

''You can't make a living with this kind of case,'' Mr. Frye said. ''They sit in
the refrigerator forever and nobody pays.''

Refrigeration costs $145, plus $10 a day. Because some of the bodies sit so
long, Mr. Frye said he was forced to buy special metallic canisters to store the
remains and control the odor in his funeral home.

''He's been sitting here since June,'' Mr. Frye said of John Doe. ''Who's going
to pay? Nobody's going to pay. The border is out of control.''

According to statistics provided by border patrol agents, the number of people
illegally coming into the United States across its southwestern border with
Mexico has reached levels not seen since before Sept. 11, 2001, despite promises
and millions of dollars from the federal government to increase security.

So far this fiscal year, which ends Oct. 1, more than 1.1 million people have
been apprehended along the 1,951-mile border, up 21 percent from last year. The
rule of thumb among immigration experts is that for every one caught, three make
it in.

The most macabre barometer perhaps is the body count, corpses known in law
enforcement parlance as 10-7's. In the first 11 months of this fiscal year, 314
people have died. Though this number is down slightly from last year, the
difference is negligible, immigration experts say, considering that dozens of
border patrol agents, along with helicopters and drone planes, were sent this
year to the most inhospitable parts of the border to curb the deaths.

Moreover, the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the border patrol,
is spending $13 million to fly a few thousand repeat offenders caught in the
American desert back into the heartland of Mexico. It is unclear if this has
dissuaded anyone from trying again.

Border authorities here in the southeastern California sector called El Centro
report 36 deaths so far this year, down from 56 last year, though federal agents
count only the bodies they recover and not those recovered by the local
authorities. The Imperial County sheriff's department says 25 people have been
dragged this year from the milky waters of the irrigation canals, and county
health officials say they have taken custody of the bodies of 45 undocumented
immigrants. There are, most likely, bones bleaching on a desert floor that at
times reaches 125 degrees.

Five, so far this year, have been buried without a name.

John Doe was to be the sixth, until the Mexican consulate in Calexico received a
letter from a family in Mexico that had not heard from their loved one in some
time. They provided a description, and the consulate in turn sent the family
photographs and a description. Sometimes this works. John Doe was found on June
15 -- face down in the desert, comatose, baked. Not much is known about him. He
was short, slight of build, penniless, age undetermined. He either thought much
of himself or was separated from his group, because it is madness to cross the
desert alone.

At the cemetery, his hole awaits, along with Mr. Sanchez, the gravedigger.

''It's sad,'' Mr. Sanchez philosophized. ''He crossed right here in the desert
just to be on this side. He got his wish, I guess. He'll probably end up getting
buried here.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Once upon a time, advocates for immigrants' rights placed
crosses that read ''No Olvidado,'' or ''Not Forgotten,'' in the cemetery, but
the elements are claiming them. In a log at the Frye Chapel and Mortuary,
entries for unclaimed bodies are marked ''LA'' after they are identified for
removal to the Mexican consulate.
 Martin Sanchez digs the graves of the unknown at a cemetery in Holtville,
Calif. ''These are illegals, and people don't care about them,'' he said.
(Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Borderline Holiday

BYLINE: By Luis Alberto Urrea.

Luis Alberto Urrea is author of ''The Devil's Highway.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1317 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


EVERY American city is now a border town. If you drive through the Arkansas
hills, you will see a single-wide trailer church with a sign that reads ''Templo
Evangelico.'' If you take Interstate 10 through Metairie, La., and exit north,
you will find a Mexican barrio hidden behind a neighborhood of Cajuns. In
Naperville, Ill., Spanish-speaking men in work clothes peruse the abundant
''Hispanic foods'' aisle, buying corn husks and masa de maiz to make their
traditional Christmas meal of tamales, but Chicago style -- with bratwurst
instead of beef.

In cities all over this country, invisible undocumented aliens settle in with
their lonely compatriots to watch the American holidays pass over them. In
Mexico, there is no Halloween, no Thanksgiving. In the United States, the great
December celebration is no longer Navidad, but La Creesmass. The recently
arrived are surprised to find that Americans resent them. After all, President
Bush, they believe, welcomes them. Fast-food outlets and roofing companies and
farms and textile mills and motels eagerly hire them. They are even more
startled to find that the ones who have come before them and who have put in a
few years here, resent them even more. And the ''legal'' Mexicans revile them.

They don't have many presents to exchange. Perhaps the most traded gift among
the illegal aliens this Christmas will be tales of home. The border may be
porous, but it is one of the million paradoxes of post-9/11 history that the
beefed-up interdiction policies along the Mexican frontier make it simpler to
get to the United States than to get home. We have managed to slam the door shut
on them, and we're locking them in. Immigrants trade jokes about ''Detroit,
Michoacan.'' And they're not far off the mark.

Drastiko is an illegal immigrant, an aspiring rapper and, when he can find work,
a day laborer (like the others in this article, he allowed me to write about him
only on the condition that I use a nickname: for him -- his nom de rap). When
Drastiko calls at 11 p.m., after a long day's hustle for money in Los Angeles,
he says he no longer dreads the holidays. When he first arrived -- when he was
hiding out with other illegal aliens, sharing rooms with five other men in cheap
motels -- Drastiko was intimidated by the vast spending spree that is an
American Christmas. In Mexico, Christmas was based on family and spirit. This,
of course, is a direct result of endemic poverty. The holiday began with las
posadas, a season of festivals and meals, candles and church. Christmas did not
include the famous tree -- el arbolito -- though the rising middle and upper
classes of Mexican society now enjoy such things. In Mexico City, the vast new
Home Depot does a brisk trade in aluminum arbolitos. But many of the poorer
people have not seen a pine tree, much less spent three months' salary to buy a
metal or dead one to prop in a corner.

North of Seattle lives one of my relatives, known among the family as El
Spiderman. He is the first member of his immediate family to see snow. It is
certainly the first time in his life he has ever been so cold, or ever been in a
place so green. Spiderman is not like Drastiko -- he has lived a middle-class
gringo life. His family crossed the border illegally and made it to San Diego
when he was an infant. Spiderman grew up watching MTV and speaking English.
Unfortunately, he was arrested for gang-related activities, something that
baffled and hurt his father, a law-abiding immigrant. When illegal immigrants
double their illegality through felonies, they are deported after serving time.
So Spiderman, when he exited prison, was placed on a bus and deposited in an
unfriendly Mexican border town. There, his accent and demeanor tagged him as an
American, and he was in danger. His father undertook a Herculean driving
marathon to retrieve him and deposit him in a safe house in Tijuana. Six months
ago Spiderman's family paid a coyote $2,500 to smuggle him back into the country
and he landed in Washington State, far from his former gang, far from his family
and far from warm climates.

Drastiko, too, has traveled across the United States. Workers he'd met from
Denver invited him to Christmas last year. He took a Greyhound bus to Colorado
and found himself lost in the loneliest Christmas of his life. ''Their ways were
not my own,'' he says. ''I was confused and unable to do anything but watch
other people have holidays.''

Navidad back home is when grandmothers make tamales. The families gather to
break the Christmas bread. Traditional families don't open even small gifts on
the 25th. They wait for the Day of Three Kings, in January, reflecting the
Magi's giving to Christ.

''They give you small things,'' Drastiko says in Spanish. ''They might give you
a chocolate, or a wooden carving. The point is the act, not the object. Here,
people look at the brand. They check the label. If you don't have a good enough
trademark on a gift, they are disappointed.'' Being consummate capitalists, the
undocumented, once they can afford to buy gifts -- a year or two into their
protracted stay -- quickly learn the difference between Adidas shoes and Hong
Kong knockoffs.

Drastiko met another illegal alien, the Disciple, in an English class where both
were learning to read, write and rap in English. The Disciple can't afford
Christmas American style yet. He ''paid'' a coyote $10,000 to deliver him from
El Salvador to the East L.A. wonderland. These exorbitant trips astound
Americans -- but rest assured that if the Disciple had $10,000 in his pocket, he
would have stayed at home. These gangs of human traffickers -- which have
flourished since border crossing has become more daunting -- are really
loan-sharking operations. They ''lend'' the travelers the money to cross, and
they charge 15 percent interest, often compounded monthly -- or weekly. The
Disciple is working full time to pay the rent, which has just gone up $100, and
to pay off his debt. There will be no tree or presents this year.

Because the Border Patrol has pinched off the passage through San Diego and El
Paso, crossers go to deadlier, more remote regions where they have to rely on
professional guides. Because President Bush plays with talk of amnesty and guest
workers, the belief on the Latin American street is that the frantic can beat a
fable: if they hurry, they can get in under the wire before Mr. Bush's deadline.
Thousands more rush north every month, forming a human bottleneck along the
border. The danger level rises along with the cost. And the millions of
Drastikos huddle under their thin string of lights, wondering what to do.

Among the many pockets of aliens looking toward Christmas American style, there
is one group that is undeniably a success: immigrants with papers. These
adventure capitalists run the businesses known as encomiendas. It's not only
prohibitively expensive for immigrants to go home, but it is nearly impossible
to send gifts. The shipping fees are high, and the postal workers in the
scattered barrios at home need gifts for their own children. Up steps the
encomienda driver: a man with papers and a truck. Certain neighborhoods in
cities like Chicago are known to be populated by the Michoacan crowd. Other
cities have pockets of Salvadoran workers. The encomienda driver collects his
fee and your gift and heads home to distribute your gifts for you.

The Disciple has saved up enough money to send his kid brother a pair of running
shoes. Drastiko just sighs. The encomienda driver is pulling out of East Los
Angeles on Saturday, but Drastiko has nothing to send. He had used his extra
money to buy a throwaway cell phone. He knows that Navidad is about sentiments
more than words, and on that night, he will find a quiet corner of his rooming
house and call home.

He says when they ask how he is, he will tell them: ''We are suffering, but God
is on our side.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Josh Gosfield)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Recesses Trial In Immigrant Deaths

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 17


Prosecutors failed to prove that a truck driver harbored illegal immigrants in a
fatal smuggling case, a federal judge said Thursday.

The judge, Vanessa D. Gilmore of Federal District Court, recessed the trial for
the day while the question of whether to drop 19 of 58 counts against the
driver, Tyrone M. Williams, remained unanswered.

She asked both sides to submit arguments on the issue.

Mr. Williams, 34, is charged with 58 counts of harboring and transporting more
than 70 illegal immigrants in his tractor-trailer from South Texas. Seventeen of
the immigrants were found dead in the hot, airless trailer, and two died shortly
afterward.

Mr. Williams could still face execution if he is found guilty in the case.

Mr. Williams also faces one count of conspiracy, 19 counts of transporting
immigrants in a manner that resulted in their deaths and 19 counts of
transporting immigrants in a manner that resulted in serious injury.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: New Mexico: Crash Kills Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By Joseph Kolb (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 60 words


Three people were killed on Thursday when a sport utility vehicle, with unclear
documentation and carrying up to 15 illegal immigrants, cut off a
tractor-trailer on Interstate 40 near Laguna, west of Albuquerque. A spokesman
for the state police said the S.U.V. swerved in front of the truck. Three
occupants were hospitalized. Others ran away.   Joseph Kolb (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Girls Held As U.S. Fears Suicide Bomb

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Eric Lichtblau in Washington contributed reporting
for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words


Two 16-year-old girls from New York City were arrested last month and charged
with immigration violations after the F.B.I. asserted that they intended to
become suicide bombers, according to a government document. A spokesman for one
of their families, however, said the accusation was false and said the
government had probably misinterpreted a school essay written by one of the
girls.

The girls are both in the country illegally, one born in Guinea and the other
from Bangladesh, and are being held in a family detention center in Leesport, in
southeastern Pennsylvania, according to the document, provided by a federal
agent. They were arrested on March 24, and one appeared at an immigration
hearing on April 1 in York, Pa.

The document, which describes the background of the case, said the F.B.I.
believed the girls presented ''an imminent threat to the security of the United
States based upon evidence that they plan to be suicide bombers.'' It does not
describe the nature of that evidence.

But one federal official, not connected to the F.B.I., expressed skepticism that
the teenagers represented a real risk of a suicide bombing.

''There are doubts about these claims, and no evidence has been found that such
a plot was in the works,'' said the government official in Washington, who spoke
on the condition of anonymity because the case involves a pending legal matter.
A senior law enforcement official in New York voiced the same doubts.

The case is the latest run-in between immigrants, both legal and illegal, and
federal officials who have become much more aggressive in acting against
potential terrorist threats in the post-9/11 world. While advocates for
immigrants have said that many innocent people are being swept up in antiterror
efforts, government officials have said their vigilance is necessary.

Adem Carroll, a community activist with the Islamic Circle of North America who
first approached this reporter about the case on behalf of one of the girls'
parents, said the case appeared to be ''an investigation that's gotten out of
hand, like a lot of other so-called terror investigations.'' He added, ''I'm
confident that things will be cleared up.''

Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a division
of the Homeland Security Department, would not elaborate on the investigation.

''ICE special agents have arrested two juveniles on administrative immigration
violations, and both remain in ICE custody,'' said Mr. Van Pelt. Citing
''longstanding policy regarding juveniles in our custody,'' he declined to
comment further.

The Guinean girl entered the United States with her family in 1990 on a visitor
visa, according to the document, and lives with her parents along with four
siblings who are United States citizens. She and her parents have overstayed
their original visas, it said, and her father has been arrested on immigration
charges.

The Bangladeshi girl entered the country in 1994, according to the document, and
her mother unsuccessfully applied for asylum. Two of her three siblings were
born here.

According to Mr. Carroll, the parents of the Bangladeshi girl, who live in
Queens Village, went to the local police station house several weeks ago,
seeking a complaint against their teenage daughter, who had defied their
authority. The family dispute was soon resolved, and they then tried to withdraw
the complaint, which they believe set off the investigation.

Police detectives, and then federal immigration agents, searched her belongings
and confiscated her computer and the essays that she had written as part of a
home schooling program, according to the family. One essay concerned suicide.
The family maintained that the essay asserted that suicide is against Islamic
law, but it led investigators to question her sharply about her political
beliefs.

Detectives from the precinct went to the girl's home to question her about two
weeks before her arrest, Mr. Carroll said, asking about her absence from a
public high school since September. The mother said her daughter would be
schooled at home and was seeking a high school equivalency degree because of
conflicts between her Islamic dress code -- a full veil -- and the school's
dress code.

According to the family, the detectives, who had no warrant, searched the house
and the teenager's belongings. The next day, the mother received a phone call
from one of the detectives, a woman, saying that her daughter had extremist
beliefs and promoted concepts like suicide bombing. Both mother and daughter
denied the allegation, saying that she was against such ideas.

Last night, a 20-year-old woman friend of the Bangladeshi teenager said she had
known the young woman for three years and was close to her. Told of the
allegations, she responded in disbelief, ''That's crazy.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Mexico: 432 Illegal Migrants Rounded Up

BYLINE: By Antonio Betancourt (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 69 words


The authorities in southern Chiapas State captured 432 illegal Central American
migrants traveling in the boxcars of a freight train from Guatemala City,
Guatemala. They included 213 Hondurans, 93 Salvadorans, 106 Guatemalans and 20
Nicaraguans. The authorities said all of them sought to continue north and enter
the United States illegally. They are to be returned to their own countries.
Antonio Betancourt (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  New England: New Hampshire: Illegal Immigrant Cleared

BYLINE: By Katie Zezima (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 123 words


The Hudson police have dropped charges against one of 10 illegal immigrants
charged with criminal trespassing. Chief Richard Gendron said the case against
the man, Margarito Jaramillo-Escobar, 23, was dropped based on the ''the
evidence available'' in the case, but he would not elaborate.

Three other men charged with trespassing are to appear in court today. Mr.
Jaramillo-Escobar was cited in May after he and another man were pulled over on
a traffic violation. The police in Hudson and New Ipswich have charged more than
a dozen illegal immigrants with breaking a state law against criminal
trespassing after they admitted to being in the country illegally. Conviction on
the charge carries a fine of up to $1,000.  Katie Zezima (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Asia: Japan: Official Says Bobby Fischer Must Go To U.S.

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 100 words


Japan's top immigration official ruled out granting Bobby Fischer his wish to
leave for Iceland, saying that by law he can only be deported to his homeland,
the United States. Mr.

Fischer has been detained in Japan since July on charges of traveling on an
invalid American passport and is wanted in the United States for violating
sanctions against Yugoslavia by playing a chess match there in 1992. Iceland,
where Mr. Fischer won the world chess title against the Soviet master Boris
Spassky in 1972, has offered Mr. Fischer a home and issued him a special
passport.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 9, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swift Road for U.S. Citizen Soldiers Already Fighting in Iraq

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Damien Cave contributed reporting from New York for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 979 words

DATELINE: CAMP VICTORY, Iraq


For Specialist James Garrovillas, enlisting in the Army meant more than just
joining the military.

It meant joining the United States.

In a 50-minute ceremony in late July, Specialist Garrovillas and 142 other
service members took the oath of citizenship inside one of Saddam Hussein's
palaces here, now part of the headquarters of the American command in western
Baghdad. Between white marble walls, a brass band struck up ''God Bless
America.''

Before the Sept. 11 attacks, American naturalization ceremonies had taken place
on foreign soil only twice -- during the Korean War and in the 1990's, with
Filipino veterans of World War II. But since last year, teams of immigration
officers have been jetting to military bases around the world to do interviews
and carry out naturalization ceremonies.

The event here was the biggest of the Iraq war so far. The troops came from 46
countries -- many from Mexico, but also some from Jamaica, Nigeria, Turkey and
Vietnam. Until now, all had been risking their lives fighting for a nation that
had not counted them among its citizens.

''I think it's awesome,'' Specialist Garrovillas, 28, of San Diego, said with a
wide grin as he held a certificate in one hand and a tightly folded American
flag in the other. ''I've waited for years to get it. It's nice having it in a
palace in Iraq. It beats having it in the United States.''

Specialist Garrovillas is among 20,000 military service members who have become
American citizens since July 2002, many of whom applied under a fast-track
process approved by President Bush in 2003 and enacted in October 2004. Under
the new rules, people in the military can become citizens without paying the
customary $320 application fee or having to be in the United States for an
interview with immigration officials and naturalization proceedings.

The president also made thousands of service members immediately eligible for
citizenship by not requiring them to meet a minimum residency threshold, as
civilians applying to be citizens must do, although they must still be legal
residents of the United States.

The new citizenship laws have offered a powerful tool to recruiters at a time
when the military is struggling to meet its monthly enlistment quotas. The armed
forces now have at least 27,000 members who do not have United States
citizenship.

Some military outfits around the world have long relied on the same lure. The
French Foreign Legion, for instance, grants French citizenship to its members,
and consequently attracts many Eastern Europeans. Some joke that the privilege
of citizenship comes more easily now to American troops than sex or alcohol,
both banned in a war zone.

''Before they were citizens, they were willing to fight for it, to risk
everything for it,'' Lt. Gen. John R. Vines, the commander of combat operations
in Iraq, said as he presided over the ceremony here. ''They know the risks that
face America. They know the risks that face the world.''

Of the changes pushed through by Mr. Bush, the one that gives military service
members the biggest advantage over civilians in applying for citizenship is the
waiving of any residency requirement. But most military applicants do not need
that waiver, because they have lived in the United States or served in the armed
forces long enough anyway, said Kendra Shyne, an immigration officer based in
Frankfurt, who flew to Iraq with two colleagues to conduct citizenship
interviews in the three days before the naturalization ceremony on July 25.

Specialist Garrovillas, for example, was born in the Philippines but lived in
the United States for 23 years, growing up in Southern California. He joined the
Army three years ago and decided to apply for citizenship before his Iraq
deployment to get higher security clearances and other job-related benefits, he
said.

''Having the passport is also nice,'' said Specialist Garrovillas, of the 44th
Corps Support Battalion. ''I'm the fourth person in my family to get it. My
older brother was a marine, and he became a citizen back in '92.''

Another new citizen, Cpl. Mario Rivera, 23, originally from Honduras, said, ''I
applied when they told me it was going to be free.''

Asked what benefits he believed came with citizenship, the corporal replied,
''Not a lot.''

''You can apply for federal jobs,'' he said. ''That's about it.''

Standing next to him, Specialist Kerryann Simpson, 21, from Jamaica, had a less
blase take.

''It was wonderful,'' she said of the ceremony. ''It's an experience meeting
people from different countries.''

''I wanted to apply for citizenship for a better job,'' she added.

Military life was all Specialist Simpson knew of the adult world. She said she
joined the Army right after finishing high school in Windsor, Conn. She had
grown up in Jamaica and moved to the United States seven years ago.

Those applying for the citizenship ceremony in Iraq first filled out
applications that took about six to eight weeks to process, including background
checks. Then Ms. Shyne and two other women from the Citizenship and Immigration
Services, once known as the Immigration and Naturalization Service, flew from
Europe to conduct brief interviews here. The applicants came to Camp Victory
from military bases scattered across Iraq; no one was rejected for citizenship.

In the course of doing the interviews, the immigration officials discovered that
seven applicants already were citizens -- they were under 18 when their parents
had become citizens, and so they had automatically been granted citizenship. But
the seven were still included in the ceremony, for the sake of pomp.

''It was pretty sad because my whole family was U.S. citizens, and I'm the only
one who wasn't a U.S. citizen,'' said Specialist Jobert Floresca, 24, who was
born in the Philippines. ''I didn't find out until today that I'm a U.S.
citizen.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: One hundred and forty-three troops from 46 nations took the oath
of citizenship in a former Hussein palace. (Photo by Johan Spanner/Polaris, for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 27, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As August Recess Looms, Congress Finds High Gear

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Edmund L. Andrews, Carl Hulse and David D.
Kirkpatrick contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1489 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26


In a mad dash to rack up some accomplishments before Congress leaves town for
its five-week August recess, the Senate on Tuesday temporarily abandoned work on
a defense policy bill and took up a measure, likely to pass and laden with
political implications for Democrats, that will shield gun manufacturers from
lawsuits.

Those are just two of the many measures pending as lawmakers prepare to go home
for their longest break of the year, traditionally a time for progress reports
to constituents.

The House is preparing for a vote on a measure that would remove trade barriers
between the United States and Central America, while both chambers are wrestling
with how to handle an energy measure and a highway bill. A Senate committee,
meanwhile, held its first hearing on Tuesday on competing proposals to create a
guest worker program for illegal immigrants.

Senator Bill Frist, the Republican leader, has said he may bring up a measure to
permanently repeal the estate tax, a move that would make good on a promise to
economic conservatives, who have made the repeal a high priority.

Mr. Frist also wants the Senate this week to pass a spending bill for the
Department of the Interior, including more money to cover a shortfall in
veterans' health care. House and Senate negotiators on Tuesday agreed to provide
$1.5 billion; now the entire package needs to come before both chambers for a
vote.

''Our schedule dictates addressing the gun liability bill, Department of
Defense, Interior appropriations, energy and highways, all of which I plan on
doing this week,'' Mr. Frist said. ''That is my plan, and I intend to fulfill
it.''

Here is a glimpse at some of what is on the Congressional plate:

Defense Policy

  The decision to quit work on the defense bill is likely to put off until after
Labor Day politically charged fights over treatment of detainees and
recommendations to close military bases. The White House has warned it will veto
the measure if it contains provisions regulating the treatment of detainees or
altering the recommendations of a base closing commission.

Mr. Frist, seeking to avoid those fights, sought to cut off debate on the
measure and bring it to a vote. But with Republicans like Senator John W. Warner
of Virginia advocating debate on the detainees, and Senator John Thune of South
Dakota pressing for a discussion of base closings, Mr. Frist fell 10 votes short
of the 60 he needed, and moved to bring up the gun bill instead.

That provoked an outcry from Democrats, who had intended to use the defense bill
to promote a range of measures like increasing compensation for veterans and
raising death benefits for war widows.

''I am at a loss as to how this Republican Senate majority sets its
priorities,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, adding,
''For heaven's sakes, what is more important to this country: taking care of our
troops, our veterans, their dependents? What is more important? Should the gun
liability legislation trump this? The obvious answer is no. But it did.''

Gun Liability

  The Senate voted 66 to 32 to take up the gun measure, which would shield
firearms manufacturers from lawsuits as long as they did not make or sell
defective products. Despite the bipartisan support -- 12 Democrats joined 54
Republicans to approve opening debate on the bill -- the vote sparked an uproar
from the bill's Democratic opponents.

''Senator Frist is hellbent on helping the gun industry,'' the No. 2 Democrat in
the Senate, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, told reporters, adding, ''This is his
summer gift to a special interest group.''

A similar bill failed in the Senate last year after the gun lobby, angered by
Democratic amendments, instructed Republicans to withdraw their support. This
year, with a strengthened Republican majority and the backing of a number of
Democrats in Republican-leaning states, including Mr. Reid, its chances for
passage are good, people on both sides say.

''The numbers are not on our side at this moment, but I hope that will change,''
Mr. Durbin said.

The bill would spare gun makers from lawsuits, filed by states and
municipalities, that seek to hold them responsible for crimes committed with
their products. So far, the industry has not lost any such suits, but officials
at the National Rifle Association say they are especially concerned about a law
passed by the District of Columbia and upheld by an appeals court that holds gun
makers liable when their weapons are used in crimes.

''The D.C. law will put out of business every American firearms manufacturer,''
warned Wayne LaPierre, the association's executive vice president.

Opponents say the threat is vastly overstated. ''There's been no rash of
questionable jury awards,'' said Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island.

Immigration

  Creating a guest worker program, which would affect an estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants now living in the United States, as well as others who seek
to come here, is one of President Bush's top legislative priorities. So it was a
big surprise on Tuesday when no one from the Bush administration showed up at
the Senate Judiciary Committee's first hearing on the topic.

''I am very disappointed,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, a
sponsor of one of the proposals, adding, ''This is an issue they should have
been heavily involved in a long time ago.''

Erin Healy, a White House spokeswoman, said that the president had not taken a
position on either proposal, and that administration officials might testify at
future hearings. ''The administration is consulting with Congress to discuss
realistic, comprehensive immigration reform,'' Ms. Healy said.

Both Mr. McCain's proposal, and an alternative sponsored by Senator John Cornyn,
Republican of Texas, seek to fortify border security to prevent unauthorized
immigrants from entering the country.

Mr. McCain's bill would allow illegal immigrants now in the United States to pay
a fine to enter the guest work program, and eventually become eligible for
citizenship. Mr. Cornyn's alternative would require illegal immigrants to return
at least briefly to their native countries before gaining a temporary worker
permit that would allow them re-entry for up to two years. They would then have
to go abroad again for at least a year before being allowed to come back.

Mr. Cornyn said the goal was to avoid rewarding lawbreakers, but Mr. McCain
called the proposal ''totally impractical.''

Highway Bill

  House and Senate leaders continued to predict they could squeeze through a
long-overdue $286 billion highway and mass transportation measure stuffed with
local construction projects, but a deal remained elusive.

Lawmakers and aides say the latest dispute to plague what is traditionally one
of the most popular pieces of legislation is a labor issue surrounding mass
transit.

The federal highway construction program has been kept running through a series
of temporary extensions, and if Congress fails to act again before leaving for a
monthlong vacation, it will have again missed much of the summer highway
construction season.

The bill stalled last year when Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders could not
agree on the spending level, with the president threatening to veto any plan
that exceeded $284 billion. Congress appears ready to move above that threshold,
a prospect that Tuesday brought a letter to the president from prominent
conservative leaders.

''Congress is nearing completion of a highway bill that will surely rank as one
of the worst examples of pork-barrel spending of all time,'' said the letter.
''If, as expected, it exceeds the spending limits you proposed, we're counting
on you to stand up for conservative economic principles by vetoing the bill.''

Estate Tax

  Senate Republicans have not given up trying to repeal the tax on estates, a
cherished goal of many conservatives, but they do not yet have enough votes to
succeed.

The cost of the bill is high, about $290 billion over the next 10 years,
according to the Joint Tax Committee of Congress. But that understates the true
cost because full repeal would not occur until 2010. Over the 10 years after
that, the costs would total more than $700 billion.

Disparaged by Republicans as the ''death tax,'' the tax currently affects
estates worth more than $1.5 million, less than 10 percent of all estates. But
the issue has enormous political resonance, thanks in large part to campaigns
over the past 20 years by small-business owners, big-business lobbyists, farmers
and grass-roots organizations financed by some of the nation's richest families.

Republican lawmakers and groups fighting for repeal of the estate tax are split
between the tactics of purists, who insist they want nothing short of outright
repeal, and pragmatists, who argue that they cannot get 60 Senate votes needed
for full repeal, and want to cut a deal that would stop short of that.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jack Reed, right, with a staff member, Gregory McCarthy,
before a Capitol Hill news conference yesterday in which Mr. Reed, Democrat of
Rhode Island, criticized proposed gun legislation. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In the Kitchen, A Taste of America

BYLINE: As told to Seth Kugel, who translated some interviews from the Spanish

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE: SCENES; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 329 words


The kitchen at Le Bernardin, the celebrated French seafood restaurant on West
51st Street, bustles with immigrant workers from Latin America and the
Caribbean. Many start out as dishwashers and move up the ranks, learning
culinary skills (and how to work in a stressful environment) along the way.

Manuel Coatl Flores
25, of Washington Heights.
Originally from Mexico.

 I'm a pastry chef. I make ice cream, pastries, the dough for tarts, chocolate
mixes, sauces. I had worked once making cakes in Mexico, but that was different.
Here there's a lot of pressure, the rhythm is much faster. I dedicate a lot of
my free time to reviewing what I learned that day.

Sometimes when I get home, I start copying the recipes that they're teaching me
into a notebook. My children in Mexico have a lot of photos of me preparing
things, in the refrigerator, in the freezer, with the ice cream machine. I even
sent them a book I was given about the history of the kitchen here.

Serafina Paulino
33, of Washington Heights.
Originally from the Dominican Republic.

 I used to work in a factory, packaging shampoo, creams, lotions, everything.
Here I work at the fish bar.

First, I prepare the lobster. I kill it, I cut it up, and then I clean the
hamachi, make the mesclun salad. They taught me all that here. When I cook at
home, I've sometimes prepared things that I prepare here. I didn't used to use
lobster, but now I make asopao, rice soup, with lobster. It's a Dominican
recipe, but with things from here.

Fernando Uruchima
31, of Flushing, Queens.
Originally from Ecuador.

 Responsibility is very important for me in my position as a steward. I think I
learned that here. Now that I've been here for many years, they ask, 'Where's
Fernando?' because they know I'm the one who knows where everything is.

But I don't think it's changed me outside of work. I'm not very responsible
around the house. If I have to do something, I let it go until tomorrow or maybe
later, or maybe I just don't do it.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers And Bernard Kerik

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 130 words



To the Editor:

Bernard B. Kerik's withdrawal as the nominee to run the Department of Homeland
Security (''Kerik Withdraws as Bush's Nominee for Security Post,'' front page,
Dec. 11) highlights an increasingly inarguable truth: even wealthy and powerful
Americans rely on undocumented immigrant workers. Why? Because they do the work
we need at the lowest price.

The American people need to match their insatiable desire for cheap labor with
legal protections for these important economic participants. We need to stop
whining about immigrants taking jobs away from Americans and realize that
Americans will not do this work for the wages that Americans are willing to pay.
Until then, we can expect to see more of these unfortunate embarrassments.

Juno Turner
Brooklyn, Dec. 11, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Choices on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 159 words



To the Editor:

President Bush does not ''untangle a system that he recognizes as inhumane''
when the only immigrants welcome here are the ones who ''will take the jobs that
Americans won't take.'' This guest-worker program neither untangles the system
nor recognizes how inhumanely it treats immigrants.

People are treated as less than human and as therefore not deserving of human
dignity and human rights.

A disembodied pair of arms that picks strawberries in California may not need a
home, but a real human being who works in the fields and returns to a family at
night does.

Recognize the full humanity of immigrants -- as individuals who exist as part of
a family, families that participate in community activities.

Working is only one way that people contribute to a community. To allow this
contribution while systematically denying the same people the opportunity to
build a complete human life is immoral.

Sarah Mullins
St. Paul, Dec. 29, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sam Weber)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Choices on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 64 words



To the Editor:

President Bush's immigration proposal has nothing to do with compassion; it is
an outrageous effort to give business interests something they have been after
for years -- the ability to replace high-wage American workers with low-wage
foreign workers, without the inconvenience of having to relocate their
operations to another country.

John Brock
Staten Island, Dec. 29, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 20, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Clears Way for Vote On Spending For Military

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19


The Senate broke through a logjam of conflicting immigration proposals that had
bogged down passage of an $80 billion emergency supplemental military spending
bill, clearing the way on Tuesday for a vote on the measure within the next two
weeks.

The Senate voted 94 to 6 to incorporate an amendment, sponsored by Senator
Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, to expand the number of foreign
workers that employers could hire for temporary seasonal jobs by exempting
seasonal workers from previous years from the current yearly limits.

Proponents of creating a much broader foreign guest-worker program, however,
claimed symbolic victories in two other votes. The Senate voted 53 to 45 in
favor of ending debate on a proposal by Senator Larry E. Craig, Republican of
Idaho, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to create a
guest-worker program for agricultural workers that would be open to some
currently illegal immigrants and provide a path to citizenship.

That vote failed to meet the 60 votes required to end debate and thus defeated
the effort to attach the measure to the supplemental spending bill, but
advocates of such guest-worker programs called it a sign of Senate support for
the idea.

In contrast, a vote to close debate on a counterproposal that would have allowed
foreigners to work on American farms for only nine months and required them to
return home before applying for legal status failed, with 21 votes in favor and
77 votes against.

Mr. Craig called the vote for his measure ''significant and growing,'' arguing
that more senators would have voted in favor of the proposal outside of the
context of the military spending bill, when the Republican Senate leaders
opposed adding the amendments.

''This sends a very loud message to this Congress that we will do something,''
Mr. Craig said. ''The leadership knows that if there is inaction, we will be
back voting on this issue.''

The votes set the terms of the debate over immigration policy expected to take
place when members of the Senate meet later this month with their House
counterparts to combine the two versions of the spending bill.

The Senate and the House are each leaning toward opposite sides of a debate that
divides the Republican Party between populist and cultural conservatives eager
to limit immigration and business groups seeking more foreign workers.

Although the Senate version allows more temporary workers, the House version
included provisions intended to tighten United States border security by
blocking states from issuing standard driver's licenses to illegal immigrants,
making it harder for immigrants to win asylum and waiving environmental
regulations that have impeded construction of a barrier along the border near
San Diego.

Many Republicans in each house have expressed doubts about a proposal by
President Bush for a broad guest-worker program that would create a way for
currently illegal immigrants to obtain citizenship.

''I think that telling temporary workers that you are on a path to permanent
residency and citizenship is offensive to many people, because we shouldn't
allow people who have come here illegally to break in line ahead of others who
have tried to do it the right way,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of
Texas.

After the Senate completed its votes, Senator John McCain, Republican of
Arizona, said he and Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, planned to
propose an amendment seeking to remove the many ''nonessential pork barrel''
projects Congress has added to the supplemental spending bill.

Among the items he and Mr. McCain cited: $10 million for a library at the
University of Hawaii; $2.4 million for forest services in California; $23
million for the United States Capitol police to build an off-site delivery
facility; $5 million for wind-energy research in the Dakotas; $500,000 for an
oral history project at the University of Nevada; $55 million for a waste-water
treatment facility in Mississippi; $1 million to combat lobster disease in the
Northeast; and $5 million for a fish hatchery in Montana and other provisions
relating to the habitat of the Rio Grande silvery minnow.

''Does the author believe the fish may enlist in our armed forces?'' Mr. McCain
asked. ''Perhaps the silvery minnow could enlist with the Fort Peck, Montana,
fish.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Killing Leaves Suburbanites Wary of Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By JANON FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: NEW CITY, N.Y., May 2


When Pablo Sandoval, a 42-year-old Guatemalan contractor with many years in this
middle-class town and a long list of references, showed up on Saturday with his
crew for a scheduled job, he was told to leave.

''The lady told me, 'Pablo, I don't want to see you today,''' said Mr. Sandoval,
who has run a painting and construction company in this area for 22 years. She
was not the only one; three other clients have called to cancel since Saturday.

In this bedroom community in Rockland County 45 minutes north of New York City,
the sight and sound of immigrant men trimming lawns is a spring ritual as
reliable as the sight of the first robin, but it has generated a new fear that
was not there just a few days ago.

On Friday, Mary Nagle, a 42-year-old housewife and mother of two, was found
raped and killed in her bedroom.

After a three-hour search, the police arrested Douglas Herrera, 39, the employee
of a painting company that the Nagles had hired to paint their deck. An autopsy
report released Monday by the Rockland County medical examiner's office
determined that Mrs. Nagle was raped, beaten and choked to death.

Mr. Herrera, a Guatemalan immigrant, who had been left alone by his boss at the
Nagle home, pleaded not guilty to charges of murder in the first and second
degree.

The police say that just 13 minutes after the crime was committed, friends and
relatives whose telephone numbers were on Mrs. Nagle's cellphone began to
receive taunting calls from Mr. Herrera.

Suburbanites preoccupied by work, soccer practice and other obligations rely on
local contractors to mow their lawns, repair their porches and paint their house
trim.

In New City, one of the small, quiet towns near the Tappan Zee Bridge, at this
time of year it is common to see pickup trucks pulling flatbed trailers laden
with weed trimmers and lawn mowers idling at traffic lights.

The crews who ride the trucks and do the work are largely immigrant, some legal
and some not, who live in towns like Spring Valley, where Mr. Herrera lived in a
dilapidated house on crime-ridden Union Road.

The relationship between Spring Valley and New City seemed, if not fully
equitable, at least functional until Mrs. Nagle was killed. Now, as Mr.
Sandoval's cancellations seem to indicate, a wariness has developed.

''I hold the contractor liable,'' said Justin Santos, 32, an engineer who lives
in New City, referring to the companies like Color On Painting, which employed
Mr. Herrera. ''They should have background checks. Right now they go down to the
McDonald's on Route 45 and pick up a guy for the day.''

Mr. Herrera was hired by Color On Painting based on the referral of another
employee, according to the New City police.

One contractor said he could not research the background of all his employees.

''They don't even require background checks at the schools,'' said Mark Kogan, a
Spring Valley landscaper. ''I can't watch these guys all the time. I wouldn't
make any money.''

Mr. Sandoval said he feared that the backlash would not go away any time soon.

''People don't feel safe these days,'' he said. ''There aren't any white people
who are going to feel safe now. I don't blame them. My wife feels the same
way.''

Mr. Sandoval happened to know Mr. Herrera. He hired him to paint several rooms
in his own house.

''He was quiet; he was a good worker,'' Mr. Sandoval said. ''I left for lunch
and when I got back he had finished the room.''

Still, Mr. Sandoval said, if the charges against Mr. Herrera are true, he
shudders at the memory.

''I have a 15-year-old daughter and he was in my house,'' he said. ''It's
terrible.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 16, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Sting Puts 2 Federal Agencies at Odds

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15


The 48 immigrants thought they were attending mandatory safety training by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration. But it was not until they showed
up to the meeting in Goldsboro, N.C., last week that they discovered they had
been summoned for an altogether different reason.

Federal immigration officials had posted fliers telling immigrant workers for
several subcontractors at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Goldsboro that they
had to attend a safety meeting. There was no meeting, however; instead there was
a sting operation in which immigration officials arrested 48 people on charges
that they were illegal immigrants from Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and
Ukraine.

The action had one branch of the federal government speaking out against
another. The United States Labor Department as well as North Carolina's Labor
Department on Friday criticized the sting, suggesting that it would make
immigrant workers distrust safety officials just when safety agencies across the
nation are stepping up efforts to reduce the disproportionately high injury rate
among Hispanic workers.

Pam Groover, a spokeswoman for the federal labor department , said, ''This is
not something we were involved in, and we do not condone the use of OSHA's name
in this type of activity.'' The Occupational Safety and Health Administration is
the branch of the federal Labor Department that sets and enforces standards for
workplace safety. Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the federal Bureau of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, which carried out the sting, said it was part of a
stepped-up effort to crack down on illegal immigrants working at chemical
plants, nuclear plants and other sensitive facilities.

Defending the use of ruses, Mr. Boyd said: ''The primary reason to use tactics
like this in federal law enforcement is to get people in a location where they
can be arrested without running all over the place. That helps ensure the safety
of these immigrants, the agents, the air base and the community at large.''

Mr. Boyd said that as far as he knew this was the first time that immigration
officials had enticed immigrants by representing themselves as OSHA officials.

''We certainly understand OSHA's concerns about the use of their name,'' Mr.
Boyd said. ''We're putting in place procedures to ensure appropriate
coordination.''

Mr. Boyd said the immigration bureau also used a ruse to help gather 60 illegal
immigrants who were arrested on May 20 at petrochemical plants in six states. He
declined to discuss details, but he said immigration and prosecutors have long
used subterfuges to bring in people for arrest.

''For many years we have used undercover techniques in drug investigations, arms
investigations and money-laundering investigations,'' Mr. Boyd said.

Juan Santos, the spokesman for North Carolina labor commissioner, Cherie Killian
Berry, a Republican, said he hoped such stings using the OSHA name would never
happen again.

''We're not at all opposed to what the federal government is doing to fight
illegal immigration,'' Mr. Santos said. ''Our concern is that when you start
stinging people using the name of safety officials, you undermine the trust
relationships we work very hard to build to help promote safety with employers
and employees.''

Immigrant groups and labor groups said the sting sent the wrong message when the
federal and state labor departments had undertaken programs to reduce workplace
injuries for Hispanics. In 2001, Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao announced an
education and training effort to reduce fatalities among Hispanic workers after
studies showed their fatality rate was 20 percent higher than those of white and
black workers.

''We think it's an absolute outrage and danger for the immigration authorities
to use this type of tactic,'' said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at
the National Council of La Raza, an advocacy group for Hispanics. ''Our labor
law system is completely complaint-driven, and our ability to keep the work
force safe depends on workers being able to complain, and by masquerading as
OSHA officials, immigration authorities will clearly discourage immigrant
workers from coming forward. This won't affect just immigrant workers, it will
affect the safety of all workers.''

Joe Hansen, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which
represents more than 100,000 Hispanic workers, said, ''The word being brought
back to worksites after a scam like this is that OSHA can't be trusted. That
kind of perception diminishes OSHA's ability to do the critical work of
protecting America's labor force.''

Felipe Bravo, a 47-year-old immigrant from Mexico City, was arrested at the
meeting at the Air Force base, but was released when he proved that he was an
American citizen. But he said his brother, Domingo, was arrested and faces
deportation. They installed air conditioners and heating equipment, while many
of the others worked in construction, lawn mowing or cleaning.

Mr. Bravo said that the government officials first served coffee and doughnuts
and that one official stood up and said, ''I got good news and bad news. The
good news is we are not from OSHA, and the bad news is we're from the
immigration office.''

He said a swarm of immigration agents then entered the theater.

''It's not fair because they got my brother on false information, on having
false papers, but they also used false information,'' Mr. Bravo said. ''I agree
with the government about trying to protect us against terrorism. That's good.
But these people aren't terrorists. They came here to work.''

Mr. Boyd said, ''We believe it is a very serious vulnerability when there are
illegal aliens working at Air Force bases, nuclear power plants, chemical plants
and airports. They have access to some of the most sensitive work sites in the
U.S. Our job is to take actions to immediately remove them from positions where
they can do harm.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Union Organizers at Poultry Plants in South Find Newly Sympathetic Ears

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1459 words

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, Tenn.


Hour after hour, Antonia Lopez Paz said, her supervisor at the Koch Foods
poultry plant here told women on the deboning line that production demands were
so great that they could not go to the bathroom.

Sometimes she developed acute pain because she could not go, Ms. Lopez said. And
one time when another woman asked for permission, ''the supervisor took off his
hard hat and told her, 'You can go to the bathroom in this,''' said Ms. Lopez, a
Mexican immigrant who moved to this town in East Tennessee three years ago,
lured by the company's promise of year-round work.

Out of her solitary complaint has grown a thriving unionization drive that fits
neatly into the plans of several insurgent unions that hope to revive the labor
movement by focusing on low-wage workers and immigrant workers.

''We believe there is a need for a union to come in and help these workers,''
said Joe Hansen, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers, which is
organizing workers at the two Koch Foods plants here. ''The conditions in some
of these places are criminal, especially in the way they treat undocumented
workers, and it's criminal that they often get away with it.''

This summer Mr. Hansen's union joined the Teamsters and the Service Employees
International Union in breaking away from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., with those three
unions promising to devote far more energy to recruiting workers than the rest
of organized labor has. Two organizing drives aimed at poultry workers -- one in
this old factory town and the other in Russellville, Ala. -- are among the early
battles in this effort to reinvigorate labor.

As part of their new push, the insurgent unions say they will seek to build deep
community support among local houses of worship, political leaders and immigrant
groups. They also plan to lend organizers to one other's drives, something the
food and commercial workers could use because it has few Spanish-speaking
organizers in areas like Morristown, where the Hispanic population is soaring.

The 700 poultry workers here, most of them Mexicans, might seem ripe for
organizing, but labor's efforts at resurgence face daunting obstacles. Companies
often fight back tooth and nail, and many immigrants who are initially
sympathetic to unions ultimately shy away, fearing that their employers might
grow angry and fire them or have them deported.

''It's been extraordinarily difficult to organize factory workers -- and that
includes poultry workers -- in the South,'' said Daniel Cornfield, a labor
expert at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. ''There's plenty of employer
resistance in this neck of the woods. And then there's another problem --
there's an unfamiliarity between unions and immigrants, far more so in the South
than on the coasts. Unions here don't know much about the culture of immigrant
workers, and then many immigrant workers are unfamiliar with U.S. labor
unions.''

But Ms. Lopez was the exception, knowing a good deal about American unions. The
daughter of a migrant worker, she saw how the United Farm Workers helped her
father when he harvested vegetables in Arizona.

Last April she quit Koch Foods because she was pregnant and the managers
rejected her request to be transferred to a less rigorous position. Her job as a
wing cutter was so arduous that she feared it would jeopardize her pregnancy.

Like many other workers, she disliked the 42-chickens-a-minute line speed. That
pace means that many workers make 18,000 cuts during their eight-hour shifts as
they prepare breasts, wings, tenders and cutlets for restaurants and consumers.

''What I didn't like is they would yell at us and tell us we're good for nothing
and we didn't know how to work, and sometimes they wouldn't even let us leave to
go home when we were sick,'' Ms. Lopez said as she nursed her month-old son.
''We need to convince people to join the union, that they shouldn't be afraid
because the union is the only way to make things better and stop them from
mistreating at us.''

Officials with Koch Foods declined requests to be interviewed. But at
proceedings that the Tennessee Occupational Safety and Health Administration
held in response to Ms. Lopez's bathroom complaint, Koch representatives said
their supervisors were attentive to workers' concerns and gave adequate bathroom
breaks.

Several Koch workers said the bathroom break situation improved after the
unionization drive began, although some workers said problems remained. In
August the state's safety administration dismissed their complaints for lack of
evidence.

After Ms. Lopez quit, the unionization drive continued to gain momentum, fueled
by the complaints about mistreatment and low wages. The top pay is $7.55 an
hour, even for employees there a decade.

''That level of pay is a misery, an embarrassment, considering how hard we
work,'' said Ernestina Gonzalez, who earns the top wage and said she could not
afford the premiums for the health insurance the company offers.

In northwest Alabama, 280 miles to the west, workers at the Gold Kist plant in
Russellville voice similar complaints about line speed, wages and bathroom
breaks. But many Gold Kist employees also complain about how injuries are
handled. Most of the plant's 1,500 workers are Hispanic, but there are also many
blacks and whites.

One day last December, Delores Smith slipped on a greasy metal plate. Ms. Smith,
who prepares boxes to hold processed chickens, crashed to the floor and was in
agony, certain that she had broken her right ankle.

She said Gold Kist's nurse did not even look at her ankle and told her that she
must have sprained some ligaments and should take ibuprofen and go home. After a
supervisor took her to her car, Ms. Smith looked at her ankle and saw pieces of
bone protruding through her sock. When her son took her to the emergency room,
X-rays showed that her ankle was broken in three places.

Ms. Smith still limps slightly, but now she has another health crisis. Her job
involves removing folded-up boxes that workers upstairs send to her via a chute.
Those boxes often tumble out, and one day in July the boxes knocked her
eyeglasses to the floor, breaking the frames.

Looking comical in her taped-together glasses, Ms. Smith said: ''They sent me
home for the day, saying it was my fault. I also got a write-up. My glasses
can't even be fixed.''

At first, Gold Kist refused to pay for new glasses, which she said would cost
$378. With her base wage of $8.40 an hour, that would exceed her weekly pay.
Workers who do not arrive late or miss a day for a whole week receive a
75-cent-an-hour bonus.

The company, she said, has now offered to pay $38 toward the glasses. She hopes
to get some more from workers' compensation.

Ms. Smith said she and the two other workers in her unit often could not go to
the bathroom for hours at a time because the pace was so demanding and there was
nobody to replace them.

''They don't respect us at all,'' she said. ''That's why I'm praying for a
union.''

Yurken Pozo, who quit in early August, said Gold Kist was campaigning hard
against unionization.

''They gathered the workers together and kept telling us: 'We don't need a
union. The union will only take your money. The union doesn't help anybody,'''
Mr. Pozo said.

Wayne Lord, Gold Kist's vice president for corporate relations, said the
company's policy was to provide workers with needed bathroom breaks. He voiced
surprise about Ms. Smith's health care complaints, saying Gold Kist had a
telephone line that employees could call anonymously to report problems about
bathroom breaks or medical treatment.

Gold Kist has long told employees why it thinks unions are unnecessary, Mr. Lord
said. That practice helped persuade the Russellville workers to vote down a
union twice in the 1990's.

''We believe our wages are competitive,'' Mr. Lord said. ''We strive everyday to
do the right thing by our employees.''

The union is collecting signatures from workers and may soon ask for recognition
from the company or for a unionization vote.

Back in Morristown, the Koch poultry workers are so united behind a union and
have generated so much community support that they persuaded Koch to pledge not
to mount an anti-union campaign. Several workers spoke at churches, and
ministers, congregants and community groups wrote letters to the company backing
unionization. The workers at Koch's kill plant and deboning plant are expected
to approve unionization in mid-September.

''What Koch did is an important precedent,'' said Anita Grabowski, coordinator
of the Poultry Workers Justice Project, a nonprofit group based in Austin, Tex.
''This new model of community unionism is a way to help rebuild the labor
movement, even in a hostile climate.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yurken Pozo, who quit working for Gold Kist poultry last month,
said the company told workers: ''We don't need a union. The union will only take
your money. The union doesn't help anybody.'' (Photo by Amy E. Voigt for The New
York Times)
A complaint by Antonia Lopez Paz, a former worker at the Koch Foods poultry
plant in Morristown, Tenn., helped prompt a unionization drive. (Photo by Wade
Payne/Associated Press, for The New York Times)
 Delores Smith, who makes $8.40 an hour, broke her glasses on the job. She said
her employer, Gold Kist, offered $38 toward buying new ones. (Photo by Amy E.
Voigt for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 13, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Charges 51 With Chinatown Smuggling

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 658 words


Two violent Chinese gangs started with a string of local gambling parlors and,
in a few quick years, turned the network into a thriving international smuggling
conglomerate, federal authorities said yesterday as they announced arrests to
break up the gangs.

Fifty-one people were charged in connection with the enterprise, which smuggled
immigrants and pirated Gucci handbags from China, according to the indictments
announced yesterday.

Federal, state and city law enforcement officers arrested 29 of them, including
two men they identified as the gangs' leaders, in a sweep that started early
Thursday, United States Attorney David N. Kelley said at a news conference. He
said the roundup was continuing and more arrests were expected.

Customs and other agents also seized $150,000 and counterfeit merchandise worth
$4 million from four warehouses in Manhattan and Queens and from what they
described as a showroom on West 28th Street in Manhattan, said Martin D. Ficke,
the top Homeland Security official for immigration and customs in New York. He
said most of the gang members were illegal immigrants.

The gang members were accused in three indictments of an unusually wide array of
charges, including racketeering, attempted murder, extortion, alien-smuggling
and money-laundering. The gambling parlors that served as their bases were
located on Hester, Allen and Forsyth Streets in Chinatown in Manhattan and on
40th Road and 44th Road in Flushing, Queens, Mr. Kelley said.

''They achieved their dominance through unflinching use of violence and fear,''
he charged. One victim, whom the gang members suspected of cooperating with the
police, suffered a ''beating with pipes until his bones snapped,'' he said.

One man from a rival gang was shot in the head in a turf dispute, and survived
''by a miracle'' because a bullet shattered against his skull, he said. A woman
who failed to pay her gambling debts was severely injured in one eye in a
beating, Mr. Kelley said. All the victims cited in the indictments survived.
Their identities have not yet been made public.

The officials charged that one gang was led by Lim Shang, 31, and the other by
Wang Shao Feng, also 31. Unlike Chinatown crime organizations from the past, the
two gangs did not have names. In contrast to gangs that dominated Chinatown in
the early 1990's, whose power was based on controlling city blocks in the
community, the new gangs grew up around Mr. Wang and Mr. Lim, Mr. Kelley said,
because they were especially ruthless leaders.

The main victims of the gangs' violence were customers who went to their
clandestine gambling parlors to play traditional Chinese card games, the
officials said, and ran up high debts. The gangs did not threaten residents in
the general communities where they operated, as Chinatown gangs did during a
crime wave a decade ago.

One line of gang business was to fly Chinese immigrants to New York with false
passports and airline tickets, charging as much as $70,000 per person, the
officials said. Five gang members are charged with smuggling immigrants and
holding some of them hostage in New York hideouts until the fees were paid.

In the past two years, the import trade became a very lucrative part of the
business, officials said, as the gangs made tens of thousands of dollars a week
selling Louis Vuitton and Gucci knockoffs and American sports team jerseys. Mr.
Ficke said there was evidence that the gangs had laundered as much as $20
million back to associates in China over the past two years.

The officials, including the New York Police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly,
touted the arrests and the two-year investigation as examples of enhanced
cooperation between law enforcement agencies.

By early last evening, about half of the defendants had been arraigned in
Federal District Court in Manhattan, including Mr. Lim, one of the suspected
ringleaders. The arraignments were expected to continue late into the night.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lim Shang, left, and Wang Shao Feng are accused of leading
gangs based in gambling parlors.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 26, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Calls Terror Tip in Boston a False Alarm

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 25


The F.B.I. said Tuesday that the terrorist plot reported against Boston by a
tipster last week was a false alarm.

A law enforcement official in Mexico said a one of two men suspected of
smuggling illegal immigrants made up the story to get back at people who failed
to pay him.

An F.B.I. statement said: ''There were in fact no terrorist plans or activity
under way. Because the criminal investigation is ongoing, no further details can
be provided.''

One of the men, Jose Ernesto Beltran Quinones, was detained over the weekend in
Mexicali, a Mexican border town near San Diego. His son, also named Jose, was
detained Monday. A law enforcement official in Mexico said the two men had been
involved in smuggling Chinese immigrants across the border and told
investigators that smugglers had squabbled over a deal and that one had
anonymously called in the false tip to the American authorities as revenge. The
Mexico attorney general's office said late Tuesday in a statement that the elder
Beltran admitted making the call, but had been under the influence of alcohol
and drugs and insisted the call was a joke. Mr. Beltran denied being a migrant
smuggler, the statement said.

The official, from the Baja California attorney general's office, said the men
told investigators the claim was nothing more than a tall tale.

The two were released; relatives at their houses told reporters on Tuesday that
they were not at home.

The F.B.I. statement did not say whether the father and son had provided the
information that allowed the threat to be ruled out.

The group suspected of being involved in the terror plot also included 13
Chinese immigrants and 2 Iraqis; the authorities later determined that one of
the Chinese had been in federal custody for more than two months and had no
terrorist connections.

The tipster said members of the group had talked about material called ''nuclear
oxide'' that would follow them to Boston. The implication was that the group was
plotting to detonate a radioactive ''dirty bomb.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 14, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Snakeheads That Bite And Hang On

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words


SEVERAL readers have written in recent days, saying they doubted a reference in
this space last week to a Chinese restaurant deliveryman who had paid a $60,000
smuggling fee to immigrate but only earned about $300 a week. ''I have one
question: How?'' wrote one reader, suggesting that the premise was an
impossibility.

No, as it happens, it is not at all impossible. The details about Ming Kuang
Chen, the illegal immigrant stuck in an elevator for more than three days after
making a takeout delivery, are secondhand -- from the police and Councilman John
C. Liu of Queens. But there is little reason to doubt them.

The international smuggling business, whose existence shocked New Yorkers in
1993 when the notorious Golden Venture ran aground off the Rockaways, is
thriving. People from China, Mexico and elsewhere pay huge fees to get to the
United States, then work for years, usually for less than the minimum wage, to
pay off their debts.

''When I was growing up, we called this the Gold Mountain, and people still want
to be here,'' explained Ray Ng, a police officer on patrol in Chinatown
yesterday. ''It's still the land of opportunity. They get here, it's a different
story. But somehow, they do it.''

Xu Chen, 25 (no relation to Mr. Chen), is trying to make a go of it in New York
right now. A former factory worker from Fujian Province, the origin of most
Chinese immigrants today, she came to New York three years ago and now works in
a Chinese restaurant. She says she would go back if she could. But she cannot.

''Nobody who wants to leave can, because they have to pay off the debt,''
explained Steven Wong, a Fujianese-American political leader in Chinatown.

Ms. Chen's story is harrowing. But it is familiar. In an interview yesterday,
she explained through a translator that when she could not find regular work in
China, she was open to the entreaties of a ''recruiter'' in her hometown. He
told her that for a fee, she could get to New York without immigration
credentials.

She would have to pay $62,000 to smugglers, called ''snakeheads.'' Today the
typical fee is $75,000. The smugglers collect a down payment -- usually $5,000
-- and try to do business in China to evade American immigration authorities,
who have smashed several smuggling gangs. Just last November in New York, 51
people were charged by federal authorities in connection with an international
smuggling enterprise that involved attempted murder and extortion.

To pay the smugglers, Ms. Chen said she borrowed from the Chinese underground,
which charges such usurious rates that her costs rose to $100,000. Sometimes
friends and relatives pay the smuggling fee, so the immigrant owes not the
snakeheads but people he knows -- relatives in the case of Mr. Chen, the
deliveryman, Councilman Liu said.

HOW do illegal immigrants enter the country? In several different ways. Ms. Chen
took a circuitous route to New York. She was flown to Haiti, where she boarded a
boat, which came ashore in Miami. Some immigrants fly to Mexico and cross the
border on foot, while some fly into American airports and rely on forged
documents.

A bus from Miami brought Ms. Chen to New York, where people known as enforcers
detained her in a ''safe house'' somewhere in the city. She said they beat her
to scare her, and gave her only one daily meal of rice until the snakeheads made
a cellphone call to report they had received the balance of their fee from the
loan sharks. Then Ms. Chen was released and connected with her relatives.

She said she earns about $2,300 a month working long days in the restaurant,
eats the restaurant's food and pays $300 a month to share two rooms with eight
others. Mr. Wong said that to keep costs down, as many as 18 men will share one
room -- nine sleeping in three triple-decker beds and another nine who work
outside of New York but visit regularly and stay in the empty beds when the
others are at work.

Typically, it takes a smuggled immigrant five years to pay off the debt, though
it can take longer, and there have been instances of violence for nonpayment of
debt. Many immigrants eventually settle comfortably in the United States in the
classic immigrant pattern. Some marry citizens, some prosper, and some do not.

Ms. Chen said she still owed $20,000 to the loan sharks and was making payments.
''If you don't pay, they make you do prostitute work,'' she explained. Asked how
she felt about her decision to immigrate, Ms. Chen answered with one word:
''Disappointed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Boy Asks for Stay Of Deportation, Citing Fear

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1120 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 7


Young Zheng's first offense was flying into the United States illegally as a
14-year-old boy with phony papers supplied by Chinese human smugglers known as
snakeheads.

But perhaps his biggest blunder, his lawyers say, was complying with immigration
rules after he was apprehended and released, rather than fleeing and working to
begin paying the $60,000 fee that his father in China had agreed to with the
smugglers. Instead, he went to school and became a top student.

He also had the misfortune, his lawyers say, of believing his Department of
Homeland Security control officers when they told him he could stop reporting
monthly and show up every three months instead. When he checked in three months
later, he was arrested and scheduled for deportation for failing to appear
earlier, they said.

Young, now 17 and confined in a youth facility here, is the center of a heated
court battle over government efforts to deport him as soon as Friday. If he is
returned to China, the youth and his lawyers say, he faces torture and death for
defying the smugglers. He also has no home, he says, because his father,
terrified of the smugglers, has disowned him.

Because he made a vain dash for freedom last March and smashed his head into a
wall to avoid deportation, his court papers say, the government is preparing to
sedate him to get him aboard the plane.

A Justice Department spokesman, Eric Holland, said he could not discuss any
aspect of the case, including how often Young had to report, because it was in
litigation. The government's legal briefs say that Young has already been
properly ruled eligible for deportation and that the finding should not be
overturned.

The Department of Homeland Security, opposing Young's application for amnesty
under the United Nations Torture Convention and his request for a stay of
removal, has argued in part that Young failed to present convincing proof that
he would be tortured by the Chinese government.

''At best,'' said Jeffrey T. Bubier, a lawyer in the case and assistant chief
counsel of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Philadelphia, ''he fears a 'wholly private' act of retribution, meted out by
smugglers who want money.''

Young's lawyers, John F. Sullivan III and Hannah Sibiski, who have taken on the
case pro bono for the firm of Fulbright & Jaworski, say there is little
distinction, arguing that the Chinese government and the police in the family's
native province, Fujian, are complicit in the smuggling. ''Young's father has
even received a visit from the Chinese police seeking payment of the $60,000 on
behalf of the snakeheads,'' the lawyers wrote in a brief filed on May 25 with
the Board of Immigration Appeals.

''Every once in a long while, a case comes along that truly cries out for
justice in a crowded judicial system and tugs at the heartstrings of us all,''
they said, adding: ''This is such a case.''

On Friday they unsuccessfully sought a stay of deportation for Young on habeas
corpus grounds in federal court in Houston. Because of the way the case began
after Young's arrival in New Jersey, it is before the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia. The court has said it would rule
by Young's scheduled deportation date of Friday.

Reached through his lawyers by telephone on Tuesday at the Southwest Key
facility in Houston, a private contractor for the government's Office of Refugee
Resettlement and its Division of Unaccompanied Children's Services, Young called
the smugglers ''very powerful,'' saying that ''they sent people to my family in
China'' and that they threatened the uncle he had been staying with in Ohio.
''My father and uncle told me not to come back,'' he said.

In an account that matched a sworn statement in his court case, Young said his
parents had been penalized for violating the one-child rule in China by having
him one year after his sister; a family could have a second child if the first
was a girl, but they had to wait four years. He said his mother was killed in a
car accident when he was about 8. His father remarried, and Young said his
stepmother sometimes beat him.

He said his father and an uncle in Akron, Ohio, arranged for smugglers to meet
him at the airport near his home in Fu Zhou. One gave him a passport and a green
card and taught him a few English words.

Landing at Newark Liberty International Airport in January 2003, he recalled,
''immigration asked me questions I did not understand.'' His papers were quickly
unmasked as bogus, and he was detained at the Berks County Youth Center in
Leesport, Pa., where he spent about a year before the facility was closed in a
scandal over child abuse. He was then moved to a center in Chicago for seven
months before being released into his uncle's custody with monthly reporting
requirements.

He earned a 4.0 grade-point average in high school, his teachers wrote the
courts, and arrived late only when he took the bus to report to the immigration
office.

Meanwhile, his uncle, a cook, said in a separate sworn statement that he began
getting calls from ''one of the snakeheads'' demanding payment of $60,000.
Finally, he said, he quit answering the phone.

In February, the uncle said, Young told him that he had been directed to report
only every three months.

But when Young showed up in April, Mr. Sullivan said in federal court on Friday,
''they handcuff him, they shackle him, they throw him on an airplane, they fly
him to Chicago to catch a connecting flight to Hong Kong.''

On the phone, Young said he broke free in the van. ''I just run two blocks in
the street,'' he recalled. Recaptured and taken to the airport, he said, ''I saw
the airplane in front of me, and I was so afraid I hit the wall.''

Mr. Sullivan said in court, ''he smashes his head against the wall three times
and knocks himself unconscious.'' That put off the deportation, which Mr.
Sullivan urged the court to stay further. But Judge Melinda Harmon said she
doubted that she had the authority to do so.

Howard Rose, an assistant United States attorney, said in arguing that the
decision should remain with the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, that
''this is a person who attempted to enter the United States by using a
fraudulent document.'' And when, Mr. Rose said, the government tried to execute
a removal order, ''he physically resists,'' describing the acts as felonies and
saying that ''in the Southern District of Texas we prosecute things like that.''

Young said that if he were allowed to remain in the country he would like to
become a biologist. ''If there's another opportunity, I would have my own
company, any kind,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

10 Are Charged With Smuggling Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 21


A group of girls and women from Honduras were kept in crowded apartments and
forced to dance at bars and drink with male customers to pay back thousands of
dollars to the people who smuggled them into the United States, the United
States attorney for New Jersey charged on Thursday.

At least 10 females, two as young as 14, were made to work as virtual slaves and
were beaten and threatened with deportation if they tried to escape, according
to a federal indictment filed on Thursday that charged eight women and two men
with taking part in a smuggling ring reaching from Hudson County to Honduras.

Some of the women and girls were raped while traveling here, according to the
indictment. At least three who became pregnant were forced to take drugs that
would cause an abortion, because the smugglers believed they would not be able
to earn as much money if they were pregnant.

''This was inhumane and sadistic treatment of young women who were kept as
virtual slaves,'' said Christopher J. Christie, the federal prosecutor. ''These
are among the most vile crimes I have seen in my time as U.S. attorney.''

The 10 people, several of whom were related, were accused of bringing the women
into the country and then forcing them to work up to seven nights a week at
three bars in Union City and Guttenberg, to pay back debts as high as $20,000.

One 21-year-old who was far along in a pregnancy was forced to take
abortion-inducing drugs, and gave birth to a daughter the next day, but the baby
died within hours, according to the indictment. A 14-year-old was beaten twice,
once with a belt. Some of the defendants also threatened to hurt the workers'
families back in Honduras if they did not pay back their smuggling debts,
according to the indictment.

Charges against the defendants included conspiracy to commit forced labor
offenses, alien smuggling and harboring illegal aliens, Mr. Christie said. The
offenses took place from May 2003 to January 2005.

Prosecutors said recruiters for the ring worked in villages near Olanchito,
Honduras, finding attractive women, mostly in their teens and early 20's, and
promising them legitimate jobs as waitresses in the United States. The women
left Honduras of their own volition, Mr. Christie said, and passed through
Houston.

''They were kept in conditions where they were intimidated and controlled, and
they were told not to trust law enforcement,'' said Deborah J. Gannett, an
assistant United States attorney. The women and girls are in an undisclosed
location, where they are receiving counseling, education and other social
services, Mr. Christie said. They and 20 other women arrested in a January
immigration raid at two apartments have been qualified for special visas that
will allow them to stay in this country, become naturalized citizens and invite
their families to join them as well, Mr. Christie said.

According to the indictment, Luisa Medrano, 50, of Cliffside Park, was the
ringleader; she owned and operated three bars and three apartments where the
women lived. She is a naturalized United States citizen who is from El Salvador.

John J. Fahy, who is representing Ms. Medrano, denied the charges in an
interview.

Also charged were seven Honduran natives, including three sisters: Noris Elvira
Rosales Martinez, 29, and Ana Luz Rosales Martinez, 37, both of Union City and
being held in the United States, and Nancy Rosales Martinez, 34, of Olanchito,
who is in custody in Honduras; the mother of the three sisters, Zenia Zunilda
Martinez, 56, and her sister, Lourdes Rosales Martinez, 33, both of Tejeras, who
are in custody in Honduras; and Jose Arnaldo Isaula-Meza, 23, of Sonaguera,
Honduras, and his sister, Elsa Consuelo Isaula-Meza, 44, of Houston, who are
still being sought. Jose Magana, 40, of El Salvador and Union City, and Rosalba
Ortiz, 34, of the Dominican Republic and Union City were charged and are in
custody in the United States.

Mr. Isaula-Meza was named the lead ''coyote.'' Prosecutors said he took the
women to the United States-Mexican border and raped some of them, including a
14-year-old.

If convicted, the defendants face fines of $250,000 and 5 to 20 years in prison.
The indictment also seeks the forfeiture of Ms. Medrano's clubs and apartment
buildings.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The owner of El Paisano in Union City, N.J., is accused of
making women and girls entertain male patrons. (Photo by Mike Derer/Associated
Press)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 6, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Side Order of Human Rights

BYLINE: By Eric Schlosser.

Eric Schlosser is the author of ''Fast Food Nation'' and ''Reefer Madness.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1276 words

DATELINE: Monterey, Calif.


AND now a word of good news from the world of fast food.

Last month, the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a group that represents farm
workers in southern Florida, announced that it was ending a four-year boycott of
Taco Bell. The most remarkable thing about the announcement was the reason
behind it: Taco Bell had acceded to all of the coalition's demands. At a time of
declining union membership, failed organizing drives and public apathy about
poverty, a group of immigrant tomato pickers had persuaded an enormous fast food
company -- Yum Brands, which in addition to Taco Bell owns KFC, Pizza Hut, A&W
All American Food Restaurants and Long John Silver's -- to increase the wages of
migrant workers and impose a tough code of conduct on Florida tomato suppliers.
''Human rights are universal,'' said Jonathan Blum, a senior vice president of
Yum, adding that under Taco Bell's new labor rules ''indentured servitude by
suppliers is strictly forbidden.''

The need for a corporate edict against slavery in the United States reveals just
how bad things have become for farm workers. But it also suggests that the fast
food companies now sitting atop America's food system can prevent the sort of
abuses that state and federal officials seem unwilling to address.

Migrant farm workers have long been the nation's poorest group of workers.
Although wages and working conditions greatly improved during the 1970's, thanks
to the efforts of Cesar Chavez and the United Farm Workers, the rise of illegal
immigration and anti-union sentiment later eroded those gains. In California,
where more than half of America's fruits and vegetables are grown (and mainly
picked by hand), the hourly wages of some farm workers adjusted for inflation
have fallen by more than 50 percent since 1980.

Today the majority of America's farm workers are illegal immigrants. They often
live in run-down trailers, sheds, garages and motels, where a dozen or so may
share a room. Their status as black market labor makes them fearful of being
deported, wary of union organizers and vulnerable to exploitation. The typical
migrant farm worker is a young Mexican male who earns less than $8,000 a year.

The working conditions in the fields of Florida are especially bad. According to
a recent study by the Urban Institute, perhaps 80 percent of the migrants in
Florida are illegal immigrants. They are usually employed by labor contractors,
who charge them for food, housing, transportation -- and, on occasion, smuggling
fees. These charges are often deducted from workers' paychecks, trapping
migrants in debt. Since 1996, six cases of involuntary servitude have resulted
in convictions in Florida; many others have probably gone undetected. In one of
these cases, hundreds of farm workers were held captive by labor contractors
based in La Belle and Immokalee, Fla., forced to work without pay and warned
that their tongues would be cut off if they tried to escape. The Florida
legislature has done little to help migrants. Agriculture is the state's
second-largest industry, after tourism, and many legislators have close ties
with leading growers.

The Coalition of Immokalee Workers is one of the few organizations willing to
fight for migrant workers in Florida. Founded in 1996 and based in the town of
Immokalee, amid lush tomato fields and citrus groves, the group helped the
United States Justice Department gain convictions in five of the six slavery
cases. During the late 1990's members of the coalition learned that Taco Bell
was a major purchaser of tomatoes grown in Immokalee, where the wages of
migrants (adjusted for inflation) had fallen by as much as 60 percent during the
previous two decades. The coalition asked the fast food chain to pressure its
Florida suppliers, seeking a wage increase and guarantees that human rights
would be respected. When Taco Bell failed to respond, the coalition started a
nationwide boycott in April 2001, focusing its efforts at high schools and
college campuses. ''Boot the Bell!'' was the rallying cry, as students tried to
close Taco Bells and block the opening of new ones.

At first Taco Bell tried to ignore the protests and to deny responsibility for
the behavior of its suppliers. ''We don't believe it's our place to get involved
in another company's labor dispute,'' Jonathan Blum, the Yum Brands executive,
said in an interview with The New Yorker. Asked about the possible link between
slavery in Florida and Taco Bell's food, Mr. Blum replied, ''It's heinous, but I
don't think it has anything to do with us.'' The company's attitude gradually
changed as the boycott gained support not only from students, but also from the
United Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), the National Council
of Churches, the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Center for Human Rights and former
President Jimmy Carter, among others. (Disclosure: I supported the boycott, too,
and spoke out on behalf of the coalition.)

With coalition members conducting hunger strikes and staging demonstrations in
front of Taco Bell headquarters in Irvine, Calif., it seemed increasingly unwise
for the nation's leading purveyor of Mexican food to be publicly linked with the
exploitation of poor Mexicans. And the coalition's wage demand was by no means
outrageous. It was asking for a pay raise of one penny for every pound of
tomatoes picked -- the first major wage increase in Immokalee since the late
1970's.

As part of the agreement with the Coalition of Immokalee Workers last month,
Taco Bell vowed to help ''improve working and pay conditions for farm workers in
the Florida tomato fields.'' It promised to give the penny per pound increase to
its Florida suppliers, so that migrant wages could be raised by that amount. It
invited the coalition to monitor the new labor policies. And it said it would
reward those suppliers that treat farm workers well. The penny-per-pound
supplement will nearly double the wages of migrants picking tomatoes for Taco
Bell. And though there is some debate about the final cost to Yum Brands, the
figure will most likely be a few hundred thousand dollars a year -- not a huge
sum for a fast food company with annual sales of about $9 billion worldwide.

Over the past few years the fast food industry has introduced healthier foods in
response to consumer demands. It has adopted tough animal welfare policies in
the wake of criticism from animal rights activists. The Taco Bell agreement
demonstrates, for the first time, an industry commitment to farm workers' rights
in the United States. Only a small number of tomato pickers will enjoy a wage
increase as a result of the Taco Bell deal, but it's a step on the right path.

And what's the next step? Although farmers are often demonized in reports about
migrant labor, it's important to point out that they are under tremendous
pressure from the leading fast food chains to reduce costs. Food-service
companies now purchase the majority of fresh produce in the United States -- and
farmers often believe that cutting wages is necessary to cut prices for their
largest customers. Meaningful change, therefore, will have to come from the top.

McDonald's seems an obvious target for the next boycott. It is one of the
nation's leading purchasers of lettuce, tomatoes, apples and pickled cucumbers.
It is far and away the industry giant. The failure of government to protect the
weakest and most impoverished workers in the United States has left the job to
corporations and consumers. Taco Bell deserves credit for acknowledging its
responsibility on this issue. Now McDonald's, Burger King, Wendy's and Yum's
other brands need to do the same.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ken Orvidas)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Few Visas, Fewer Resort Workers

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words


IT usually takes a crew of six for the Nantucket Bake Shop, an old-style bakery
on Orange Street, to make 700 loaves of bread a day. But on a recent afternoon,
there was no one mixing the flour, no one kneading the dough and no one tending
the oven. In fact, the oven wasn't on.

''We're extremely understaffed,'' said Jay Detmer, the owner. ''Our regular
bakers from Jamaica were denied visas.''

Like many seasonal resort areas across the country, Nantucket increasingly
depends on foreign workers to wash its dishes, bag its groceries and fill other
jobs once held by American teenagers and students.

But this year, a guest-worker shortage could cripple the season there, and at
many other resorts. In Colorado, the Broadmoor Hotel in Colorado Springs was
denied all 250 visas it customarily receives from the federal government for
housekeepers, landscapers and masseurs. In Michigan, the Yankee Rebel Tavern on
Mackinac Island is trying to make do without its usual staff of 18 dishwashers
from Jamaica. And in Florida, Amelia Island Plantation has no one to help
manicure its golf links.

Over the last decade, resorts have come to rely on foreign workers under a visa
program known as H-2B, intended to help seasonal businesses fill job vacancies.
But not this year. As demand for foreign workers grew, the 66,000 visas
authorized each year were used up by Jan. 3. There was an H-2B shortfall last
year, when the visas were used up in March. But this year, because the cap was
reached much earlier, the shortfall is far more acute.

The current labor crunch is creating particular anxiety in New England, where
the tourist season is compressed between Memorial Day and Labor Day. Under the
program, employers can apply for the visas only within 120 days of the time when
the workers are needed. Since the federal fiscal year begins in October, that
meant that winter destinations like Aspen and Palm Beach got the first chance
and snapped up all 66,000 spots. By the time summer resorts emerged from
hibernation, no visas were left.

''Virtually all summer resorts were prevented from getting their H-2B workers,''
said Shawn McBurney, vice president for governmental affairs of the American
Hotel and Lodging Association, a trade group based in Washington. ''Hotels might
have to cancel events or close part of their properties.''

Islands like Nantucket have it worse. Nantucket's mainland neighbor, Cape Cod,
is also struggling with a labor crunch, and the ferry ride to Nantucket, which
can take as long as two hours, makes it impractical for workers from surrounding
areas to commute.

''We place ads in the local papers every year, and I don't recall getting a
single response,'' said Paula Leary, the administrator of the Nantucket Regional
Transit Authority, which operates a summer shuttle service. Nearly all of its 35
bus drivers are now foreigners, mostly from Bulgaria.

For the second year in a row, the labor shortage could mean long waits at
restaurants, shorter menus, untidy hotel rooms, reduced store hours and poor
service.

The shortage also means fewer foreign faces. The guest-worker program, created
in 1990, had the unintended effect of transforming formerly apple-pie resorts
into virtual Epcot Centers of languages and cultures. On the Jersey Shore, local
teenagers have been replaced over the years by fresh-faced students from
Bulgaria, Poland and Lithuania. In Aspen, chair-lift operators have names like
Bjorn, Gisela and Pavel. And in Hilton Head, S.C., Southern twang has clashed
with Jamaican patois and Dominican Spanglish.

The local employee pools began shrinking long before resorts dipped into foreign
labor.

Time was, summer resorts could rely on a glut of college students and high
school teenagers to fill in as store clerks, cashiers and other low-paid
workers. During the last 15 years, however, fewer American students have been
venturing into the summer workforce. The Bureau of Labor Statistics said that 67
percent of American 16- to 24-year-olds had summer jobs last year, compared with
a high of 78 percent in 1989. Last year's figure was the lowest percentage since
1966.

And those venturing into the workplace are looking for resume-building
positions. About 82 percent of college seniors now list internships at law
firms, Wall Street corporations and nonprofits on their resumes, compared with
just 3 percent in 1980, according to Vault, a career research firm in New York.

''They don't want to sling pizzas or make cheese steaks,'' said John Mosca, the
nightclub manager at Jenkinson's Boardwalk in Point Pleasant Beach, N.J. Of the
100 workers he hired this summer, 20 are from the Czech Republic, and only a
dozen are American collegians. ''Unless they're on scholarship, they want
everything handed to them on a silver platter.''

Another factor keeping American students out of the seasonal workforce is the
expanding academic calendar. Many college students now return to classes in
August.

Resorts, meanwhile, have lengthened their season. ''We begin in May and end in
October,'' said Patti Ann Moskwa, a bar owner on Mackinac Island. ''We can't
fill those positions with students.''

H-2B workers, on the other hand, can stay up to 12 months and sometimes longer.
''I'm here from April to December,'' said Carol Morris, a 39-year-old Jamaican
who left behind two children to spend her ninth season on Nantucket. She makes
about $400 a week cooking and bagging groceries. But opponents of the H-2B
program say workers like Ms. Morris illustrate the real reason why college
students have vanished: employers want cheaper labor. Many jobs pay $8 to $12 an
hour, with few benefits besides dorm-style housing and a uniform.

EMPLOYERS, however, counter that Americans don't want these jobs, especially
since they are temporary. Moreover, they note, the law requires that they
advertise the jobs locally and pay competitive wages. And they point to the visa
figures as proof of the enormous demand.

The number of H-2B visas went from less than 13,000 in 1996 to more than 66,000
in 2004, prompting the Citizenship and Immigration Services, an arm of the
Department of Homeland Security, to prohibit new applications for the first time
in the program's 14-year history.

With the 2005 season looking ominous, resort operators and trade groups lobbied
Congress to raise the cap. Instead, they got a temporary fix. The so-called Save
Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, which was signed by President Bush on May
11, allows employers to bring back workers from the previous three summers
without violating the cap. It also divides the visas between the summer and
winter seasons.

But the measure is good only for two years, and many summer employers say it is
too little, too late. By the time the new paperwork is processed, which is
expected to take until July, the season will already be in full swing.

''It's not worth it for me,'' said Magee Detmer, the manager at the Nantucket
Bake Shop, which had applied for six bakers from Jamaica and received none.
''I'm not paying the fees to file all over again. Besides, all my former workers
made other arrangements.''

To replace the bakers, Ms. Detmer taped a ''Help Wanted'' sign in the window.
Dozens have inquired, but only one person has been hired.

Others have taken more active steps. The Chippewa Hotel on Mackinac Island
dispatched recruiters to Colorado ski resorts and used an option to transfer
about 25 wintertime workers with H-2B visas to summertime jobs at the hotel. Its
neighbor, the Grand Hotel, opened on March 1, its earliest kickoff, in order to
get foreign workers, including a large contingent of waiters from Jamaica.

Many restaurants have slashed their menus and reduced the number of seats. And
inns, resorts or stores that consider hiring illegal immigrants risk fines and
suspensions.

But not everyone has given up on college students. ''We were able to get
students this year -- from Singapore and Thailand,'' said Jessica Drennan, the
human resources manager at Jenkinson's Boardwalk, which employs 1,200 during the
summer. About 30 of those students worked under a student-exchange visa known as
a J-1.

Unlike Americans or Eastern Europeans, she said, the Asian students were able to
start work in May. ''And their work ethic is a bit better,'' Ms. Drennan added.
''American college students take work for granted. They don't value the
experience as much as international students do.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: DO IT YOURSELF -- Melissa Mann, manager of a Nantucket inn,
tidies a room. A shortage of visas has kept seasonal foreign workers away.
(Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 VISA DEADLINE -- The Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island opened early this year.
(Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. F8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2005 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant-Smuggling Case Against Driver Goes to Jury

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 18


With a final defense argument of racial discrimination, the case of Tyrone M.
Williams, the first person facing possible execution for human-smuggling deaths,
was handed to a federal jury here Friday.

Jury deliberations start Monday in the trial of Mr. Williams, 34, a truck driver
from Jamaica who was living in Schenectady, N.Y. He faces 58 charges of
conspiracy and harboring and transporting at least 74 illegal immigrants from
Mexico and Central America in a botched scheme that ended on May 14, 2003, in
Victoria, Tex., with 19 of the passengers dead of suffocation, heat and thirst.

If the jury of seven women and five men finds Mr. Williams guilty of the most
serious counts, the jurors would then be asked to rule on his punishment,
whether life imprisonment or death.

None of the other 13 defendants in the case face execution; some ringleaders
have been allowed to plead guilty to charges carrying a maximum of life
imprisonment. Capital punishment experts say no one before has faced death under
the 10-year-old federal statute on human smuggling.

Apart from a woman who pleaded guilty to a minor charge, Mr. Williams is the
case's only black defendant. His defense contends that he was singled out for
the death penalty.

In his closing arguments, the chief prosecutor, Daniel C. Rodriguez, summed up
the often harrowing testimony of 21 survivors as well as co-conspirators who
pleaded guilty and agreed to testify in hopes of leniency at sentencing. Mr.
Rodriguez, an assistant United States attorney, accused Mr. Williams of
''deliberate blindness'' during the loading of his passengers and their later
pleas for help. Mr. Williams, he said, kept the air conditioning in his
refrigerated trailer off so he could claim at a Border Patrol checkpoint to be
traveling empty.

Mr. Rodriguez said of the victims: ''Theirs was a slow, excruciating and
agonizing death.''

Mr. Williams's lawyer, Craig Washington, presented just a single defense
witness: Jill Hasling, a Houston meteorologist who testified that outside
temperatures were mostly in the 70's and never exceeded 80 degrees in South
Texas the night of the fatal ride.

Mr. Washington, in his summation, suggested that Mr. Williams was singled out
for his race, an argument that has been rejected by appeals courts up to the
United States Supreme Court.

Mr. Washington, who is also black, told the jury that as a young man working in
an oil refinery he was often dispatched to retrieve work tools. When he asked
why, Mr. Washington recalled, he was told, ''because you're easier to see.''

Pointing to Mr. Williams, the lawyer asked: ''Why him? Because he's easy to
see.''

''They're all guilty one way or another,'' Mr. Washington said of the case's
defendants, ''but this is the only one facing the death penalty.'' The remark
drew an objection from Mr. Rodriguez, which was sustained by Judge Vanessa D.
Gilmore of District Court, that punishment was not at issue at this point in the
trial.

''He is guilty of transporting but he's not responsible,'' Mr. Washington also
said of Mr. Williams, arguing that organizers of the smuggling scheme who were
paid by the head had the incentive to overload the truck. Mr. Williams was paid
a flat fee of $7,500.

Mr. Washington also spent time attacking the credibility of a government
witness, Fatima Holloway, who rode in the truck's cab with Mr. Williams to
deliver a $15,000 drug payment and who, after pleading guilty to lesser charges,
testified that Mr. Williams ignored his passengers' desperate banging for help.

Mr. Rodriguez, in his closing rebuttal, denied that race was a factor. ''Your
job is to seek the truth regardless of race, religion or anything unrelated to
this case,'' he told the jury, three of whose members are black.

After the case went to the jury, Mr. Williams's mother, Dorothy Williams, and
his sister, Coretta Williams, spoke briefly to reporters.

''Scared,'' said Mrs. Williams, of her feelings about the fate of her oldest
son, the third of her five children. ''And I'm praying to God for a miracle to
work.''

Mrs. Williams said her son had three children, a son, 9; a daughter, 7; and an
18-month-old son whom he had never held.

Coretta Williams said: ''No one sees him as the person he is.'' She said, ''my
brother is far from evil'' and ''he's not heartless.''

Coretta Williams said the family believed race was a factor in the capital
prosecution.

''He's an easy target,'' she said. ''They probably thought he wouldn't put up a
fight.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2005



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the
smuggling trial of Tyrone M. Williams, whose lawyers say he was singled out for
possible execution because he is black, referred incorrectly in some copies to
the one other black person charged in the case. That defendant is a woman.



PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 2, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Agents Said to Dismantle a Korean Sex Ring

BYLINE: By CAROLYN MARSHALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 1


Federal agents raided scores of brothels and businesses and arrested more than
two dozen people here in the dismantling of an international sex trafficking and
human smuggling ring that lured Korean women to the United States and forced
them to work as captive prostitutes, the authorities said on Friday.

The crackdown on human smuggling was set in motion late on Thursday, when about
400 federal and state law enforcement officials searched 50 brothels and other
businesses in San Francisco and the Bay Area, stemming from the indictment of 29
men who were subsequently charged with sex trafficking, money laundering and
harboring illegal aliens. The men are also charged with conspiracy to transport
women from South Korea and force them to work as prostitutes, said the United
States attorney, Kevin V. Ryan.

The arrests here, along with the arrests of 18 people in Los Angeles in a
related case, stem from a nine-month investigation by federal, state and local
law enforcement agents looking into a human smuggling and sex trafficking ring
that the authorities said may be one of the largest and most sophisticated ever.

''This investigation is aimed at stopping the horrific, demeaning and oftentimes
brutal practice of smuggling and trafficking of human beings,'' Mr. Ryan said at
a law enforcement press conference on Friday.

During the raids in San Francisco on Thursday, federal agents found about 100
Korean women, who have been taken to an undisclosed nondetention facility to
receive medical care and participate in interviews. The agents also seized at
least $2 million in cash and several A.T.M.'s and shuttered about a dozen
massage parlor brothels.

In a separate but related investigation, the authorities also charged 23 people
in Los Angeles.

In Los Angeles 46 women were escorted out of brothels on Thursday and to safety,
the authorities said. The authorities said they believed that the San Francisco
and Los Angeles operations, although separate businesses, worked in tandem to
transport the women.

The cases, investigated by numerous government agencies including the F.B.I.,
the Internal Revenue Service, immigration and customs enforcement agencies, and
the local police, were discussed at separate press conferences on Friday, one
here and one in Los Angeles.

Some of the 29 men charged in San Francisco appeared in federal court on Friday.
The authorities said they did not yet know whether the defendants are Korean,
but all but one man are of Asian descent. The authorities singled out two people
they said were major players in the trafficking scheme, Young Joon Yang, 37, and
Sung Yong Kim, 39, each charged with two counts of sex trafficking, along with
other charges including fraud and coercion.

The indictment in San Francisco said that from September 2001 to October 2004
the defendants ''recruited and enticed female Korean nationals to illegally
enter the United States.'' The women, in their 20's, were held captive and
forced to work as prostitutes.

The indictment also said that between Feb. 22 and June 23, 2005, the defendants
operated a taxi company and a travel agency, both used to transport the women.
The taxi company often transported women from brothel to brothel, and in some
cases the cabs were used to move women from San Francisco to Los Angeles, an
F.B.I. spokeswoman said. The travel agency made international and interstate
transport possible. The women were typically flown from an undisclosed location
in South Korea to Canada and then to San Francisco.

Brad Schlozman, acting assistant attorney general for the Civil Rights Division
of the Justice Department, called the operation ''morally repugnant and a truly
evil crime'' and ''a modern-day form of slavery.''

At the press briefing in Los Angeles on Friday, the United States attorney,
Debra Wong Yang, said that the brothels were concealed by supposedly legitimate
massage parlors and that the women were managed by what she called an
underground Korean taxi service.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 28, 2005 Sunday
                                 Early Edition

Governors Say They Will Raze Border Town Used by Smugglers

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: LAS CRUCES, N.M., Aug. 27


The governors of New Mexico and its southern neighbor, the Mexican state
Chihuahua, agreed Friday to bulldoze or board up buildings in a semi-abandoned
town just inside Mexico that is a haven for would-be immigrants and smugglers.

Gov. Bill Richardson and Gov. Jose Reyes Baeza of Chihuahua also said they hoped
to establish a police presence to end lawlessness in the border town, Las
Chepas, which has been used as a staging ground for migrants and drug and human
smugglers.

It was the governors' first meeting since Mr. Richardson, citing growing
violence, declared a state of emergency in the New Mexico border region earlier
this month.

Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona declared a similar emergency in her state.

Las Chepas is home to a dozen full-time residents. A Border Patrol agent, Rick
Moody, said agents monitored the area with a tower-mounted camera and watched as
a daily caravan of old school buses ferried people along a dusty washboard road
into the town.

When the migrants leave, they often are attacked by ''border bandits,'' Mr.
Moody said.

''They tell them to just keep walking north and don't look back,'' Mr. Moody
said. ''We've tried to apprehend some of these bandits.''

But there are too many places to hide and too few roads, he added.

''It's a lawless area,'' Mr. Moody said.

Leopaldo Castillo Rodriguez, 66, who has lived in Las Chepas for 22 years, said
he did not plan to leave. He said he did not understand why Mr. Richardson would
want to demolish the town.

''It would be the same if it wasn't here,'' he said of the situation this week.

Others in the town said they were upset that they were hearing of Mr.
Richardson's plans from reporters and not their own government.

''People here don't know what's going on,'' Francisco Apalaca Ruiz said.

Espifanrio Ruiz, who runs one of the town's three stores, acknowledged that
hordes of migrants come through the town, but said the area was not much of a
draw.

''There are no hotels here,'' Mr. Ruiz said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 20, 2004 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Lost in the Din: Security vs. the Dream

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words


Passers-by glanced curiously at the few dozen young people rallying on the
sidewalk outside the Interfaith Center of New York on Thursday, immigrant
students wearing bright orange stickers saying ''Ask Me Why I'm Fasting.'' But
no one stopped to ask, and as student speakers addressed a handful of reporters,
their words were often muffled by the roar of midday traffic in Midtown.

It was Day 2 of a five-day fast that organizers called a National Week of Action
for Immigrants' Rights. There were protests in 70 cities around the country. But
even in New York, where immigrant concerns have historically been the bread and
butter of local politics, it was hard to draw attention to issues that seem, for
many, to be stuck on the back burner this election year.

Many advocates cited a disconnect between convention rhetoric that prominently
celebrated immigrant opportunity in America, and a darkening reality since Sept.
11, 2001. Time is also running out on several immigration bills languishing in
Congress, including the most modest bipartisan measure, known as the Dream Act,
which would give access to college aid to high-achieving teenagers in families
of illegal immigrants.

Yet some also see a disconnect between the expansive legislative goals of
national immigration organizations, which are busy lobbying for pathways to
legal residency and citizenship, and a grass-roots panic over day-to-day
shortcuts to criminalization: administrative policies and computer crackdowns
that lead to the loss of driver's licenses, immigration arrests at traffic
stops, and the detention and deportation of longtime residents who leave their
children, United States citizens, behind.

The director of the New York Immigration Coalition, Margaret McHugh, said her
trips to Washington for immigration meetings were like trips to another world.

''Down there, it's about what are the components of a good legalization bill
going to be,'' she said. ''And here we're frantic, because every day we're
seeing the de-legalization and the criminalization of so many immigrants.''

Scores of community organizations participated in the week of vigils and
symbolic hunger strikes, which are to culminate locally today with a community
hearing in Harlem, and tomorrow in Washington with a day of lobbying. Among the
most active participants are students like 18-year-old Alejandra, who would not
give her last name for fear of deportation. Alejandra was 7 when her mother
brought her to New York from their native Colombia, and she was valedictorian of
her high school class in Queens in June, but she could not apply for government
financial aid for college.

''These children are de facto Americans,'' contended Partha Banerjee, director
of New Immigrant Community Empowerment, a group taking part in the sidewalk
rallies. ''But because of all the 9/11 problems, their hopes are being dashed on
a daily basis.''

Despite public enthusiasm for the speeches of Barack Obama and Arnold
Schwarzenegger, it is a generation coming of age in a climate of growing
hostility to immigration, say those who have supported amnesty programs for
illegal immigrants.

In the last three years, they say, economic insecurity has converged with
national security concerns -- and a new influx of immigrants -- to revive the
immigration backlash of the early 1990's.

''At one level,'' said Muzaffar A. Chishti, a senior policy analyst at the
Migration Policy Institute, ''everyone wants to appease immigrants -- mainstream
Republicans and mainstream Democrats -- because they're seen as a very important
voting bloc.

''But they don't want to do too much toward moving the ball forward, because
they run into this problem of the rest of the country, the feeling of insecurity
both on economic grounds and on security grounds,'' he said.

As the specter of job loss to foreigners angers parts of the Democratic base,
immigration advocacy, too, may rely on symbols to stand in for substance. The
National Week of Action, for example, was billed as the first anniversary of the
Immigrant Workers Freedom Ride, modeled after the Freedom Rides for civil rights
in the 1960's. But, Mr. Chishti said, black Democratic leaders acknowledge --
only privately -- that many of their native-born black constituents are
increasingly resentful about illegal immigration.

Few leaders are discussing the hard issues that emerged from a study issued in
July by the Center for Labor Studies at Northeastern University in Boston, which
found that recently arrived immigrants accounted for all the employment growth
in the United States since 2001. With little net job growth, employment of new
immigrants, mostly from Mexico and Latin America, appears to be displacing some
established immigrants and native-born workers, especially black men in central
cities, the study's author, the economist Andrew Sum, concluded.

Even where there is political common ground, as on issues involving the police,
local officials may not be in a position to call the shots. In a rally on the
steps of City Hall on Friday, two members of the City Council and several
immigrant organizations complained about Attorney General John Ashcroft's
decision in 2002 to load thousands of civil immigration records into the
national crime database, which the F.B.I. uses to notify law enforcement
agencies about people wanted for crimes.

This, said the council members and advocates, had subverted Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg's Executive Order 41, which, in 2003, promised that no immigrant would
be arrested by the police for illegal status alone.

By late last year, Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for United States Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, reported that 317 noncitizens with immigration
violations had been arrested in New York by the police using routine computer
checks, out of a total of 5,092 nationwide.

Federal officials said adding immigration records to the database strengthened
homeland security.

But several advocacy groups have challenged that reasoning. The National Council
of La Raza, the New York Immigration Coalition, the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, the Latin American Workers Project and Unite,
joined in 2003 in a class action lawsuit against the use of the criminal
database for immigrant violations.

''The federal government is subverting the express will of the residents and
mayor of New York,'' Monica Tarazi, the executive director of the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination League, contended at the City Hall rally.

One of the pending immigration bills that the national week of rallies was meant
to oppose would require local police to enforce federal immigration laws. The
police in New York and several other large cities say that would undermine local
crime-fighting by making immigrants even more fearful of reporting crimes or
helping an investigation. Supporters of the measure, sponsored by United States
Representative Charles Norwood, Republican of Georgia, say that it is the only
serious way to crack down on illegal immigration.

''Security has become so central to any position on immigration that unless you
can frame your argument on security grounds, it doesn't have legs,'' Mr. Chishti
said.

In that context, even a measure like the Dream Act, which highlights the most
appealing cases, can have trouble gaining traction. Though the Democratic
presidential nominee, John Kerry, has endorsed the bill, Democrats in Congress
are doing little to push it to a vote, advocates and critics agree.

''It's really just amnesty du jour,'' said Mark Krikorian, director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which supports more restrictive immigration.
''And it doesn't matter because it's not going to pass anyway.''

That leaves the future uncertain for young people like those at the rally on
Thursday. ''Every day I see students, bright students, who drop out of college
because they can't get a loan, because of their immigration status,'' Mr.
Banerjee said. ''What is going to happen to all these young kids, hoping that
something is going to fall from the sky?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2004



CORRECTION: A news analysis article on Monday about nationwide protests by
immigrants against the hostility they perceive in an age of security concerns
misstated the name of the organization represented by Monica Tarazi, who spoke
at a City Hall rally in New York, and misstated her title. It is the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, not League; she is the New York
director, not the executive director.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Chan Hong, 3, of Queens, with his mother and other protesters
at the Interfaith Center of New York on Saturday during the groups five-day fast
for improved immigrants rights. Demonstrations were held in 70 cities. (Photo by
Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. B8)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Fight to Strip Bill Of Its Immigration Measures

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7


Democrats and a handful of Republicans in the House scrambled on Thursday to try
to strip a series of bitterly contested immigration provisions from legislation
intended to reorganize the nation's intelligence services in the aftermath of
the Sept. 11 attacks.

The provisions -- which were not endorsed by the independent commission that
investigated the attacks -- would make it harder for migrants to gain political
asylum, would expand speedy deportations without judicial review and would allow
criminals and suspected terrorists to be sent back to countries that condone
torture. Supporters of the provisions said they would make it harder for
suspected terrorists to abuse the immigration system.

But Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, criticized the
measures as ''unnecessary and excessive'' and said he supported two amendments
proposed by Representative Christopher H. Smith, Republican of New Jersey. The
amendments would remove the provisions making it harder for asylum seekers to
prove their claims and expanding speedy deportations.

House Democrats and immigrant advocacy groups also lent their support to Mr.
Smith and to Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, who
proposed an intelligence bill similar to the one passed by the Senate on
Wednesday, which did not include the tough immigration provisions. They said the
House legislation would unnecessarily alienate immigrant communities and
threaten immigrants fleeing persecution while doing little to protect the
country from terrorism.

Last week, members of the Sept. 11 commission also called on the House
Republican leadership to jettison some of the provisions tacked onto the
legislation, saying such add-ons threatened its enactment. On Wednesday, the two
chairmen of the commission endorsed the legislation passed by the Senate.

''I don't think we should be legislating immigration policy in the context of
the terrorism legislation,'' Mr. Diaz-Balart said in an interview. ''If these
amendments pass, this bill will have been stripped of negative parts. Then the
bill will be a very good, very solid antiterrorism bill.''

But other Republicans argued that concerns about the tough immigration
provisions could be addressed without eliminating the measures, which they said
were critical to ensuring that suspected terrorists cannot slip into the country
and stay.

Representative John Hostettler, Republican of Indiana, proposed an amendment to
the provision that would allow speedy deportation without judicial review of
immigrants in the United States for less than five years. The provision as
written would allow those immigrants to apply for asylum only if they have been
in the country for a year or less.

Current law allows officials to speedily deport illegal immigrants without
judicial review if they have been here less than two years and grants exceptions
to the rule that requires immigrants to seek asylum within their first year in
the United States. Mr. Hostettler would lift the one-year bar on seeking asylum.

Mr. Hostettler also proposed a change in the provision that would allow
criminals and suspected terrorists to be deported to countries that condone
torture, a measure White House officials said would violate international law.
Under his proposal, the Department of Homeland Security could detain such
immigrants.

He also suggested a change to the measure that would make it harder for people
to prove they had grounds to seek asylum. His proposal would increase the burden
solely on asylum seekers who are accused of being terrorists by their home
governments. Mr. Diaz-Balart warned that such a law could threaten dissidents
fleeing repressive regimes.

''This compromise meets the concerns but it also maintains public safety,'' Mr.
Hostettler said. ''While allowing for legal immigration to take place, we don't
want an open door to bad people.''

Mr. Hostettler acknowledged that the Sept. 11 commission had not recommended
such changes in its final report, but he pointed to a report by the commission's
staff that said ''abuse of the immigration system and a lack of immigration
enforcement were unwittingly working together to support terrorist activity.''

He said the immigration provision would primarily affect criminals and suspected
terrorists.

Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of California, disagreed, saying many
law-abiding immigrants would be harmed.

''This isn't about terrorism and it isn't about 9/11,'' said Mr. Berman, who
argued that Republicans who supported stricter immigration laws were using the
intelligence bill to push a public policy agenda.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 29, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mother, a Child, a Deportation

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 174 words



To the Editor:

''A Mother Deported and a Child Left Behind'' explains how the deportation of
parents has a devastating impact on their United States citizen children. The
situation will be even worse if House negotiators succeed in forcing their
immigration proposals into the Senate intelligence reform bill.

Under current law, an immigrant facing deportation can obtain a stay from a
court if the immigrant presents a serious legal issue in court. If these
immigrants prevail in their cases, their children are protected from the
devastating consequences of separation from their parents while the court
decides the case. But if House negotiators prevail, courts will not be allowed
to make a preliminary judgment about whether the case presents serious legal
issues and will be barred from even hearing many serious cases.

If only for the children, provisions that destroy American families should be
stricken from any intelligence reform bill.

Nancy Morawetz
New York, Nov. 24, 2004

The writer is a professor at New York University School of Law.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 15, 2004 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

To Spend $5.6 Billion Wisely, Heed Those Who Actually Teach

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman.

E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1052 words


THERE are more than a thousand public schools in New York City, strewn like the
islands of an archipelago from Far Rockaway to TriBeCa to Co-op City, and the
steep red brick building just off Fordham Road in the Bronx could represent many
of them. Middle School 45 was built in 1911, barely a decade after the
consolidation of modern New York and its Board of Education, and it was designed
by C.B.J. Snyder, the signature architect of public schools in the city.

M.S. 45 has always been a school for immigrants and the children of immigrants
-- Jews and Italians for its first half-century, Mexicans and Dominicans and
Albanians more recently, with a Nigerian or Pakistani fresh from Kennedy Airport
likely to materialize at the registration counter on any given day. It is a
school of the poor and near-poor, with more than 90 percent of its pupils
eligible for a subsidized school lunch.

And, with per-student spending of $9,200, less than three-quarters of the
average statewide, M.S. 45 typifies the financial plight of public schools in
New York. That disparity was the subject of the decade-long suit brought in
State Supreme Court by the Campaign for Fiscal Equity against the State of New
York, a case that moved toward resolution last month with the recommendation by
a court-appointed panel to increase aid to city schools by $5.6 billion a year,
or 43 percent above the current figure.

So the voices of people at M.S. 45 ought to be heard and heeded in the
discussion of how to spend that money.

Yet already, in the two weeks since the financing recommendation was handed
down, one can sense exactly such voices -- the voices of teachers and
administrators and parents -- being muffled, drowned out, ignored.

One hears the argument between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E.
Pataki over how much of the $5.6 billion the city will or won't pay. One hears
the predictable complaints from conservatives that money does not solve
problems, except presumably money in the form of tax cuts. One hears the
proposal from Chancellor Joel I. Klein, particularly its emphasis on expanding
early-childhood education and reducing class sizes in the lowest few grades.

Meanwhile, at M.S. 45, Tom Wilson imagines having a fellow teacher assigned to
his math classes, where he scrambles from table to table, trying to explain
algebraic expression to 31 pupils. Linda Kelly and Adina Rosenbaum, the only
guidance counselors for 1,500 students, envision another counselor to help
navigate 500 eighth graders a year through the byzantine process of applying for
high school admission.

Ana Vasquez, the parent coordinator, thinks about giving each child double
textbooks, so one set could always be at home, and holding training sessions to
teach parents how to help their children with homework, and having every school
notice translated into Spanish.

Walk through the school, from room to room, and the suggestions continue. Money
for the repair and updating of computers. Money for field trips so teachers
won't have to run bake sales to afford them. Money for a photocopy machine on
each floor of the five-story building. Money for each child to have a dictionary
and a thesaurus. Money to hire an art teacher.

Even with its low-income and immigrant students, even operating at 120 percent
of capacity, M.S. 45 has managed to exceed citywide averages on math and
language arts tests. It has fallen short in a few categories of required
''average yearly progress'' under the No Child Left Behind law, not because of
students' scores but because of the level of participation by disabled and
bilingual students on standardized tests. Still, staff member after staff member
speaks of the identical predicament: too many needs, too little time.

''You're working over an equation with one student, and there are 30 other hands
in the air,'' said Mr. Wilson, the math teacher. Ms. Rosenbaum, a guidance
counselor, said: ''I get here early and I bring work home every night, and I
still can't see everyone. I feel terrible giving a kid a hall pass to see me the
next day when they're crying right now.''

Joseph Solanto, the principal at M.S. 45, grew up in the surrounding Belmont
neighborhood and has spent 40 years as a teacher and administrator in the
school. One morning in church, he noticed that the day's psalm, No. 96, included
a verse about how God ''governs the peoples with equity.''

''A school like ours,'' Mr. Solanto said, putting the biblical message in his
own terms, ''should be able to meet the need of any child who comes through the
door.''

Taken together, the voices of M.S. 45 are the voices of experience and common
sense, commodities appreciated all too little in public education, with its
mania for the latest panacea. In their wisdom and almost heartbreaking modesty,
these voices bring to mind the story by Sholom Aleichem in which a poor man
dies, goes to heaven, and is asked by God what it is he wants, anything in the
world. The man asks for a warm roll.

THE question, what one might call the $5.6 billion question, is whether anyone
will listen to the chorus of M.S. 45. The mere fact that Mayor Bloomberg and
Chancellor Klein happen to hold office as the windfall becomes available should
not mean their proposal, commendable though much of it is, should be adopted
unaltered. Two episodes this week -- the chancellor's imposition of a $5 limit
on parents' holiday gifts to teachers and the Department of Education's covert
decision to revise grades for students who took advanced courses, as reported in
The New York Sun -- attest to a disturbing disconnect between the Tweed
Courthouse and the public-school constituency.

Moreover, when the court-mandated money begins to flow, some watchdog needs to
make sure it reaches the schools themselves, not the curriculum companies,
test-prep operations, teacher-coaching consultants and mini-school
entrepreneurs, all of which constitute a cast of middlemen currently in
political and pedagogical favor.

''People are deciding in big gulps how to spend the money,'' said Mr. Solanto.
''I hope the chancellor stays with what he says is his philosophy -- that money
should go to the school level. If that happens, it'll be successful. If it's
skimmed for pet projects, then we'll all be asking who got the money and who
gets the blame.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 2004



CORRECTION: The On Education column on Wednesday, about modest suggestions from
staff members at a Bronx middle school on ways to spend $5.6 billion in
additional education aid, recommended for the city by a court-appointed panel,
misidentified the author of a Yiddish story about a man who enters heaven and
asks for nothing more than a warm roll. The author is I.L. Peretz, not Sholom
Aleichem.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Costly Right to Know

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 384 words


Citizens who rate the Freedom of Information law as priceless had better
consider this: The Justice Department is demanding close to $400,000 from a
public interest foundation before honoring its request for information on a
lingering mystery of 9/11 -- the secret numbers of immigrants who were rounded
up after the terrorist attacks and never heard from as their court records were
sealed. This huge tab, presented to the People for the American Way Foundation,
is well beyond established criteria and amounts to an insult to the law's
intent: letting citizens in on some of the murkier things the government may be
up to.

Justice officials insist that there is no easy way to provide the requested
information from scores of regional offices. The law provides for two free hours
of searching, but officials presented an estimated bill steeped in Newtonian
gibberish, if not outright stonewalling. Let's see, that's 13,314.25 hours at
$28 an hour for $372,799, plus more expenses not yet tabulated in other
jurisdictions.

There are doubtlessly cheaper, simpler ways to find the extent to which the
government buried court proceedings after the immigrant dragnet. We doubt that
it would take that much time and labor if the White House were making the
request.

Basically, the group pursuing the information wants to know how many requests
the government made to seal proceedings and what rationales were offered. Vital
security information is not part of the request, just an honest idea of
government lawyers' resort to stealth.

It's hardly a secret that when national security is heightened, the values of
government accountability, an informed citizenry and robust journalism can get
short shrift. Close to a dozen reporters, for example, have been served with
subpoenas or threatened with jail sentences in the past year for refusing to
reveal confidential sources to federal investigators. It is encouraging that two
concerned members of the House Judiciary Committee, Mike Pence, an Indiana
Republican, and Rick Boucher, a Virginia Democrat, have proposed a Free Flow of
Information Act that would mandate guidelines to rein in prosecutors. We agree
strongly with Mr. Pence that journalists' promises of confidentiality are
essential to the flow of information the public needs about its government.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 16, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Social Security Debate, Add Variable: Immigration

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and ROBIN TONER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15


The size of Social Security's financial shortfall in the decades ahead will
depend partly on how many people are allowed to immigrate to the United States,
a report to be released on Wednesday shows.

That finding comes as Congressional leaders of both parties prepare for a public
relations war at the grass roots next week over Social Security's future.
Lawmakers are in recess then and will head home for town hall meetings,
editorial board visits and a flurry of other events.

The immigration report, based on an analysis of data from the Social Security
Administration, concludes that if legal immigration rises by one-third over the
next 75 years, the result will be a 10 percent reduction in the Social Security
deficit.

Similarly, if the number of immigrants falls by a third, according to the study,
the retirement system's shortfall will worsen by 10 percent.

Since retirees' Social Security benefits are covered primarily by taxes paid by
current workers and their employers, the system's financing is strengthened if
there are more immigrants working. Immigrants typically arrive early in their
working lives, the study found, and contribute taxes to the system for decades
before they claim benefits.

The report was written by Stuart Anderson, who was a senior official at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in President Bush's first term and is now
executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy, a nonpartisan
research center in Arlington, Va.

Mr. Anderson's work was underwritten by the Merage Foundation for the American
Dream, a philanthropy based in Southern California that supports immigrants. The
foundation was established by Paul Merage, who came to the United States from
Iran when he was 16 and made a fortune in the frozen food business. A foundation
official gave the report to The New York Times.

Solvency of the Social Security system is one of the hottest political issues in
Washington this year. The unanswerable question of immigration illustrates the
difficulty of making long-range projections about the system's financing.

President Bush wants to permit workers to divert part of their Social Security
taxes into private investment accounts, a proposal that almost all Democratic
lawmakers oppose. Personal accounts would do nothing to shore up the system's
financing, but in theory the investment earnings would protect retirees' income
if the government reduced guaranteed Social Security benefits.

Leaders of both parties are acutely aware that public opinion is still forming
on Social Security and individual accounts, and are sending their lawmakers home
with charts, talking points and pep talks.

''I'm going to spend a lot of my time and a lot of my energy on this,'' said
Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, the third-ranking member of the majority
leadership, who gave his fellow Republicans a CD chock full of data on Tuesday
to make the party's case. ''I think a lot of my colleagues are going to do the
same, certainly the president.''

Mr. Santorum said the president was ''like a pit bull and he's got a pair of
trousers in his mouth and he's not going to let go.''

Republican strategists said the party was still defining the problem and
reassuring current retirees they would be unaffected by any solution.

''We have a lot of work to do in terms of educating the American people and, I
would say, our own colleagues as to the significance of this problem,'' said
Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Republican leader.

Republicans said any Social Security legislation must be bipartisan, but the
talking points provided to their members reflected the sharply partisan nature
of the fight.

''The Democratic leadership has denied a problem exists and has offered no plan,
which will only lead to future tax increases and benefit cuts,'' the document
declares.

The Democrats, for their part, kept up their daily attacks on Mr. Bush's plan.
At a news conference Tuesday, Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey declared that
''privatization doesn't deal with the solvency issue, period.'' And the Senate
minority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, gave a taste of the Democratic message
next week: ''We're going to use the word 'privatization' every chance we get.''

The immigration report found that at the present pace, new workers entering the
country would contribute Social Security taxes of $611 billion, in 2005 dollars,
over the next 75 years. Currently, a net of about 600,000 new legal immigrants
and about 300,000 new illegal immigrants enter the country each year.

Mr. Bush has proposed a guest worker program that would allow an unspecified
number of illegal immigrants already working in this country to apply for green
cards, or permits, so they can be here legally. Mr. Anderson, the report's
author, said this would presumably strengthen the Social Security system because
these people and their employers would pay Social Security taxes. At present,
illegal immigrants often work off the books, paying nothing in taxes.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Harry Reid leads Democratic attacks over Social
Security. (Photo by Evan Yucci/Associated Press)
 Senator Rick Santorum is a big supporter of the president's plan. (Photo by
Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. MAY REQUIRE CLOSER SCRUTINY TO GET A LICENSE

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2


Congress is moving quickly toward setting strict rules on how states issue
driver's licenses, requiring them to verify whether each applicant for a new
license or a renewal is in this country legally.

A House and Senate conference now taking place has included the requirements,
which apply to all 50 states and other jurisdictions that issue licenses, in a
supplemental appropriations bill for Iraq, aides involved in the process said on
Monday. The draft legislation will be completed in the next few days and is all
but certain to pass.

State officials complain that the new requirements will add a costly,
complicated burden to the issuance of driver's licenses, which has been their
responsibility for almost a century. Civil rights organizations and privacy
advocates say that they are concerned that a standardized driver's license would
amount to a national identification card and that a central database would be
vulnerable to identify theft.

The proposed regulations, intended to deter terrorist attacks, would replace a
provision of the intelligence bill passed in December that called on state and
federal agencies to develop new rules for licenses. That law did not
specifically require states to check the citizenship or immigration status of
applicants.

Eleven states now grant driver's licenses to noncitizens who do not have visas.
There is no reliable estimate of how many licenses have been issued to
noncitizens, whether in the country legally or illegally.

Some of the ideas in the new measure were considered and dropped in December.
But conservative members of the House, led by Representative F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, threatened to block passage of the
intelligence bill, and won an agreement that they could try again this year.
They got a pledge from the leadership to include the driver's license measures
in a must-pass bill this year.

Under the rules being considered, before granting a driver's license, a state
would have to require proof of citizenship or legal presence, proof of an
address and proof of a Social Security number. It would need to check the legal
status of noncitizens against a national immigration database, to save copies of
any documents shown and to store a digital image of the face of each applicant.

The licenses issued must include the driver's address and a digital photograph,
and would incorporate new authentication features designed to prevent
counterfeits. The new law would also require that the licenses of legal
temporary residents expire when their visas do. The rules would also apply to
renewals, an aide involved in the conference said.

Supporters of the law say it addresses important security problems and note that
some of the Sept. 11 hijackers used driver's licenses as identification when
checking in for their flights, and that a few had expired visas.

Supporters also say the measure will help control illegal immigration. Caroline
Espinosa, a spokeswoman for NumbersUSA, a group that lobbies for tighter borders
and tougher immigration laws, said, ''This is really targeted toward national
security, but a side effect would be discouraging illegal immigrants from coming
into the United States and making it more difficult for them to open a bank
account, buy a house, rent a car or buy a car.''

State officials and some senators say the new provision, known as the Real ID
measure, imposes verification procedures -- like the authentication of birth
certificates -- that would be difficult for even the federal government to meet.

A bipartisan group of senators -- the Republicans John E. Sununu of New
Hampshire and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, and the Democrats Joseph I.
Lieberman of Connecticut and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois -- complained about
the proposal in a recent letter to the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist.

''By repealing a provision enacting a central recommendation of the 9/11
commission, in favor of unworkably rigid federal mandates,'' the letter said,
''it would jeopardize an initiative that can make the nation safer from
terrorist attack.''

Cheye Calvo, the director of the transportation committee at the National
Council of State Legislatures, predicted that unintended conflicts would emerge
from the measure, which he noted would become law without any hearings.
Referring to state motor vehicle departments, Mr. Calvo asked, ''Is the goal
here to shut down D.M.V.'s?''

Many state licensing officials, however, have long seen a need for tighter
standards and better linking of databases because many drivers whose licenses
are revoked in one state quickly get a license in another.

In mid-April, experts representing governors, state legislatures, motor vehicle
departments, police departments, the federal Departments of Transportation and
Homeland Security, the AAA and the American Civil Liberties Union, along with
information technology experts, held three days of meetings here to begin
planning how to carry out the provisions in the intelligence reform law.

''In December, they recognized the complexity of this process and they set up a
system to discuss it back and forth,'' said State Senator Michael Balboni of New
York, who was appointed by the National Council of State Legislatures to
represent the states in negotiations in Washington on how to put the bill into
effect. ''Now, suddenly, less than five months later, they come back and say,
forget all that, we're going to take this unilateral approach.''

Mr. Balboni's group said the new rules would cost the states $500 million to
adopt.

Privacy advocates have raised criticisms. Timothy D. Sparapani, the chief
lobbyist on privacy issues for the A.C.L.U., said the standardized license would
amount to a national identification card. And with the data accessible in a
single database, he said, ''this is a recipe for identity-theft disaster.''

The new rules have been propelled by an unlikely combination of factors. House
conservatives have said they will not consider an expanded temporary worker
program, a goal of President Bush and business groups, until what they call
border security measures are adopted. Strategists working with the White House
say they have accepted the need to accommodate the conservatives to win support
for a package of changes in immigration law.

The 11 states that now issue licenses to people who cannot document their
immigration status are Hawaii, Maryland, Michigan, Montana, New Mexico, North
Carolina, Oregon, Tennessee, Utah, Washington and Wisconsin.

In July, Tennessee began issuing driver's licenses marked: ''For driving
purposes only. Not valid for identification.'' The license, given to people who
cannot supply proof that they are in the state legally, is printed vertically,
to distinguish it from most other driver's licenses, which are horizontal.

Melissa McDonald, a spokeswoman for the state motor vehicle department, said
Tennessee took the action because Gov. Phil Bredesen ''felt like we needed to
address the issue of homeland security, while still conducting written and road
tests for people who want to drive, and providing them with a document that
insurance companies would accept before writing insurance, which car owners are
required to have.''

Tennessee has issued about 22,000 such cards since July, Ms. McDonald said. The
written exam is given in Spanish, French and Korean. Utah began issuing a
similar card on March 8. Under Utah law, the card can be accepted as
identification by private entities but not government agencies.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. has pushed for new
driver's license restrictions. (Photo by Joe Cavaretta/Associated Press)(pg.
A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 4, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

House and Senate Reach Accord On $82 Billion for Costs of Wars

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3


A House and Senate conference agreed Tuesday to the final version of an $82
billion supplementary spending bill for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The measure includes $75.9 billion for military operations as well as other
money to increase death benefits to military families, to bolster United States
border security, and to provide aid to the Palestinians.

Over all, the measure matches the total spending requested by President Bush,
although lawmakers did not allocate money precisely as Mr. Bush had requested.

Passage of the legislation, which is all but certain in the House this week and
in the Senate next week, was delayed for weeks by debate over immigration and
border security measures attached to the House and Senate versions of the bill.
The conference version incorporates House measures that block states from
issuing standard driver's licenses to illegal immigrants and that override
environmental regulations that have impeded construction of a border barrier
near San Diego.

The conference version also includes House provisions making it harder for
immigrants to win asylum based on persecution or human rights abuses abroad. But
aides involved in the conference negotiations said Senator Sam Brownback,
Republican of Kansas, had persuaded the conference to adopt alternative language
advocated by the Southern Baptist Convention and other religious groups to
somewhat loosen those provisions.

On the emotional subject of benefits to the families of military personnel
killed on duty, the conference increased the maximum potential payments to
$500,000. The legislation would increase the automatic ''death gratuity'' to
$100,000 from $12,420 and it would increase the maximum elective insurance
payment to $400,000 from $250,000.

Congress substantially trimmed the president's request for foreign aid,
approving $4.2 billion instead of the $5.7 billion he had sought.

The conference allocated $592 million to pay for the construction of an American
Embassy in Baghdad, about 10 percent less than President Bush had requested,
according to a statement from the House appropriations committee.

The conference also provided $200 million in aid to the Palestinian territories,
including $50 million for Israel to improve transportation to and from the
territories. The conference bill also requires that the Government
Accountability Office, the nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress, audit
United States aid for the Palestinian territories, and it allocates $5 million
for an independent audit of the Palestinian Authority. The House version of the
bill had sought to block any direct American aid to the Palestinians.

The conference bill also includes $656 million for disaster relief to countries
in southern Asia hit by the tsunami last December.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congress Approves Financing For Military and Immigration

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 10


The Senate voted unanimously on Tuesday to pass a bill that included $82 billion
for supplemental military spending as well as several immigration and border
security measures that had provoked fierce debate in Congress that is likely to
continue for months.

The nature of the bill, mainly providing support for American troops overseas
that President Bush had requested, made it all but politically impossible to
oppose in its final form.

''Our brave men and women in uniform will not relent in their fight against
terror, and we must not relent in our support of them,'' Senator Bill Frist of
Tennessee, the majority leader, said. ''I'm glad that the House and Senate were
able to move so swiftly on this legislation.''

Before voting to approve the measure, Democrats complained one last time about
the use of an ''emergency supplemental'' bill to pay for potentially foreseeable
military expenses and accomplish a variety of other things Congress wanted.

''Having this supplemental, unfortunately with the big title of emergency over
it, appears to be an effort to rush things through to avoid Congressional
oversight and scrutiny,'' Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York,
said in the brief debate over the bill.

The most contentious aspects of the bill were a set of immigration measures
sponsored by Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. and attached by the
House, which he argued would make it harder for foreign terrorists to operate in
the United States. Those include provisions, known as the Real ID Act, which
will require states to check the citizenship or legal residence status of any
applicant for a driver's license, imposing new costs on state governments and
requiring more paperwork for drivers.

The bill also overrides environmental rules that have impeded the construction
of a barrier intended to deter illegal immigrants along the Mexican border near
San Diego. A third provision would make it harder for immigrants to gain amnesty
by making claims of persecution or human rights violations abroad.

The amnesty provision drew heavy criticism from religious and human rights
groups who argued that it could harm genuine victims who failed to make their
case effectively enough. Republicans senators persuaded the House and Senate
conference to loosen its language.

Aides involved in the negotiations said the bill had been modified to ensure
asylum-seekers a right to appeal immigration decisions. The measure was also
changed to say that immigration officials ''should consider the totality of
factors'' in evaluating an applicant's credibility to allow for traumatized
asylum seekers' making inconsistent statements.

One Democrat, Representative Robert Wexler of Florida, faulted his party as not
fighting harder to oppose the measures.

''I am baffled that so many Democrats caved in to the parliamentary tricks of
the Republican leadership,'' Mr. Wexler said.

Partly in response to the legislation, the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops began a ''justice for immigrants'' campaign on Tuesday.

''The bishops have grown increasingly concerned with the current public
discourse surrounding immigrants, in which newcomers are characterized as a
threat to our nation and not a benefit,'' Cardinal Theodore W. McCarrick,
archbishop of Washington, said.

The debate over immigration policy, begun during consideration of the
supplemental spending bill, is expected to continue as Congress considers a
broader immigration policy package including some form of a foreign guest-worker
program that would enable currently illegal immigrants to become citizens.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona, are expected to introduce that proposal within days.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Debate on Immigration Also Involves Ecuador's Top Sport

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Volleyball, and Some Hardball;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn., May 24


The march on June 12 will be a straight shot down Main Street and will double as
a kind of walking tour of the tension here.

It will begin at Kennedy Park, where the crowds of Hispanic men who gather
before dawn to find work as day laborers helped prompt Mayor Mark D. Boughton to
ask that the state police be deputized to enforce federal immigration laws.

Then it will move past the storefronts that a decade ago were vacant and are now
filled with Brazilian bakeries, Ecuadorean restaurants, immigrant-owned clothing
shops and a sense of determined striving.

And finally, exactly a mile from where it starts, the march will end at Rogers
Park, where young Ecuadorean men play volleyball on crowded courts most
evenings, sweating in work clothes beside uniformed children playing baseball.

The mayor has proposed adding more courts, a peace offering march organizers say
is welcome but insufficient.

''We are asking him for an apology, not only to new immigrants but to all
Danburians,'' said Wilson Hernandez, a naturalized citizen who owns a downtown
restaurant, La Mitad Del Mundo, and is the leader of the march organizers. ''We
are asking for respect for our contribution to this town.''

While leaders in some small cities across the country have won political support
by taking steps against soaring populations of illegal immigrants, in Danbury
some critics say Mr. Boughton, a Republican, has gone too far. Now the latest
immigrants in this eternally working-class city are pressing for political
respect. And the mayor, while not necessarily in retreat, is trying to repair
his links to immigrant groups by meeting with church leaders and march
organizers.

''I don't think you're going to hear me saying I'm sorry,'' the mayor said in an
interview at City Hall recently. ''I think you're going to hear me say the laws
of the United States of America should be enforced.''

On April 15, Mr. Boughton asked the state to deputize state police officers, a
move considered in other suburban cities with high immigration. The mayor has
said that as many as 15,000 of the city's immigrants are illegal, a figure
immigrant leaders say is drastically overstated. He has also moved to restrict
overcrowded apartments and tighten controls on large backyard volleyball games
organized by Ecuadoreans, for whom volleyball is a national passion. City
officials say the games grow into raucous parties with gambling, prostitution,
drugs and alcohol sales and disrupt once-quiet neighborhoods.

Immigrants also complained after a group called Connecticut Citizens for
Immigration Control, which has links to the Minuteman Project, a volunteer
patrol along the Mexican border, held a meeting in Danbury attended by some city
officials, though not by the mayor.

Now, while members of Danbury's Common Council continue to draft a ''repetitive
outdoor activity'' ordinance to restrict volleyball by cracking down on parking
and noise, among other things, the mayor says deputizing the state police may
not be necessary, that the police may have enough remedies without becoming
immigration agents.

''I don't think I'm backing away at all,'' Mr. Boughton said. ''I'm recognizing
that communication is crucial to this whole process.''

A former state lawmaker and high school social studies teacher, Mr. Boughton
said his attempts to confront immigration problems were driven by stressed city
services and constant complaints from residents.

Echoing officials in other towns, he said, ''These actions should not be
personalized by individuals because I'm talking about a failed federal public
policy.''

His critics say that by emphasizing a few extreme situations, he risks painting
all immigrants as criminals instead of as crucial players in the city's
revitalization. And so they plan to hold what many people say may be the city's
first march organized in defense of immigrants.

''We'll be wearing white shirts, with no insults to anybody,'' Mr. Hernandez
said. ''We've always said if we march we'll march silently, peacefully.''

Immigration has defined Danbury for two centuries, with the Irish, Italians and
Portuguese once coming to work in the city's famous hat factories. Now the
newcomers are Brazilians and Ecuadoreans, who often labor in landscaping,
construction and other trades in the wealthy suburbs of Fairfield County. They
come home at night to downtown Danbury, a struggling city surrounded by a
suburban building boom.

About 12,000 of the city's 75,000 residents are Hispanic, according to the 2000
Census. Yet both the mayor and immigrant leaders say the number of Ecuadoreans
has increased significantly since the census, growth driven by economic struggle
in Ecuador and an established pipeline into the New York region. Some say the
march will announce the political arrival of the newer immigrants. No Brazilians
or Hispanics are among the 17 Republicans and 4 Democrats on the Common Council.
Yet concern over how the march will come off -- even whether it will occur at
all -- has become an issue in itself.

Mr. Hernandez said at least 500 people were expected to march, and perhaps many
more. He said illegal immigrants who feared being arrested might not
participate. ''Somebody has to represent these people,'' he said. ''We want the
mayor to represent them, too.'' Mr. Hernandez said that he and other immigrant
leaders continued to meet with the mayor. ''I'm supportive of many of their
concerns and issues,'' Mr. Boughton said on Tuesday.

Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, has asked the state commissioner of public
safety, Leonard C. Boyle, to discuss Mr. Boughton's request with federal
officials, but Mrs. Rell said Tuesday that the state should not rush into
deputizing state officers.

Speaking to reporters after addressing the Greater Danbury Chamber of Commerce,
the governor said Mr. Boughton was struggling with demands new immigrants had
put on his local budget and had ''done a great job of easing tensions and trying
to bring people together to say, 'You know this is not us against you. We want
people to feel welcome in our city, but we also want people to be legally
here.'''

Both sides in the Danbury debate have a point, said Oscar Chacon, director of
Enlaces America, a Chicago-based group that helps link emerging immigrant
advocate groups across the country.

''The reality is we do a very poor job as a society when it comes to how to
handle changing demographics,'' he said. ''We don't have a policy at the federal
level that is helping local communities manage change.''

At least one immigrant plans to become a candidate for the Common Council
elections this fall. Rina F. Machado, 40, a mortgage broker who came from Brazil
two decades ago, said he planned to run as a Democrat. ''We've got to have
someone who will look out for the community, the immigrant community,'' he said.

Asked how he defined that community, in a town filled with generations of
newcomers from all over the world, he said, ''People with accents.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Danbury officials say backyard volleyball games turn into
raucous parties and are working to curtail them.
Mayor Mark D. Boughton wants federal immigration laws enforced. (Photographs by
Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Maria-Cinta Lowe, center, an immigration rights activist, walked out of a
meeting at the American Legion Hall in Danbury last week as Peter Gadiel, right,
tried to talk about enforcing immigration laws. (Photo by Douglas
Healey/Associated Press)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drivers' Licenses and Terrorism

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 222 words



To the Editor:

In ''No Number, No Ride'' (Sept. 12), you report: ''Since January, the Motor
Vehicles Department has sent out roughly 500,000 letters threatening to suspend
the licenses of drivers whose Social Security numbers do not match federal
records.''

This is the reality of the so-called war on terrorism. In order to create a
sense of security, busboys and day workers lose the right to a driver's license
and the means to get to their jobs and provide for their families.

Forget that they pay taxes. Forget that they do the jobs in Westchester that no
one else wants to do, and forget that they and their families may have been in
this country many years before 9/11. Because instead of an intelligence
community that can't live up to its description, and pseudo-allies that can't or
won't cooperate with the anti-terror agenda, the Bush administration has to make
a show of somebody. Preferably, somebody who isn't likely to visit a polling
place in the near future.

Influential support for the alien community will not be easy to find. Many of
the homeowners of Westchester County look upon the immigrant population as an
inexhaustible commodity.

To the extent that neither Democrats nor Republicans have a solution to the
problem of terror or a willingness to admit it, they are the same.

Karl Ackermann
Mount Kisco

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 67 words


A news analysis article on Monday about nationwide protests by immigrants
against the hostility they perceive in an age of security concerns misstated the
name of the organization represented by Monica Tarazi, who spoke at a City Hall
rally in New York, and misstated her title. It is the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, not League; she is the New York director, not the
executive director.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2004 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

The Persecuted, in Chains

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 502 words


In jails and prisons across the United States, thousands of people are detained
who have never been accused of crimes. The guards treat them like criminals, and
the criminals they bunk with often abuse them. They are held for months,
sometimes even years, but unlike the criminals, they do not know when their
sentences will end. They receive this treatment because they are foreigners who
arrived in the United States saying that they were fleeing persecution at home.

The United States did not always lock up the huddled masses. Until 1997, when
security concerns began to rise, asylum seekers could live like normal people
while awaiting their hearings. Today, thousands wait in detention. Some go to
immigration centers that greatly resemble prisons, but more than half are sent
to actual jails and prisons.

The Homeland Security Department, which took over immigration matters from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service 18 months ago, says it detains only those
who pose a security threat or who intend to disappear. But there are countless
cases of asylum seekers who are detained even when they clearly pose no risk,
have friends or relatives in America who will post bond, and are unlikely to
skip out on their asylum hearings. They include Tibetan nuns, religious
minorities from Africa, an Afghan woman persecuted by the Taliban for running a
girls' school, Ukrainian grass-roots activists and others. These people are
often the most noble in their society. They come here chasing America's promised
liberty, and they end up in chains.

The rules have become harsher since Sept. 11. An asylum seeker landing at an
American border post or airport speaks to an asylum officer, who determines
whether the person poses a security risk or has ties to the community. Those who
fail those tests are deported, and those who pass are detained. A majority of
the detainees are then paroled to await their hearings. But the decisions of
Homeland Security vary hugely by region. The regions based in Miami, Texas and
San Diego release 81 percent of their detainees; New York releases 8 percent,
and New Jersey only 4 percent.

In addition, the United States seems to be using harsh detention to discourage
people from fleeing to America. In the case of Haitians, this is an explicit
policy. Attorney General John Ashcroft ruled that all people arriving by boat --
a vast majority of them Haitians -- should be detained because freeing them
would encourage others to come. An exception is made for the Cubans who arrive
by boat. They get parole and a green card, by law.

Decisions on how to handle each immigrant should be based on individual
circumstances, according to clear rules that apply to all regions equally. The
United States must obviously be careful with people who come here and say they
are seeking asylum. But locking up thousands of people who pose no risk and are
accused of no crimes is expensive, unnecessary and a betrayal of America's
commitment to the persecuted.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2004



CORRECTION: An editorial last Saturday about asylum seekers incorrectly
described the process they undergo. An asylum officer decides whether an
applicant has a credible fear of persecution abroad; those who fail are
deported. Other Homeland Security officials determine whether an applicant poses
a security risk.

 An editorial on Tuesday about student voting gave an incorrect location for
Hamilton College. It is in Clinton, N.Y., not Utica.


DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 26, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York Considers One-Year Driving Permits for Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 886 words


The New York Department of Motor Vehicles is reviewing a proposal for a limited
''Immigrant Driver Permit'' that could allow hundreds of thousands of drivers
now facing license suspension to stay on the road legally.

The proposal comes from Fernando Mateo, a businessman with Republican Party ties
who heads a Hispanic organization. But it is already opposed by the leaders of
other immigrant groups. They point to problems with a similar two-tier licensing
scheme adopted in Tennessee earlier this year and warn that it could lead to
more deportations.

Mr. Mateo, who is president of the New York State Federation of Taxi Drivers and
of the New York-based umbrella group Hispanics Across America, said he plans to
describe the permit in more detail tomorrow morning on the steps of City Hall.
Department officials confirmed Friday that they were reviewing it.

In an interview, Mr. Mateo characterized the proposal as a compromise. The new
permit, he said, would not be valid for identification, would expire every year
and would be available only to those who surrendered a current license.

''We're not asking for newcomers to get it,'' said Mr. Mateo, who was a speaker
at the Republican National Convention and said he had found Gov. George E.
Pataki receptive to his idea. ''You're not going to able to use this document to
travel, to open up a bank account, to basically threaten this country's
security.''

But Gouri Sadhwani, executive director of the New York Civic Participation
Project, an immigrant and labor union advocacy group that has been protesting a
state license crackdown, said such a permit would in effect identify the bearer
as an immigrant without legal status, opening the door to arrest and
deportation.

''This is not a solution,'' she said.

As of last week, state officials had already suspended 1,700 driving licenses,
and almost 300,000 more could face suspension for lack of verifiable Social
Security numbers. State officials said the crackdown had been a means of
ferreting out fraud and foiling would-be terrorists. Immigrant advocates have
denounced the policy as discriminatory against noncitizens and dangerous to
highway safety.

Late last month, the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund filed a
federal lawsuit against the crackdown. The suit charges that the policy usurps
federal responsibility for immigration, oversteps state law on issuing licenses
and ignores due process.

Mr. Mateo and Ms. Sadhwani both called for a blue-ribbon commission to study the
issue. Mr. Mateo warned that many New York drivers facing license suspension for
lack of a Social Security number are already obtaining licenses fraudulently in
states with lesser requirements.

One such driver, Jose, who would give only his first name for fear of
deportation, described the method in a telephone interview. About three months
ago, he said, he rented a post office box in Michigan, drove to Detroit and,
claiming to have moved to the state, turned in his New York license for a
Michigan one.

Jose, 23, said he did so out of desperation, to keep his $300-a-week job as a
painter. He supports his five brothers and sisters back in Mexico and his
4-year-old American-born son. He left Mexico almost nine years ago, starting
work at 15.

''I'm the oldest,'' Jose said. ''That's why I had to come here, so my brothers
can go to school.''

Since 9/11, many states have struggled with conflicts between efforts to tighten
requirements for licenses, which increasingly serve as a national form of
identification, and efforts to protect the driving privileges of longtime
immigrant workers, despite their illegal status.

Tyler Moran, a policy analyst for the National Immigration Law Center, said many
states in search of a compromise were watching Tennessee, the only state to
adopt a two-tier scheme like the one Mr. Mateo is proposing for New York. But
within weeks of enactment July 1, Ms. Moran said, groups that had advocated an
end to licenses for illegal immigrants have assailed it, even as immigration
advocates have said it has served as a tool for racial and ethnic
discrimination.

One of the biggest problems is that, like New York law, Tennessee statutes hold
that drivers stopped for a traffic offense or other violation can be taken into
custody if, in the opinion of the officer, they lack adequate identification.

Before the new law, anyone who could prove Tennessee residency was eligible for
a driver's license, regardless of immigration status. Now, licenses are reserved
for those who can prove American citizenship or lawful permanent residence; all
others -- including some residents on legal, temporary visas -- can apply only
for the certificate, which expires every year.

The League of United Latin American Citizens, a Hispanic advocacy group, has
sued in federal court to stop Tennessee from carrying out the law, charging it
violates the Constitution by discriminating against foreign-born and Hispanic
residents.

That suit, seeking class-action status, charges that three Nashville plaintiffs
were denied regular licenses by clerks who belittled and insulted them,
confiscated their identification documents and, in one case, demanded that a
Puerto Rican man name the colors of the commonwealth's flag to prove that he was
an American.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 27, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Labor Truce Wearing Thin For Koreans And Mexicans

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1306 words


Three years ago, an innovative agreement brought an end to hostilities between
the Korean immigrants who ran New York's greengroceries and the thousands of
Mexican immigrants who did the groceries' grunt work.

The Mexicans picketed many greengrocers, accusing them of violating minimum-wage
laws by paying them $250 for 72-hour weeks -- $3.47 an hour, far less than the
$5.15 federal minimum -- while the greengrocers asserted that they were the
targets of an anti-Korean campaign. Amid fears that the dispute would erupt into
violence, the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, got the two sides to drop
their threats by forging an unusual truce: a code of conduct that 200 of the
city's estimated 1,000 greengrocers signed, pledging to comply with minimum-wage
and overtime laws and agreeing to inspections.

There is widespread agreement that the code has greatly increased compliance,
but now some workers are voicing concern that the groceries may return to the
bad old days when the code expires in February.

Mr. Spitzer and the greengrocers are discussing an extension, but many of the
merchants would be happy to let the code expire because they dislike having
their stores inspected by the outside monitors that the code provides for.

''A lot of these businesses don't want people looking over their shoulder,''
said Samuel Ahne, a lawyer for the Korean American Association, which negotiated
the code with Mr. Spitzer.

Gerry Dominguez, an organizer with the Association of Mexican-American Workers,
said that if the code was not renewed, compliance with wage laws would probably
decline. ''My feeling is, a lot of them might not sign the code again unless
there's a lot of pressure from unions and community groups,'' he said.

With that in mind, immigrant advocacy groups, unions and Mr. Spitzer's office
are discussing ways to pressure the greengrocers to agree to an extension.

Mr. Spitzer said that whether the code lapsed or continued, his office would
continue enforcement. ''We will continue to make sure through enforcement that
the 200 now complying will continue to comply,'' he said. ''And we will continue
to bring cases against those who have never signed up.''

But Patrick Purcell, organizing director for Local 1500 of the United Food and
Commercial Workers, said he feared widespread backsliding if the code was not
extended and the monitoring ended.

''You have to have enforcement, that's the key,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''And you
need to expand the code throughout the industry, so it's not just a stopgap
measure.''

The code has pleased Mexican workers, many of them illegal immigrants, because
the grocers not only pledged to obey minimum-wage and overtime laws, but also to
provide one week's vacation each year and several days' sick leave, provisions
not required by state law. At the same time, the code satisfied the greengrocers
because it stopped the ugly feud with their workers and reassured consumers that
their neighborhood grocers were complying with the law. The code also helped Mr.
Spitzer politically, with Hispanic groups praising him for helping the workers
and Korean groups applauding him for bringing peace.

Many immigrant groups voice hopes that the code will become a model for other
industries, like laundries and restaurants, where wage violations are prevalent.
Not only that, some labor unions are urging attorneys general in other states to
borrow the code-of-conduct concept to reduce pay violations in low-wage
industries in their states.

''Our sense is that it has worked very effectively with those greengrocers who
have signed up,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''Compliance is very high. The concept is
one we would like to use elsewhere.''

Mr. Purcell, who had long been at odds with the greengrocers, agreed. ''It's
been very successful,'' he said. ''The problems we had with minimum wage and
overtime, we know they're still out there, but they're not nearly as
prevalent.''

For Alfonso Garcia, the code has been a blessing.

Five years ago, days after arriving from Mexico, he started working at a
greengrocery near the Javits Convention Center. He worked 12 hours a day, six
days a week, stocking fruits and vegetables, and for those 72 hours of work, he
earned $250, with no time-and-a-half pay for overtime. He had no health
insurance and got no vacation or sick days.

''I wasn't earning enough to pay my rent or bills,'' Mr. Garcia said.

But now he works for a grocery that has signed the code. He puts in 10 hours a
day instead of 12, and is paid the minimum wage. When he works more than 40
hours in a week, he receives time-and-a-half pay, translating to $7.73 an hour.
This means that for a 60-hour week, he earns $450, compared with the $250 he
earned for 72-hour weeks in the precode days.

No one says the code is working perfectly. For one thing, only 200 of the city's
more than 1,000 greengrocers have signed on. And while the monitoring company
A.&L. Group, which Mr. Spitzer hired to inspect code participants, has found
great improvement regarding minimum wage and overtime, it reports many stores
are still not fulfilling requirements to keep time records or to give employees
receipts detailing their hours, rate of pay and deductions.

For years, many greengrocers saw time clocks and time records as unnecessary;
the low prices and 24-hour convenience that they offered consumers were premised
on low wages and 12-hour shifts. In a cash business where Social Security and
other payroll taxes often went unpaid, it was seen as foolish and even dangerous
to keep time records.

Mr. Spitzer acknowledged that the compliance rate was lower at the grocers that
had not signed. At one such store, on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan, a young
employee who insisted on anonymity because he feared dismissal said he was being
paid $300 while working 72-hour weeks, considerably less than the minimum wage.
But Mr. Ahne, the Korean American Association lawyer who helped negotiate the
code, asserted that its creation alone had made many nonsigning groceries obey
the law because they feared that the attorney general would crack down on them.

''It's increased compliance, even with the nonparticipants,'' Mr. Ahne said.
''Most of them are in compliance. There are always a few bad apples. There's
been a big advance in treating the workers right.''

Mr. Spitzer, in persuading grocers to agree to the code, warned them that if
they did not sign, he would carry out enforcement actions and make them pay tens
of thousands of dollars in back wages, perhaps bankrupting them. But for those
who signed, Mr. Spitzer vowed to drop any threat of collecting back wages, so
long as they complied.

Mr. Spitzer said he would like to extend the code to other industries, like
laundries and restaurants, but he sees many obstacles. Primarily, he explained,
to pressure an industry to consider a code, someone -- perhaps the state labor
department, plaintiffs' lawyers or his overstretched labor bureau -- would have
to exert pressure on the industry through investigations or lawsuits.

And then, he said, ''you need to have one entity that will speak for the
industry. Otherwise you're speaking with 500 atomized dots that can't be
organized in any way.''

The greengrocers, who are overwhelmingly Korean, had the Korean American
Association to negotiate for them. Ownership of New York's laundries and
restaurants is far more diverse.

Greengrocers participating in the code see another problem, that the state may
raise the minimum wage to $7 an hour. Sang Lee, manager of Siloam Farm, a
grocery at 802 Lexington Avenue, said a higher minimum wage, together with
rising rents and taxes, might force him to raise prices and push his store over
the edge.

''Rent is going up every year -- crazy Manhattan rent,'' he said. ''If prices
went up, we can't make money. People complain.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joon Yoon, right, manages 58 Grocery Corporation on Woodside
Avenue in Queens, which follows the code.
 Raimundo Molina Ochoa at 58 Grocery Corporation earns the minimum wage and
overtime pay as specified by the code. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Warehouses for Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 514 words


The starvation and disease stalking the refugee camps near the Darfur region of
Sudan are a reminder that for many refugees, conditions where they land are not
much better than the conditions they flee. The world has 12 million refugees,
and 7.4 million of them have been living in camps or settlements for more than
10 years. Many are prohibited from traveling or working, confined to crowded,
squalid tents, at the mercy of marauding gangs, and utterly dependent on
handouts of food insufficient to ward off hunger and on health care that does
not prevent cholera and dysentery. Some people have lived in such camps for
generations.

Half a million refugees from Myanmar, for example, have lived in camps in
neighboring countries for 20 years, with no right to work or travel. The same is
true of about 140,000 Somalis, who have lived since 1991 in closed camps in
northern Kenya.

The camps are often established quickly to deal with refugee emergencies and
never get dismantled. The original goal -- allowing refugees to return home when
conditions improve -- has had the perverse effect of preventing them from
establishing new lives in a new country. Countries like Pakistan, Zambia and
Chad, which end up accepting the vast majority of refugees from troubled
countries on their borders, would rather quarantine them than integrate them
into their societies.

It is time to rethink warehousing, and refugee groups and the United Nations
high commissioner for refugees have recently begun to explore how to help
refugees become more self-reliant. Refugees who learn skills or earn money can
be an asset to their war-torn homelands when they return. Moreover, there are
ways to open up refugee camps without angering host populations. Zambia, for
example, has given Angolan refugees land to farm. The food they grow has turned
sleepy villages into trading centers, fueling local commerce.

Wealthy countries need to absorb more people for permanent resettlement. Europe,
shamefully, accepts only a handful. The United States has become far less
welcoming over the last 10 years, and particularly since the terrorist acts of
Sept. 11, 2001. In 1992, the United States accepted 132,531 refugees; last year
it was 28,422, although this year that number will almost double.

The security concerns about accepting refugees from the camps are unfounded. No
terrorist would want to spend years in squalid camps and then undergo a long and
uncertain vetting process simply to infiltrate the United States.

Indeed, the security threat comes from the camps' concentration of idle,
frustrated, resentful young men. Warehousing itself can breed terrorism;
Afghanistan's Taliban movement was born in the refugee camps of Pakistan.

Initially, reducing warehousing will require commitment from wealthy countries
with the wherewithal to provide land, training and microcredit. That will cost
more than doling out a weekly ration of rice and cooking oil. But it could
reduce costs later, and it is a way to create a more promising future for
millions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 30, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Language Problem Delays Asylum Case

BYLINE: By Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 78 words


A decision in the case of an asylum seeker who says he fled the killings in
Darfur, Sudan, was delayed when the court-appointed interpreter told the judge
that she was struggling to understand a Sudanese witness. The immigration judge
in Elizabeth, N.J., rescheduled the hearing for next month. Lawyers believe that
the asylum seeker, Fadl Ibrahim Mohammed, is among the first to seek refuge in
the United States because of the violence in Darfur.   Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Travelers Face Fingerprints and Jet Lag

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: AIRLINE
SECURITY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 30


Laetitia Bohn walked into Newark Liberty International Airport on Thursday,
dazed and sleepy after an eight-hour flight from Paris, and was jolted from her
reverie when an immigration officer asked for her photograph and fingerprints
along with her passport.

The officer took a digital scan of her left index finger, then her right, and
then snapped her picture with a tiny camera. The entire process took only a few
seconds, but for Ms. Bohn, a 29-year-old tourist from France, it was an
unnerving symbol of how much the United States had changed since the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

''It made me feel kind of guilty, like a prisoner,'' Ms. Bohn said. ''You can
feel the difference since 9/11. I was in New York seven years ago and people
were happy to have visitors. I don't think it's the case anymore.''

And so the day went -- with a click of a camera and sharply conflicting emotions
as foreign visitors across the country arrived at American airports, where
officials for the first time began photographing and electronically
fingerprinting travelers from 27 industrialized nations, including longtime
allies like England, France, Germany, Spain, Japan and Australia.

The policy shift, which was announced in April and took effect on Thursday, will
affect about 13 million visitors each year from 22 European countries as well as
Brunei, Singapore, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, who can currently travel to
the United States for up to 90 days without a visa.

The change was made after intelligence reports indicated that terrorists might
take advantage of that provision, which allows travelers from Europe and other
industrialized countries to travel to the United States with little scrutiny.

Until now, only travelers who needed visas to visit the United States were
fingerprinted and photographed at American airports in a program started in
January to ensure that suspected terrorists, criminals and violators of
immigration law do not enter the country. The program, which is now expected to
screen about 20 million foreign visitors at 115 airports and 14 seaports
annually, is the latest security measure to affect foreign visitors since the
Sept. 11 attacks.

Last year, American embassies and consulates around the world began collecting
digital fingerprints from foreigners applying for visas.

And beginning this fall, officials will require overseas visitors at some
airports and seaports to be fingerprinted and photographed before they leave the
United States to monitor whether visitors are in fact returning to their home
countries.

''America has been a welcoming country and it continues to be one, but in the
post-9/11 era it has been necessary to make sure we know who is traveling to our
country,'' said Commissioner Robert C. Bonner, who directs the customs and
border protection unit at the Department of Homeland Security.

Reaction from foreign governments was mostly muted. But some officials said the
policy raised privacy concerns. Japanese officials said they had asked that the
fingerprints and photographs be deleted when their citizens leave this country.

''We understand the necessity of the U.S.'s new measures,'' Motohisa Suzuki, who
coordinates antiterrorism programs for Japan's Cabinet Office, said on Thursday.
But Mr. Suzuki added, ''We need to be fully discreet about the handling of the
private information.''

Airline and airport officials were bracing for longer lines on Thursday. But
customs officials, who surveyed about 20 airports on Thursday afternoon, said
that only 40 of the 1,500 flights reported slower than normal waiting times
attributed to the new procedures.

Officials noted, however, that September was typically a slow month for overseas
arrivals and that Thursday was typically a quiet travel day.

''So far, so good,'' said Joseph A. Cardinale, acting port director for passport
control at the Newark airport. ''We've had the experience of doing the
fingerprints and the photographs for several months now, so it's not new to the
officers. That's a tremendous help.''

Tourists greeted the system with a mixture of nonchalance and irritation.

Bruce Reid, a 59-year-old doctor from Australia, said he did not object. ''I
haven't got a criminal record, so it doesn't worry me much,'' said Dr. Reid, who
flew into Los Angeles.

Marleen Maas, 43, a homemaker from Frankfurt, disagreed.

''What's next? Are they going to take pieces of my hair, too?'' asked Ms. Maas,
who flew into Miami to visit her daughter. ''It didn't take long, but it made me
feel like a criminal.''

In Newark, Marc Eisenchteter of Paris said the process moved efficiently. Ms.
Bohn agreed and said that despite her misgivings she would still return to the
United States.

''It was more easy to visit before,'' she said. ''But I will still come back.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laetitia Bohn, left, and Emmanuel Dauce left Terminal C at
Newark Liberty International Airport yesterday after an eight-hour flight from
Paris. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 A fingerprint scanner at the United States Embassy in Brussels. (Photo by Yves
Logghe/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tenement Life, at $200-Plus a Night

BYLINE: By JOHN FREEMAN GILL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER
EAST SIDE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 582 words


On Orchard Street below Delancey, a block so overcrowded with poor immigrants
100 years ago that its density rivaled that of Bombay, a man in an old-fashioned
newsboy cap recently stood on the cobblestones and did something few of his
forebears are likely ever to have done: he spoke with brimming heart about the
intrinsic beauty of his tenement.

After gaining sole ownership of the leaky multifamily dwelling at 100 Orchard
Street in 2000, ''I asked myself, What's the soul of the building and the block
like?'' said Randy Settenbrino, a Brooklyn-born grandson of Italian-Americans
and Russian-Jewish immigrants. ''Since this had been the Jewish ghetto, I wanted
to accurately represent the immigrant experience with a historical Jewish
accent.''

The resulting blend of preservation and design is the nearly completed Blue Moon
Hotel, an eight-story, 22-room boutique guest house combining humble period
details with modern luxuries like whirlpool baths and a jazz-filled basement
lounge. With rooms going for $200-plus per night and a street-level kosher
restaurant and bakery intended to lure local hipsters and Orthodox
out-of-towners alike, tenement chic has come to the Lower East Side.

''The first thing I said after buying it was, 'I want to preserve the
building,''' Mr. Settenbrino recalled, stepping inside his hotel to a room where
Latino immigrants were laying marble tile. ''People said: 'You're nuts. It's a
tenement.'''

But Mr. Settenbrino, a realtor and Brooklyn College-trained artist, believes
that life's beauty lies in its imperfections, and he set about applying this
philosophy to his new hotel, which is opposite the Lower East Side Tenement
Museum.

While 100 Orchard was being gutted and reinforced with steel to support three
new stories of light stone, Mr. Settenbrino rescued, and later re-installed, its
original 19th-century oak wainscoting and pine window moldings, intentionally
leaving the nail holes unfilled. An ancient wooden door, found lodged beneath
the rickety basement staircase, was restored and moved to a prominent spot at
the entrance. And all manner of period bottles, irons and ephemera were salvaged
for future display on shelves supported by brackets taken from the tenement's
none-too-glamorous hallway privies. ''Even the toilet-tank brackets were
beautiful,'' Mr. Settenbrino said.

On a rapidly gentrifying street of contrasts, where one can buy kosher pickles
out of a barrel or raffish Italian shoes made of ostrich, the Blue Moon bridges
two eras. Fire escapes on which immigrants once slept on sweltering summer
nights were removed, cut down and reattached as decorative balconies. And inside
the sun-filled top floor of the Blue Moon, as Mr. Settenbrino proudly pointed
out how the sink cabinets incorporate spindles from the tenement staircase, it
was possible to see both where the hotel's owner came from and where he might be
going.

East of the rear suite stretched the Williamsburg Bridge, on the far side of
whose span all of Mr. Settenbrino's grandparents once lived, including his
Grandma Ida, whose konkletten -- ground meat and potato patties -- are on the
hotel menu. In the front suite, where Mr. Settenbrino's family recently
celebrated his youngest son's bris, the balcony doors opened onto a
million-dollar view of the Empire State Building.

''It's an ambitious project,'' said this grandson of immigrants, who hopes to
open in a few months, ''but we seem to be here. We seem to be arriving.''   JOHN
FREEMAN GILL


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Randy Settenbrino, hotelier, below right, wanted to
''accurately represent the immigrant experience.'' (Photographs by Yoni
Brook/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Woman's Long Trek To a Fifth Avenue Salon

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

SECTION: Section 10; Column 2; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words


MILLIONS of Americans feel trapped in low-paying jobs with little prospect of
advancing. Here to give them hope is Cornelia Zicu, a recent immigrant.

Ms. Zicu left her native Romania in 1989 with her husband, Alexandru, and their
4-year-old son, Hani, when she was 28 and the country was ruled by Communists.
They fled to Belgium and then Germany but went on to Austria, where they were
caught at the border. There, guards separated them and planted a gun firmly
against their heads.

Thus continued their saga of escape from Eastern Europe, where few people who
didn't belong to the Communist Party had any expectations of a better life, into
the raucous world of American capitalism. Like millions of other newcomers to
the United States, Ms. Zicu faced a harsh life and a long struggle out of
poverty. But like thousands of immigrants before her, she fought her way to
entrepreneurial success, ultimately opening her own day spa in New York last
year and a larger one this year. Anyone with grit and a willingness to take
risks, she says, can match her trajectory in what she considers to still be the
land of opportunity.

Ms. Zicu, who is quick-thinking and speaks English, French, Russian, Greek and a
bit of Italian, convinced officials at the Austrian border that day 15 years ago
that she and her family were on their way to visit friends and had not known
they needed a visa.

The police freed them, but the family, not wanting to push their luck, spent the
night hiding in a forest before moving to a refugee camp. They stayed in Austria
for a year and a half, while dreaming of going to the United States. The
International Rescue Committee sponsored their immigration and in March 1992
they landed in New York with no money, no English and no friends.

''I didn't leave Romania because I didn't have food or because I had to stand in
line, but because I was born like a child who cannot be put in the box,'' said
Ms. Zicu, who is now 43 43. ''I always wanted to do what I wanted to do. My
parents never tried to change me; they loved me and always said, 'You're the
best, the smartest.' If you grow up with people who believe in you, you have no
fear. People who don't have fear are successful.''

That is an understatement for Ms. Zicu, who admits to a fierce competitive
streak but an even stronger work ethic. ''I always had to be the first in class,
or the leader in class,'' she said. ''I have to be the top or nothing, in
everything I do.''

She studied architecture at school in Romania, but it was skin care -- that
noble profession that Eastern Europeans seem to know instinctively -- that
really attracted her. Like Helena Rubinstein and Mario Badescu before her, Ms.
Zicu loves everything to do with beauty. As a child growing up in Slobozia, she
watched her grandmother whip up an herbal mask or an all-natural salve. She is
obsessed, she says, with healing blemishes and cleaning pores. (And no, she
doesn't mind digging her fingers into clients' faces and inflicting no small
amount of pain on them. It's all part of the curative process, she said.)

''Because of the dictator, we didn't have a lot of health and beauty products,''
she said, referring to Nicolae Ceausescu, the Communist leader who was executed
in 1989. ''But Grandma knew how to fix everything with herbs and plants and
vegetables. I grew up seeing her prepare masks for my mother's face, or remedies
for me when I was sick. She taught me that beauty comes from inside and outside.
All my life I was taught how to smile and how to love people, and how important
it is to touch people. Beauty means good skin, nice clothes, art, good posture,
very nice movement, the way you talk, the tonality.''

As an adult, when Ms. Zicu worked as an architect in Romania, she brought makeup
to her office and applied it to her colleagues before they settled down to
business. At night, she studied skin care.

''We have traditions for hundreds of years in beauty,'' she said. ''Even if
Ceausescu was the ugliest man and the system was the dirtiest one, everyone had
three weeks a year free to go to a resort. It's really a paradox. Beauty is in
our blood. The population of Romania is 22 million and we have 300 resorts.
Forget about baseball: skin care is our tradition.''

Soon after arriving in Austria and after leaving the refugee camp, Ms. Zicu took
a job in a shoe factory, where her days were grueling: waking up at 5 a.m.,
toiling on the assembly line, studying German in the afternoon and washing
dishes at a pizzeria at night. ''They didn't explain to me how to use the
dishwash machine, and I thought, 'Oh my God, this will break all the dishes and
you'll charge me for them and I don't have money to pay,' '' she recalled,
laughing.

It got worse when she came down with an infection and her face broke out in
welts. ''That was a big tragedy for me, worse than when I was stuck on the
border with a gun on my head. When I saw my face infected, I was very
depressed.''

So she did what any good Romanian woman would do: she used her limited funds to
find an aesthetician, or a facialist. Her dedication to beauty amused and
impressed her facialist. ''They see this crazy immigrant who doesn't have money
to eat but wants to spend the last shilling to treat her face,'' she said. ''But
they didn't understand that for me that was the most important thing.''

After a year and a half in Austria, when the Zicus made it to New York, life
took on the familiar immigrant hue: her husband, who had worked with computers
in Romania, got a job as an auto mechanic in Queens, earning $300 a week, just
enough for the family to subsist on milk and bread. Ms. Zicu set about learning
English and mastering city life, like navigating the subway system. She enrolled
in classes to further her studies in skin care; the tuition cost $10,000, but a
bank loan helped her with it.

After graduating a year later, she got a job at a small spa and then landed at a
hotel, the Peninsula New York, where she rose to head aesthetician. During her
nine years there, she conceived new treatments, overhauled the menu of services,
trained the staff members and even helped create new products. She developed a
loyal clientele that included many household names, she said, but refused to
identify them to protect their privacy.

Gradually, she gained enough confidence to open her own business, Cornelia, on
Madison Avenue, a year ago. But that has been just a skip and a jump on her way
to the ultimate luxury of Fifth Avenue, where the 20,000-square-foot Cornelia
Day Resort, at 52nd Street, high above a Ferragamo store, is to open Dec. 1.
(She and her chief executive, Rick Aidekman, a real estate developer, are
hiring; go to cornelia.com for more information.)

Naturally, Ms. Zicu has her hands in every aspect of the new spa, from designing
the floor plan to picking the slippers, robes and pillows. She has created a tea
line culled from her grandmother's formulas, and has three lines of skin-care
products, which she has been devising with chemists in London. Her husband is
the operations manager.

Fifth Avenue is a far cry from Slobozia. But Ms. Zicu is not surprised at her
success. ''The minute we stepped on American soil, we felt at home,'' she said.
''My destiny was to be in America, I feel so connected with this country. I was
so proud; this country adopted us as the new kid. I love my country and my
people, but when I look back on that dirty ugly system I feel so honored to be
part of this family.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cornelia Zicu, left, owns a salon in New York, but fled Romania
only 15 years ago. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 6, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Shows Health Benefit for Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 780 words


More than half the children under 7 in New York City are growing up in immigrant
families, and in many of them no one over 13 speaks English well. But a new
report released yesterday suggests that this linguistic isolation helps protect
them from the higher rates of obesity, asthma, and adolescent risk-taking that
afflict native-born and Americanized children.

Though the report also cautions that the language barriers make it harder for
children to get the health insurance and education they need, it finds that
foreign-born children are healthier when they arrive in the United States than
those of the same age who were born here.

In fact, the longer immigrant children stay in America, adopting the diet and
lifestyle of their peers, the unhealthier they are likely to become, according
to the report, a synthesis of several national studies by the David and Lucile
Packard Foundation, a California philanthropy that studies the well-being of
children.

''It's a bit of a twist,'' said Kathleen Mullan Harris, director of the National
Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health, issued by the National Institutes of
Health and cited in the report.

''Linguistic isolation is a protective thing because it slows assimilation, and
most people think assimilation is good.'' But, she added, ''in this case
assimilation means adopting unhealthy behavior and risk factors from which they
are protected in their own culture.''

The first generation of immigrant adolescents -- the foreign-born -- had less
asthma, less obesity, fewer school days missed, and less involvement in
substance use, sex, delinquency and violence than did the second generation,
those born in America to immigrant parents.

The study found 5 percent reporting asthma in the first generation, 8 percent in
the second and 12 to 16 percent in the third generation, depending on ethnicity.
Obesity jumped from 17 percent for foreign-born teenagers to 27 percent of those
born in America to immigrant parents.

''But the second generation still looks better than the native-born kids in
native-born families,'' Professor Harris said. ''People don't quite know how to
take it -- to say that American life is bad for you is not exactly correct.''

Even more tricky to interpret are the differences in adolescent behavior.

Americans tend to think of adolescence as a developmental period when it is
common to experiment and take risks, some researchers say. Among
first-generation immigrant teenagers, 8 percent report using three or more
controlled substances. That figure rises to 17 percent in the second generation
and to a quarter of native-born white adolescents with native-born parents.

''We give adolescents great autonomy,'' Professor Harris said. ''When immigrants
come here, they come from cultures where adolescence is not defined that way. As
they assimilate and incorporate the U.S. norms, their involvement in less
healthy behaviors increases.''

In trying to explain how being in an immigrant family helps, Professor Harris,
who teaches sociology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said
she found that being tied to a foreign culture and ethnic values in immigrant
enclaves explained up to half the differences, and speaking a foreign language
at home was part of that.

Among some immigrant groups in New York, including families from Korea, China
and Mexico, more than 60 percent of children under 9 do not speak English at
home, according to an analysis by Donald J. Hernandez, one of the writers of the
report.

But Professor Hernandez, a sociologist at the State University of New York at
Albany, emphasized the risks associated with the lack of English-speaking
parents, especially if they are poor and have little education.

Nationally, children in immigrant homes are less likely than those in native
families to have health insurance (75.6 percent versus 88 percent), more likely
to be behind a grade or more in school (10 percent versus 8 percent at age 16),
and less likely to graduate from high school (72 percent versus 79 percent by
age 19).

One concern in New York, he said, is the disparity in the percentage of children
attending preschool, which can be a crucial bridge for children from
non-English-speaking homes.

''Yes, there's a paradox,'' he said. ''If a family is isolated in its household
from English-speaking society, they're isolated for good or for ill. They may be
cut off from fast-food franchises, they may be cut off from some of the negative
aspects of American society, but at the same time they're cut off from
educational institutions, they're not capable of interacting directly with
teachers, with social services, with health institutions.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Immigrant Children and Health''A study of children in
immigrant families by the David and Lucile Packard Foundation found that
linguistic isolation may result in health benefits for adolescents, but that the
benefits begin to decrease in succeeding generations.Percentage of immigrant
families reporting linguistic isolation*New York City dataNative-born:
4%Immigrant: 31*Households where no one over the age of 13 speaks English very
wellPercentage of immigrant adolescents reporting various health
indicatorsNationwide data (self-reported)Overall health (fair or poor)First
generation: 9%Second generation: 11AsthmaFirst generation: 5Second generation:
8ObesityFirst generation: 17Second generation: 27

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 7, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SPOT ON IMMIGRATION IS DENOUNCED

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN
BRIEFING -- THE ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 175 words


A Republican television advertisement in the Oklahoma Senate race shows images
of Hispanics and dark hands receiving welfare payments, and Democrats have
denounced the spot as ''race-baiting.'' The advertisement by the National
Republican Senatorial Committee is on behalf of Tom Coburn, a former Republican
House member, and attacks the voting record of the Democratic candidate,
Representative Brad Carson, on the immigration issue. The narrator says Mr.
Carson pledged to fight for Oklahoma jobs but voted to make it easier for
illegal immigrants to ''cross our borders and take our jobs'' and to allow
immigrants to get welfare. Senator Jon Corzine, the chairman of the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee, demanded that the advertisement be pulled
immediately and that the Republicans ''apologize to our nation's Hispanic and
African-American populations.'' Dan Allen, communications director at the
Republican committee, called the advertisement a factual look at Mr. Carson's
voting record and said the advertisements would continue to run.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: North Carolina: Videotaping Guilty Plea

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 119 words


A man jailed since July 20 after a police officer saw him videotaping Charlotte
skyscrapers agreed to plead guilty to immigration charges. The man, Kamran
Akhtar, also agreed spend up to six months in prison before being deported to
his native Pakistan. Investigators found a videotape in hiss camera showing the
60-story Bank of America tower and the skyscraper that houses the Charlotte
office of the F.B.I. A hearing was set for Tuesday at which Mr. Akhtar, 35, is
to formally plead guilty to charges of failing to leave the United States,
making false statements and possessing false identification documents. In 1998,
a New York court ruled that Mr. Akhtar was in the country illegally and it
ordered him to leave.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Canada, an Exile Pleads a Tangled Case for Refuge

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1243 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


JEREMY HINZMAN lives on a leafy street in a comfortable Toronto neighborhood
with his wife and baby son, a tableau probably not all that different from the
street he grew up on in Rapid City, S.D. He runs marathons, keeping the wiry
build of a paratrooper who served in Afghanistan. He talks of going to college
and becoming a psychologist or journalist someday.

But while Mr. Hinzman lives only a short drive from the American border, he has
crossed over a line from which there may be no return. He is a deserter from the
United States Army while his country is at war.

With a federal warrant out for his arrest, Mr. Hinzman has made Canada his home,
done some speaking against the war in Iraq and become something of a hero in the
peace movement. He has submitted an application to immigration authorities
requesting permission to remain here as a refugee, pleading that he is escaping
punishment for refusing to fight in a war that broke international law. A
hearing on his request is scheduled for Dec. 6.

To some, Mr. Hinzman is nothing more than a traitor; to others he is a
principled pacifist. Either way he is a decidedly unconventional man who seems
to have made some questionable decisions at crucial and apparently confused
moments of his life.

Mr. Hinzman says there is nothing tragic about him or even the three years he
served in the Army. According to him, he decided with his wife, Nga Nguyen, a
woman born to Vietnamese parents in Laos, to pack their car at Fort Bragg, N.C.,
and drive to Canada only days before he was to be deployed to Iraq for one
simple reason.

''I just didn't want to shoot anybody,'' he said, adding that he felt he had no
choice but to desert after the Army rejected his application for conscientious
objector status. ''I felt the only way to stop perpetuating these endless cycles
of violence was to take myself out of the equation.''

Like many thousands of American draft evaders and deserters who came to Canada
during the Vietnam War, Mr. Hinzman is a critic of American foreign policy. But
he stands virtually alone now as a volunteer soldier who chose to flee his
country rather than serve in combat or go to jail. His story is made all the
more peculiar by the fact that he says he would be willing to return to the Army
tomorrow or even go to Iraq -- as long as he would not have to shoot a gun
himself.

Desertion is rare in the Army, and it has become even rarer since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. Last year 2,800 Army personnel deserted out of a total of
nearly a half million soldiers, a decline from 4,000 desertions in 2002. The
downward trend is continuing this year, according to the Army.

There are only a handful of known American Army deserters in Canada, but Mr.
Hinzman was the first to apply for refugee status.

MR. HINZMAN says he joined the Army in January 2001 in part to be able to afford
to eventually go to college, but his other reason was linked to what he calls
his Buddhist ''lens'' on life. ''My intent,'' he said, ''was to annihilate my
ego. What better place to crush your ego than the Army?'' Mr. Hinzman admits now
that he may have been naive when he signed up.

''On the surface, obviously I made the wrong career choice and I wasn't
introspective enough before I went in,'' he said calmly, sitting on his futon
couch in a near lotus position with his bare feet crossed. ''I'm not going to
say I am glad I enlisted, but even though it may be narcissistic to say, I think
it has been valuable in my development as a person. I'm not bitter. I'm not a
victim.''

Mr. Hinzman is only 25, but he is a man of intricate thoughts and emotions. He
is a Roman Catholic, a convert who has looked to the ascetic St. Francis of
Assisi for inspiration. But his spiritual searching has taken him far and wide,
from Quaker meetings to Buddhist studies. While he has not yet attended college,
he casually throws esoteric literary, historical and philosophical references in
his arguments, and he can sometimes sound so otherworldly it is far easier to
imagine him as a monk than as a soldier.

''The biggest book that influenced me was Ecclesiastes from the Old Testament,''
he said. ''That's like 'Vanity, vanity, all the vanity, there is nothing new
under the sun.' That whole book, you know, 'you are going to die so why bother.'
It's definitely the postmodern book before postmodernism was even a thought in
someone's mind.''

His views on more worldly subjects can also be iconoclastic. He believes, for
instance, that Michael Moore's film ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' is unfair to President
Bush and mischaracterizes the morale and attitudes of American soldiers serving
in Iraq. ''You can make the pope look like Satan when you are in the editing
room, and that's what he does,'' he said. ''Moore has turned dissent into a
commodity.''

A 2002 study by the United States Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and
Social Sciences found that deserters tended to be less educated and of low
intellectual aptitude, to engage in delinquent acts before deserting, to have
family and personal problems, and to come from broken homes.

Mr. Hinzman fits only part of that mold, having been born with no father on his
birth certificate -- ''I am a bastard,'' he says nonchalantly, almost proudly --
and being raised by his grandparents after his mother could not care for him,
for reasons he refused to discuss. He did well enough in the Army to be promoted
to specialist, and he was due to enter the elite Ranger school when he decided
to file for conscientious objector status in August 2002.

His doubts began the year before during his basic training, when he and his unit
were marching to mess hall. ''We were marching in formation, in step, and when
we marched we would yell cadences: 'Train to kill, kill we will.' We kept
getting threatened that we weren't being loud enough and needed to be more
boisterous. I just thought this is supposedly the most civilized society in the
world. I mean, it was like the dark side.''

He said he was ''living a double life'' while performing as his platoon's radio
operator at Fort Bragg. ''If I had gone to Ranger school it would have been a
point of no return for me,'' he said. Conceding his own ambivalence, he added,
''I think I probably would have ate it up. I had to look at myself in the mirror
and say, 'I'm kind of living a lie here.'''

While awaiting a hearing on his conscientious objector application, Mr. Hinzman
was sent to Afghanistan with his unit, the Second Battalion of the 504th
Parachute Infantry Regiment, where he did kitchen work for nearly a year until
his case was settled. Mr. Hinzman said his application was rejected early last
year because he had admitted he would fight in self-defense if his unit was
attacked.

MAJ. AMY HANNAH, spokeswoman for the 82nd Airborne, said the investigating
officer had concluded that ''Hinzman was using the C.O. process to get out of
the infantry.'' She said he never took his case to a final appeal.

Mr. Hinzman conceded, ''My one regret is that I didn't just strip off my uniform
and refuse to cooperate.'' Instead, he went back to duty.

His claim that he is escaping an illegal war could potentially set a crucial
precedent for other deserters. His chances seem only fair, though.

Noting that Mr. Hinzman was a volunteer and not a draftee at a preliminary
hearing in July, a Canadian refugee board member suggested that his case could
be compared to a fireman who did not want to fight fires.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: JEREMY HINZMAN

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: JEREMY HINZMAN (Photo by Steve Payne for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 11, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Post-9/11, Even Evading Subway Fares Can Raise the Prospect of Deportation

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; When a MetroCard Led Far Out of
Town; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words


Andre Venant, a New York chef who had fallen ill and on hard times, sometimes
made ends meet last winter with a doctored MetroCard, evading subway fares or
selling turnstile swipes to others. He was arrested a few times but never
sentenced to more than seven days in jail. So he was shocked when his third jail
term opened a trapdoor to deportation.

Instead of being freed after a week at Rikers Island, Mr. Venant, 52, a legal
permanent resident of the United States who had worked at well-known Manhattan
restaurants for most of two decades, was transferred to a New Jersey jail by
immigration agents.

He soon found himself in shackles on a predawn flight to rural Louisiana. There,
in the 1,000-bed Federal Detention Center in Oakdale, he learned that he could
be jailed indefinitely, without legal counsel, while the government sought to
deport him to his native Madagascar for ''crimes involving moral turpitude'' --
that is, three convictions for MetroCard offenses that are commonplace in New
York.

As the United States Department of Homeland Security enforces 1996 immigration
restrictions with new vigor, Mr. Venant's case illustrates a little-known, but
growing phenomenon. In the year ending in June, as part of a new federal
project, more than 1,800 foreign-born New Yorkers who had completed short terms
at Rikers were turned over to immigration authorities for deportation, officials
said. Many, like Mr. Venant, were legal residents who had pleaded guilty to
misdemeanors, unaware that they were making themselves deportable, or that the
government could send them to wait in jail cells far from family, friends and
legal help.

A highly critical report by an American Bar Association committee recently
concluded that the United States is operating a two-tier system of justice in
which noncitizens are being deported in record numbers ''in many cases for the
slightest infractions and often with little or no chance to appeal.'' Lawyers
for immigrants say that deportation is now routinely a penalty out of proportion
to the crime.

''I'm seeing more and more cases where you just shake your head and say, 'This
just can't be,''' said Bryan Lonegan, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who offers one
of the few sources of free legal representation to hundreds of immigration
detainees in New Jersey jails, where the federal government rents space.
''Granted, the United States has a sovereign right to determine who can come and
stay in the country. But there's also the question of justice tempered with
mercy, and we seem to have lost that part.''

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security said the Rikers project and
similar operations around the country simply reflected more systematic
enforcement of immigration laws since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. An average
of 524 foreign-born residents arrive at Rikers each month, and after
scrutinizing their records, immigration agents find an average of 226
deportable.

''Violations are violations,'' said Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for the
department, citing the project at Rikers. ''That's what the law says. Now we're
getting people on the front end of the system, especially in New York, instead
of chasing them after they've been released.''

Nationally, more than 79,000 immigrants were deported last year as ''criminal
aliens,'' government figures show. More than 8,000 of them were legal permanent
residents, a number that has nearly tripled since more sweeping immigration laws
shrank or eliminated judicial review in many cases by making detention mandatory
and deportation automatic.

Groups that seek to restrict immigration are pleased with the crackdown.

''Green cards are not citizenship-lite,'' said Dan Stein, president of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which wants fewer immigrants.
''There has never been a guarantee given to long-term green card holders that
the enforcement posture of the federal government would not change. It's been
far too lax for far too long.''

Many of the 140,000 immigrants detained nationally last year faced removal after
serving prison terms for serious crimes. But under immigration law, any
nonviolent offense punishable by a year in jail, even shoplifting, can be termed
''an aggravated felony'' requiring mandatory detention and exile from the United
States. Any crime involving an intent to defraud, even turnstile jumping, can
meet the threshold of ''moral turpitude,'' generally defined in case law as
''conduct that shocks the public conscience.''

Mr. Venant was luckier than most. An immigrant friend in New York, despite her
own fears of crossing the government, raised $1,750 to hire a Louisiana lawyer.
A Louisiana immigration judge, hearing Mr. Venant's long history of crime-free
work, was persuaded to grant him a rare one-time cancellation of deportation.

But he spent six months behind bars, and he returned to New York to find his
identity in tatters: Rikers Island officials had destroyed his green card,
driver's license and Social Security card, documents he needed to get work and
medical care for diabetes.

''It's a kind of kidnapping,'' said Mr. Venant, a slender, soft-spoken man who
lost 27 pounds during his incarceration and is still trying to rebuild his life.
''It's like sending people to a desert island.''

Since he arrived in New York in 1981, Mr. Venant has been part of the pool of
immigrant labor that buoys the city's restaurant booms. He had been an airline
ticket agent in Madagascar, educated on Camus and Victor Hugo, but he started
out washing dishes at Cafe Un Deux Trois in Times Square, and soon learned to
cook. He recalls working at places like Positano in the Flatiron district; Old
Homestead, one of the city's oldest steakhouses; Mickey Mantle's; and many
short-lived spots like the restaurant in the East 70's where his lobster ravioli
once won raves from John Gotti.

But after he spent time cooking at inns in Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Rhode
Island, his dreams of success faded. Last year he fell and was hospitalized for
a broken leg and undiagnosed diabetes. Broke and still unable to work full time,
he said, he took to eating the $2 lunch special offered in the backroom of a
Chinese fish market near the Canal Street subway station -- the station where a
police officer repeatedly arrested him for MetroCard fraud over a four-month
period.

As Mr. Venant tells it, at first he just swiped discarded cards in the hope that
some were still valid. Then someone showed him a widespread scam: folding an
empty card so that it registered a $2 fare at the turnstile. Eventually, he
admits, he sold a few swipes to other riders. But he maintains that his last
arrest, on Jan. 26, was undeserved, and that he pleaded guilty to get out of
jail sooner, unaware that two such convictions, let alone three, made him
deportable.

At Rikers, agents of Immigration and Customs Enforcement were waiting. By the
time Mr. Venant realized what was happening, it was almost too late to alert
anyone he knew. But he reached Hulda Claude, an old friend, who was shocked to
learn that he was in the Passaic County jail.

'''What did you do? Did you kill? Did you rob?''' she said she asked him.
''Knowing him all these years, I couldn't believe it.''

After visiting him and reviewing the deportation papers, Dr. Claude, who lives
in Inwood and has a dental practice in Brooklyn, was frightened. Also a longtime
green-card holder from Madagascar, she had a citizenship interview scheduled the
next month; other members of the Malagasy community advised her not to get
involved.

''Everybody's scared,'' she said. ''I was scared. How do you know if there's
some system that will connect my telephone number and his? If each time we talk
together, maybe somebody is listening in? You just don't know. And that's a land
of freedom.''

Within days, she received a panicked 4 a.m. call from Mr. Venant. Guards had
told him to pack for an unknown destination, possibly Pennsylvania or Louisiana.

He was one of about 150 shackled immigrants put on a Boeing 737. At Oakdale, he
said, they were plunged into a harsh prison life in which guards referred to
detainees as inmates and used ''the hole'' to punish such infractions as taking
a shower after 9 p.m. He worked in the kitchen for 10 cents an hour; at night,
his cellmate told him, he screamed and sobbed in his sleep.

Like many detainees, Mr. Venant had passed through the New Jersey jail without
being seen by Mr. Lonegan, the lone Legal Aid lawyer whose weekly legal clinics
function as a kind of triage. Because immigration proceedings are officially
civil, not criminal, those who cannot afford counsel have no right to a public
defender, and legal volunteers are scarce.

''Everybody loves asylum cases, everybody loves to defend the Buddhist monk,''
Mr. Lonegan said. ''But the guy who's got the green card, with a wife and child,
here for 30 years, and is being deported for a nonviolent offense, and the
punishment does not fit the crime, he does not get a lawyer.''

Even after Mr. Venant's release in July, his problems were not over. His
identity documents had been automatically destroyed at Rikers when he did not
pick them up within 120 days, correction officials said. Without them, he was
unable to gain access to Medicaid for medicine to keep his diabetes under
control, and was briefly hospitalized again.

Dr. Claude and her sister, a French teacher who lives in Brooklyn, have
temporarily taken him in while he works part time for a caterer and seeks a
steady job.

''It makes me feel sick and mad,'' Dr. Claude said. ''That could happen to
anyone of us.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andre Venant, who was nearly deported over a misdemeanor, on
his way to the Manhattan Detention Complex to try to recover some identification
papers. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Andre Venant, at the Manhattan Detention Complex trying to retrieve his papers.
His troubles began with a guilty plea to MetroCard fraud. (Photo by James
Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 15, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Backlog Blocks Immigrants Hoping to Vote

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words


Nearly half of the 126,000 immigrants in New York State who have applied to
become American citizens have lost their chance to vote in the presidential
election because of processing backlogs in the federal Department of Homeland
Security, according to a new study.

The New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella group and advocacy arm for more
than 150 community organizations serving newcomers, found that about 60,000
prospective citizens in New York were not naturalized in time for last week's
state voter registration deadline. The situation is similar, if not as severe,
in other states, including several swing states.

''New York is the worst by far,'' said Margaret McHugh, director of the
coalition. ''But the numbers in some battleground states are startling. This has
a potential impact on the election.''

In Florida, where the margin of victory in the 2000 presidential election was
537 votes, an estimated 25,000 new citizens would be eligible to vote if they
had been naturalized within the six months set as a national standard by
President Bush, the coalition calculated. Instead, the Miami office of United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services, now part of the Homeland Security
Department -- has a 21-month backlog.

In New Jersey, backlogs have shut out about 12,000 immigrants from voting, the
analysis found, and in Arizona, where processing now takes 13 months, about
6,500 would-be citizens were unable to vote.

The analysis used government figures for the number of pending cases, along with
an average approval rate of 75 percent. It applied the difference between actual
processing times and the six-month standard to estimate how many would have
become citizens before voter registration deadlines had the standard been met.
It concluded that New York had more would-be citizens shut out of the election
than any other state.

Even some who finally reached citizenship last week, after long delays,
discovered that they were not in time, said Vladimir Epshteyn, president of the
Russian-American Voters Educational League. He told how an elderly Brooklyn man
rushed to him for help filling out a voter registration card a few days ago. The
Brooklyn man and his wife had applied for citizenship at the same time, but for
reasons that were never clear, his application was delayed for more than a year
and a half after hers was granted, Mr. Epshteyn said.

''I had to tell him it was too late,'' Mr. Epshteyn said. ''He was so
disappointed -- even, I would say, depressed.''

Many factors contribute to delays in naturalization. Among those cited by the
coalition is a shortage of staff members to handle multiple security checks
required for every applicant. Each applicant must pass through at least three
layers of security checks, including an Interagency Border Information System
database known as IBIS; an F.B.I. fingerprint check, which is valid for only 15
months; and an F.B.I. name check.

According to the coalition, immigration officials say the F.B.I. takes a long
time to respond to name checks. ''This is dragging out the processing times for
every type of application,'' the coalition paper said.

Christopher Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
the agency was on track to reach the six-month processing goal in a little over
two years.

''We certainly acknowledge that there is a backlog right now and it is a backlog
that we are determined to eliminate by the end of 2006,'' he said yesterday.
''Our commitment is to getting citizenship and the right to vote to eligible
candidates as quickly as possible. We're making steady progress, but we're
obviously not there yet.''

But the coalition said chronic understaffing makes progress unlikely. ''Unless
Immigration Services offices receive the staff and funding that they
realistically need,'' the study concluded, ''there is little chance that
naturalization and other immigration services will improve anytime soon.''

Even as the backlog of cases grew, the number of immigrants sworn in as citizens
nationwide declined by 19 percent in the 2003 fiscal year, to 463,204, from
573,708 in 2002, according to the latest government figures.

One reason backlogs worsened in 2003, the coalition said, was that agents
responsible for handling naturalizations were temporarily reassigned to carry
out the Homeland Security Department's so-called ''special registration''
program, which involved the fingerprinting, photographing and interrogating more
than 83,000 immigrants from predominantly Arab and Muslim countries. The program
was suspended after it proved all but useless in finding terrorists.

At the Immigration Coalition, Ms. McHugh said the sense of bitterness and
disappointment among many citizens-in-waiting was palpable.

''They feel their voices have been silenced and their votes have been robbed,
even though it could well determine the outcome of the election,'' she said.
''They all take it seriously that they now live in a democracy. Unfortunately
the government has not taken seriously the obligation to include them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 16, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

'04 Voting Opportunity Remains For Newest Naturalized Citizens

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 358 words


An elderly Brooklyn immigrant eager to vote in the presidential election was
disappointed last week when Vladimir Epshteyn, president of the Russian-American
Voters Educational League, told him that he had become a citizen a little too
late: Oct. 8 was the deadline for voter registration in New York State.

But it turns out that the Brooklyn man and other brand-new citizens have a
little more time to register in the state, something that even advocates for
immigrants and federal immigration officials did not know.

Under an obscure section of New York State law, those sworn in as citizens after
the registration deadline are allowed to register in person at the Board of
Elections headquarters in their county until 10 days before the election, or
next Saturday, according to Jerome A. Koenig, a retired chief of staff of the
Assembly's Election Law Committee.

Mr. Koenig pointed out the section of the election law after reading an article
in The New York Times yesterday that included Mr. Epshteyn's anecdote about the
new citizen.

Officials at the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services said the
provision could affect about 2,000 new citizens in the New York metropolitan
area, all sworn in or scheduled to be sworn in as citizens between Oct. 11 and
Oct. 22.

It was welcome news to Dan Smulian, director of training and legal services at
the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella group for more than 150
community organizations serving newcomers from foreign countries. The coalition
has been sponsoring a voter registration drive for new citizens.

''This is a nice little loophole,'' Mr. Smulian said. ''It's not going to be an
enormous amount of people, but clearly it's going to make a few people very
happy.''

Yesterday, Mr. Epshteyn said he was trying to reach the disappointed would-be
voter in Brooklyn, an immigrant from the former Soviet Union, to tell him about
the opportunity.

''He would be very proud and emotionally satisfied if he gets to vote,'' Mr.
Epshteyn said, ''and especially if the person he will vote for will become the
president.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Vote in Florida: Neither a Bloc Nor a Lock

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUND;
Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1324 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 16


Defining the Hispanic vote in Florida used to be easy: Cuban immigrants,
Republican to the last. But just try boiling it down this election season.

A huge influx of Puerto Ricans, Mexicans and people from Central and South
America has diluted the political clout of Cubans, loosening the Republican lock
on the Hispanic vote. The state has an estimated 650,000 Puerto Ricans, for
example, a group that usually leans Democratic, up from 481,000 in 2000.

Colombians, Puerto Ricans and Dominicans are leaning toward Senator John Kerry,
polls suggest, though many have registered as independents and the Democrats do
not consider their vote a sure thing. Nicaraguans embrace President Bush, and
Cubans, while still overwhelmingly Republican, may throw some support to the
Democrats for a change.

Little wonder, then, that Florida's 3.2 million Hispanic residents -- the
state's largest minority group, tens of thousands of whom will be first-time
voters next month -- are among the most coveted voters in the nation this year.

''The message for both parties is, these people can go either way and you've got
to work it,'' said Jorge Mursuli, national director of Mi Familia Vota, a voter
registration group that signed up 73,000 Hispanic voters here this year, 40
percent as independents.

Both presidential candidates are feverishly courting the Florida vote as the
campaign comes down to the wire -- Mr. Bush held three rallies here Saturday and
will return Monday and Tuesday, while Mr. Kerry is to campaign in Florida on
Sunday and Monday.

Republicans and Democrats have scoured the state to find new citizens, focusing
on South Florida, where Central and South Americans have joined the large Cuban
contingent, and Central Florida, home to a fast-growing Puerto Rican population.
Even finding these potential voters is a challenge, strategists say, because
many now scatter through suburbs instead of clustering in urban neighborhoods
like Little Havana in Miami.

And unlike blacks, who vote more often as a bloc, Hispanics bring a patchwork of
priorities to the electoral table. Cubans care deeply about how Washington deals
with Fidel Castro -- though even they cannot be defined singularly this year, as
many newer arrivals are angry about Mr. Bush's Cuba policy. Puerto Ricans want
to know a candidate's stance on whether their homeland should become a state.
Racial discrimination is a big issue for Hispanics in Central Florida, Mr.
Mursuli said, while those in South Florida, whose Latino community is larger and
more established, do not experience it as much.

Both parties believe Mr. Bush will win the majority of Hispanic votes in
Florida, if only because the Cuban population remains so large -- about 450,000
registered voters, compared with about 200,000 for the second-biggest group,
Puerto Ricans. But Democratic strategists say their party is pushing for Mr.
Kerry to win perhaps 40 percent of the Hispanic vote, potentially a big enough
increase over the roughly 34 percent that Al Gore claimed in 2000 to assure a
Democratic victory here.

Both campaigns consider Puerto Ricans particularly up for grabs because so many
are newly registered and have not formed party loyalties. They supported Mr.
Gore in the 2000 presidential election, but went for Gov. Jeb Bush, a
Republican, in his 2002 re-election bid. The conventional wisdom is that the
governor appealed to Hispanics more than Bill McBride, his little-known
Democratic opponent, because he constantly visited their neighborhoods, speaking
fluent Spanish and presenting himself as their friend.

Though Jeb Bush has not done much stumping for his brother, the president, in
Hispanic communities -- or anywhere, for that matter, because the four
hurricanes that devastated large swaths of the state have preoccupied him this
campaign season -- he made several visits to Puerto Rican communities that were
hard hit by the storms, promising financial and emotional support.

And this year, President Bush has another Spanish-speaking surrogate courting
Florida Hispanics: Mel Martinez, a Cuban-American who is Mr. Bush's former
housing secretary and the Republican candidate in the race for the seat of
Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat who is retiring.

On Friday, the Bush-Cheney campaign said that Al Cardenas, a Cuban-American and
former Florida Republican Party chairman, would join Jeb Bush as a co-chairman
of the president's campaign here.

''He wanted to come in and help close the deal, especially as it relates to
Hispanics,'' said Alberto Martinez, a spokesman for the Bush campaign here.

''The presence of Jeb Bush and Martinez will make the president a very tough
competitor when it comes to fighting for that Central Florida vote,'' said
Sergio Bendixen, a Democratic pollster in Miami. ''The Democrats are fighting
there with issues, without any personalities. The Republicans are fighting with
personalities, with very few issues.''

The Bush campaign has run 10 television advertisements in Spanish, some touching
on issues like health care and education but others simply painting Mr. Bush as
a kindred spirit to Latinos. One plays a song describing him as ''someone who
knows my problems, my culture,'' adding, ''I'm with Bush because he knows my
family.''

Mr. Kerry has run fewer advertisements in Spanish, but the New Democratic
Network, a Democratic advocacy group, has filled in the gap. Among its
anti-Republican advertisements are two aimed at Cuban voters, many of whom have
condemned a new policy limiting them to one trip home every three years and
restricting cash transfers and gift packages to Cuba.

In one New Democratic Network ad, a Cuban-American woman asks: ''How long will
they keep brainwashing us? Cuba's problem is something that we, the Cubans, need
to resolve. And in the meantime, what are the Republicans doing to solve the
problems we have here?''

Still, even the most optimistic Democrats predict that only a small fraction of
Cuban voters will switch allegiances in November, especially because Mr.
Martinez is on the Republican ballot. In a poll last month for the New
Democratic Network, Mr. Bendixen found that 72 percent of Cuban voters supported
Bush, compared with 19 percent for Mr. Kerry and 9 percent either undecided or
for Ralph Nader.

The same poll, of 800 Hispanic voters in Florida, had 35 percent of non-Cuban
Hispanics supporting Mr. Bush, 59 percent Mr. Kerry and 6 percent undecided or
supporting Mr. Nader.

A new poll of 800 Florida Hispanics by The Washington Post, Univision and the
Tomas Rivera Policy Institute found Mr. Bush leading Mr. Kerry by 61 percent to
32 percent. Mr. Bush drew 81 percent of the Cuban vote, while Mr. Kerry won 42
percent of the Puerto Rican vote and 48 percent of Hispanics who were not Cuban
or Puerto Rican.

Random interviews in Miami on Friday demonstrated just how disparate the
Hispanic electorate can be. Belkys Gomez, a Cuban-American who works in billing
at the University of Miami, said she was still undecided but would probably vote
for Mr. Bush.

''The only thing that throws me towards Bush is that I know him,'' Ms. Gomez,
40, said. ''We have a saying in Spanish that says something like 'A bad well
known is better than a bad to be known.' No one really knows who Kerry is.''

Jose Lugo, a funeral director who is Puerto Rican, said he strongly preferred
Mr. Kerry. Of Mr. Bush, he said: ''I don't like the way he is conducting the
war. I was in the Army for seven years and I don't think he should have rushed
into war.''

Jeanine Escobar, a restaurant owner from Nicaragua, said she was absolutely for
Mr. Bush. ''He is against communism and I come from a country that knows
communism,'' she said. ''It's not that I dislike Kerry, but he doesn't have our
same ideology.''

 Articles in this series have examined electoral issues raised by Florida's role
in the 2000 presidential stalemate and the way the political parties are
focusing on the state in the 2004 race.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: FIGHTING FOR FLORIDA: The Latinos

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicole Murillo, center, a field worker for the Federal Affairs
Administration of Puerto Rico, a commonwealth agency that has registered 58,000
new voters in Florida since 2002, distributed election information to Aida
Fernandez, left, and Paul Vigers last weekend in Poinciana, Fla. (Photo by Chris
Garlington for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Hispanics in Florida''Both
presidential campaigns are heavily courting the Hispanic vote in Florida.
Cubans, clustered in South Florida, are overwhelmingly Republican, but may throw
some support to Democrats this year. Polls suggest Puerto Ricans, Colombians and
Dominicans are leaning toward John Kerry, though Democrats do not consider the
vote a given. Nicaraguans strongly prefer President Bush.POPULATION OF SOME
HISPANIC GROUPS, BY COUNTYGROUP: CubanTOTAL POPULATION: 846,000GROUP: Puerto
RicanTOTAL POPULATION: 481,000GROUP: MexicanTOTAL POPULATION: 358,000GROUP:
South AmericanTOTAL POPULATION: 316,000GROUP: Central AmericanTOTAL POPULATION:
219,000GROUP: DominicanTOTAL POPULATION: 76,000Maps of Florida highlighting
population of some hispanic groups, by county.(Source by Census Bureau)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 21, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Wave of Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 166 words



To the Editor:

Re '''Oops. I Told the Truth''' (column, Oct. 17):

Thomas L. Friedman needs to add a fourth wave and a fifth to the triplet of
demographic waves he warns about.

In addition to retiring American boomers, ambitious Asian boomers and
multiplying Arab populations, Americans need to be concerned about poorly
educated immigrants from all countries.

According to a new study by the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern
University in Boston, more than two million new immigrants found jobs in the
United States over the last three years while the employment of native-born
Americans declined.

Finally, there is the next generation of technology, which will eliminate jobs
that machines do faster and better.

In the last 30 years, the median wage of American workers declined and the
poverty rate increased. Anyone want to guess what will happen in the next 30
years?

Arnold Packer
Baltimore, Oct. 18, 2004

The writer was an assistant secretary of labor in the Carter administration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 21, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Voters, Their Concerns Diverse, Are Registered and Ready

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; New Citizens Answer Election's
Call; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words


Nicholas Christos slathered more sauce on an order of souvlaki and gestured from
his food cart toward the multiethnic throng in front of him on Main Street.

''I'm telling them, I wish they would wake up,'' he declared. ''They better
learn more about politics. Ten percent of the people control this country, and
the rest are dummies!''

But when Mr. Christos, who left his native Greece decades ago, confessed that he
himself had not yet decided which presidential candidate would get his vote, his
customers in Flushing, Queens, proved that they were wide awake.

''Better not be Nader!'' put in one young man with a flourish of his shish kebab
stick.

''That's too close, Kerry and Bush,'' chimed in Rene Franco, a Colombian
immigrant, his mouth still full of hot dog. ''Think about immigration policy.''

Like Mr. Christos and many of his customers, more than 1.2 million citizens of
voting age in New York are foreign born, the last census showed -- 27 percent
and growing. A recent registration drive by the New York Immigration Coalition
signed up 225,000 immigrant voters. But even among those who cannot vote,
immigrants and their advocates say, this election has captured their interest
like few in memory.

''Everybody's paying attention, trust me!'' said Narisha Mohammed, 29, a United
States citizen from Trinidad, who stopped to talk about immigrant anxieties on
her way to an evening shift at the front desk of the Queens Public Library's
Flushing branch.

Her views echoed the assessment of John Mollenkopf, a political scientist at the
Graduate Center of the City University of New York.

''They're diverse, just like native-born voters are diverse,'' he said of the
city's foreign-born residents. ''But various immigrant groups, even those that
are not Muslim or even South Asian, feel their status is somewhat more
precarious in the United States after 9/11.''

That kind of anxiety turned into laughter during an evening of Arab-American
stand-up comedy at a Midtown comedy club last week, as Dean Obeidallah and
Maysoon Zayid warmed up fans with political humor.

There were cracks like the one about Laura Bush and Teresa Heinz Kerry wearing
the same outfit at one of the debates. ''Somebody's stylist is going to
Guantanamo,'' Ms. Zayid deadpanned.

Mr. Obeidallah went on to lament the hardships of being Arab-American:
African-Americans get Black History Month, he said, and Hispanics get Hispanic
Awareness Week. ''And what do we get?'' he asked plaintively. ''Orange Alert.''

The evening was part of a four-day Arab-American cultural festival that was held
in November last year but was deliberately moved up this year before the
election, Mr. Obeidallah said.

''It's not just about selling 700 tickets, it's about organizing the
community,'' he explained, describing himself as a John Kerry supporter. In
2000, he said, American Muslims went overwhelmingly for George W. Bush; this
year polls show them swinging to Mr. Kerry.

In some quarters, of course, language or cultural divides make the election seem
far away. In a popular Pakistani restaurant in a basement adjacent to a
Manhattan mosque on West 29th Street, for example, the patrons and staff showed
surprise on Oct. 13 when a visitor asked if the television set would be tuned to
the final presidential debate later that evening.

''We only get local channels,'' one of the servers said, as customers filed in
from evening prayers.

''Local channels -- local South Asian channels,'' one of the diners clarified
with a smile, pointing out that the old movie playing on the wide-screen
television was a Bollywood melodrama.

For many immigrants, however, the presidential debates were simply not to be
missed. Francois Darbouze, 51, a New York cabdriver who lives in New Jersey and
hails from Haiti, not only planned to watch the final presidential debate, he
also was taping every word.

''Some countries are in trouble and they hardly mention it,'' he complained,
referring to Haiti's latest hardships.

''The father didn't do anything for my country,'' he added, referring to the
first President Bush. ''This one, he did not appreciate what Clinton had been
doing.''

But old world loyalties only go so far, warned Akin Talbi, an Algerian immigrant
who is a photographer and drives a pedicab near Times Square for $1 a minute.
Mr. Talbi, 38, complained that the imam at his mosque had urged the faithful to
vote neither for Mr. Bush nor Mr. Kerry.

''I didn't like it because they're mixing religion and politics,'' Mr. Talbi
said. ''Last time they pushed people to vote for Bush. Now they're telling me to
vote against Bush.''

''Maybe I'm going to vote for Bush,'' he added in a defiant tone.

Later the same evening, a debate-watching session organized by the Hunter
College Israel Public Affairs Committee drew more than 125 with a giant screen,
home-baked cookies and ''Campaign 2004'' T-shirts. Many in the crowd were Jewish
immigrants, including Steven Yuniver, 19, the president of the sponsoring group,
and Anna Blyakher, 20, the chairwoman.

''I can't vote yet,'' lamented Ms. Blyakher, who left Ukraine for Brooklyn five
years ago. ''But I would vote for Bush. Bush is more there for Israel.''

Mr. Yuniver, who was 5 when his family moved to New York from Odessa, said he
would cast his first vote ever for John Kerry. As red, white and blue light from
the screen flickered over the audience, Mr. Yuniver warmed to the theme, citing
the need for jobs, universal health care and a different way of dealing with
Iraq.

''John Kerry was for the war,'' he asserted. ''But he would have done it the way
Clinton got rid of Slobodan Milosevic.''

Other immigrant students in the audience were more concerned with policies that
shape their own lives.

''What about us?'' asked Inez Moran, a 41-year-old freshman from the Dominican
Republic, complaining like many immigrants that neither candidate had said
enough about immigration policy. ''The immigrant now is the one who is
suffering. In our family we have a case of someone who lived here 20 years, paid
taxes, and he was deported.''

Tynisha James, 27, a media major from St. Kitts who become a citizen in 1996,
confessed that in the last election she was so ambivalent about the candidates
that she did not vote. ''I'll be voting for the first time,'' Ms. James declared
after the debate, ''and I'm excited.''

Nationally, newly naturalized citizens accounted for more than half the net
growth in persons registered to vote between 1996 and 2000, according to a new
report by the Immigration Policy Center, a research organization affiliated with
groups that have supported easing restrictions on legal immigration. But out of
10.7 million adult new citizens in the United States in 2000, only 6.2 million
were registered to vote and 5.4 million actually voted, the report said.

On the last stop of the No. 7 train, in the markets along Main Street in Queens,
anyone who can speak enough English to voice a political opinion seems ready to
offer it these days.

Eunju Jung, from Korea, was no exception. ''I don't like Bushie,'' she said,
inadvertently using what Jenna Bush has called her parents' favorite endearment.
''From Bushie, every policy is getting worse, is getting very strict.''

Some immigrants who cannot vote feel so strongly about the election that they
are working as volunteers to get others to the polls. One is Cynthia Neita, 42,
a homecare worker and 1199 union activist who has been living out of a suitcase
in Ohio since April.

In a telephone interview from Cincinnati, Ms. Neita, a Jamaican who usually
lives in New Jersey, said she was so disappointed that her citizenship
application was stuck in the Department of Homeland Security naturalization
backlog that she volunteered for a union program to register new voters in swing
states.

''I'm doing door knocking,'' she said. ''I'm doing registration. I'm doing phone
banking. I'm doing outreach in the churches in the black community here. I
decided to do this because I wanted to make a difference in somebody's life.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Yuniver of the Hunter College Israel Public Affairs
Committee talked to students during the last presidential debate. (Photo by
James Estrin/The New York Times)
Nicholas Christos, from Greece, hears the opinions of his customers in Queens.
(Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Joe DeRosa, performing last week at an Arab-American comedy show in Manhattan,
was one of many comedians to use political humor. (Photo by Michelle V.
Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Lifelong Struggles

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 277 words



To the Editor:

I am totally stymied by the attitude of the Cambodian immigrants described in
''Fleeing the Killing Fields, but Not Escaping,'' by Anemona Hartocollis (Coping
column, Oct. 17), and all those who group themselves into the same state of
miasma.

As survivors of the Holocaust, my immediate family and I were fortunate to
reunite at the end of that era. Our extended family did not survive.

We arrived in the United States in 1946 with $19.80 and the ragged clothes on
our backs. We did have relatives here, too poor to be of financial aid, but
wonderful in giving moral support. Most important, we arrived with the premise
that we must stand on our own feet without dependency on private sources or
government aid.

Within four days after arrival, both of my parents found work: my father in a
brush factory washing hogs' bristles in boiling oil, my mother as a maid in an
elegant household on Central Park. My brother found work in a plastics factory.
I was a high school student who worked four hours per day after school, took
care of the household, did the shopping.

Was it a fun period? No! Was it a beginning to a life of freedom? Yes!

We did not look back. We did not feel sorry for ourselves. We worked, and worked
hard. The ''thank yous'' we offered were for moral support, not for welfare or
Medicaid.

Let us not feel sorry for the new immigrants, no matter what tragedies are in
their background. Let us give them moral support, let us assist them to develop
a work ethic and take pride in being self-supporting. Let us help them learn the
language of the land -- which is English, contrary to the belief of many.

Henry Adler
Upper West Side

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 28, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

E-Mail Offer Is Scheme To Defraud Visa Seekers

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 546 words


The e-mail message is sprinkled with telltale exclamation marks and
misspellings, but to foreigners yearning to live legally in the United States,
it may seem like a dream come true: ''Congratulation, you have won DV-2004-1005
USA National Visa Lottery!!!''

In fact, the electronic message, which goes on to ask for contact information, a
photograph and $349.67 in fees, is just the latest swindle to hit would-be
winners of the green card visa lottery conducted yearly by the United States
State Department.

Applications for the 2006 lottery, officially known as the Diversity Visa
Lottery, will be accepted electronically on a State Department Web site,
www.dvlottery.state.gov, from Nov. 5 through Jan. 7. Last year was the first
time that Internet applications were required, and nearly 6 million applicants
competed for a chance to apply for 50,000 immigrant visas.

The lottery is intended to promote immigration from countries that do not send
large numbers of immigrants to the United States. Immigrants are ineligible for
the lottery if they come from countries that have sent more than 50,000 people
to the United States in the last five years, including Canada, China, Colombia,
the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Mexico, Pakistan,
the Philippines, Russia, South Korea, the United Kingdom and Vietnam.

Swindles like the phony e-mail message seem to proliferate during lottery
season, said Angela Aggeler, a spokeswoman for the department's Bureau of
Consular Affairs. Among the frauds recently brought to her attention, she said,
were pop-up windows that might help swindlers capture the e-mail addresses of
potential applicants searching for advice.

''While we're certainly aware of these,'' she said, ''they are virtually
impossible to control and to track completely, though we certainly work with law
enforcement.''

She pointed to a warning in red letters on the department's Web site, and a link
to the Federal Trade Commission, which has prosecuted fraudulent Web sites in
the past. Its consumer alert is titled, ''Read the Rules, Avoid the Rip-Offs.''

''It is so bad,'' Ms. Aggeler said. ''It's really taking advantage of these
people, the poor applicants who very much want to come to the United States. All
we can do is get out the information.''

Officials point out that there is no fee to enter the lottery, though legitimate
services may charge something to help with the application. Applicants selected
in the random drawing are notified by mail and only by the Department of State,
Kentucky Consular Center -- certainly not in an electronic message like the one
signed ''albert philip'' govt--visa--lottery@she.com.

That phony e-mail message lists a State Department address, but goes on to say
that ''for faster processing,'' information should be sent to mariam
abacha@galmail.co.za. -- a name that has become so notorious that a debunking
Web site called Scam Central asks, ''Will the real Mariam Abacha please stand
up?''

But apparently even the swindlers have sometimes been stung. ''We accept Western
Union Money Transfer as the only payment method due to some reasons from our
past experiences,'' the fraudulent message says. ''Credit card is not
acceptable, please.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Farmingville'

BYLINE: By DANA STEVENS

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 6; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Film in
Review; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 476 words



Opens today in Manhattan
Directed by Carlos Sandoval and Catherine Tambini
Not rated, 78 minutes

 In the summer of 2000, amid growing tensions between longtime residents and
illegal-immigrant day laborers in the Long Island town of Farmingville, two
young Mexican men were lured to a job site by white supremacist youths and
beaten nearly to death. Many documentaries might be content to begin and end
with that grim story, but ''Farmingville,'' a new one produced and directed by
Carlos Sandoval and Catherine Tambini, goes much further, taking the attempted
murders as a starting point for larger questions about hatred, tolerance and the
future of labor and immigration law in this country.

In the late 1990's, some 1,500 workers from Mexico flooded Farmingville
(population: 15,000), lured by the promise of work in the contracting,
landscaping and service industries. Soon residents were complaining about
overcrowded rental housing -- up to 30 men in one -- and the packs of men
standing on street corners, waiting for work.

One disgruntled resident, Margaret Bianculli-Dyber, started a group to protest
the immigrants' presence; other groups quickly sprang up to protect the workers'
rights, including an informal union organized by the laborers. The film soberly
documents how legitimate quality-of-life grievances like overcrowding and noise
can degenerate into racially inflected intolerance.

As Ms. Bianculli-Dyber's efforts draw support from extremist hate groups
nationwide, verbal and physical harassment of the workers escalates, and the
residents argue bitterly with their local legislators and one another. Even the
beating incident of 2000 fails to shock the community into a peaceful solution;
rather, each side uses the horrific event as further evidence for its position.

Though it has the slight, informal feel of a made-for-television documentary
shot on video, ''Farmingville'' is an unusually sensitive and sophisticated
piece of investigative journalism (to gain their subjects' trust, Ms. Tambini
and Mr. Sandoval lived and worked in Farmingville for nine months during the
filming.)

In 78 minutes, the film manages to do justice to the experience of the newly
arrived immigrants (who, in one of the film's few heartening moments, gather for
a morale-boosting soccer game), to the complexities of federal immigration
policy, and even to the often-disturbing views of the quality-of-life
contingent.

There is occasionally some subtle irony in the filmmakers' choice of frame (as
when Ms. Bianculli-Dyber is interviewed in front of her collection of grinning
troll dolls) but they generally steer clear of editorializing about their
subjects, no matter how extreme the views they voice. If everyone listened to
one another with such patient even-handedness, films like ''Farmingville'' might
not need to be made at all.   DANA STEVENS


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from ''Farmingville,'' about illegal immigrants on Long
Island.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving Workers Their Due

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 340 words


The economic symmetry is so perfect, it's a wonder anyone complains. Suburban
Americans want their lawns mowed, hedges trimmed and roofs replaced. Latino
immigrants are eager to work, and willingly accept great risk, loneliness and
inconvenience to fulfill our needs.

But somehow this makes us feel like the victims. We feel indignant toward those
we assume are here illegally. We are spooked by large gatherings of men in
public places, like Columbus Park in Mamaroneck. We call the police to enforce
rules against double-parking, loitering, urinating on the street or sleeping in
the park. Many of us just wish the men would all leave, but they do not, and the
problem festers.

There are, of course, legitimate reasons to object to the status quo. Local
governments, whose responsibility is to ensure order, suffer the consequences of
an inconsistent federal immigration policy. Contractors who skirt the rules
distort the market place for those who check ID's and pay insurance and taxes.
The laborers themselves are most at risk in the underground economy.

But while the frustrations of local residents are real, a community that wants
the moral standing to confront them should first pass a test of basic decency.
That means creating a place for day laborers to meet in safety and minimal
comfort -- a permanent hiring site with a roof, toilets and a place to rest.

This does not require vast reserves of money, courage or compassion. Pragmatic
leaders have set up hiring sites in Port Chester and Ossining and across Long
Island, defying the toxic resentments of anti-immigrant groups. Mamaroneck is
among the communities that have not. Its mayor, Philip J. Trifiletti, justifies
his inaction with a false appeal to fairness -- he says he wants to help
laborers who live in the village but not those from somewhere else, and adds
that other towns should share the burden. Having drawn a specious distinction
between worthy and unworthy laborers, and unwilling to go it alone, Mamaroneck
helps no one.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Dirt, Mexican Grit: New York's Newest Farmers

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: PINE ISLAND, N.Y., Oct. 24


It was the end of harvest season and Martin Rodriguez had plenty of work to do.
There were chilies to pick, rows of crops to clean and soil to turn over.

First, though, the farmer had to get to his farm.

So just as he had done every day for the last six months, Mr. Rodriguez began
the drive from his apartment in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, for the two-hour trip to
the six-acre farm he runs in Orange County.

Like other farms in the Hudson Valley, Mr. Rodriguez's produces lettuce,
brussels sprouts and tomatoes. But alongside stand neat rows of four kinds of
tomatillos and Mexican herbs with names like ''tlalpanche,'' ''alache'' and
''pipicha'' -- none of which have an English translation.

The specialty produce earned Mr. Rodriguez near-celebrity status at farmers'
markets in East Harlem, Jackson Heights and Sunset Park, where on good days he
sold as much as $1,500 in produce.

Mr. Rodriguez has become a success story for the New Farmer Development Project,
a program run by New York City's Greenmarket program to encourage Hispanic
immigrants to farm in the region. The program, which started in 2000, runs a
training course to teach immigrants who have agricultural experience how to
navigate the farming industry.

Although 85 people have completed the course, only eight, including Mr.
Rodriguez, are running farms in the region. About a dozen others are working on
training farms on Staten Island and in Brooklyn or helping on other farms in the
area.

The city's program is tapping into a demographic shift taking place across the
country as a growing number of immigrant farmers change the face of agriculture,
experts say. The number of Hispanic workers who rely on farming for their
livelihood has nearly doubled to 29,050 in the last decade, according to the
United States Department of Agriculture. Almost all of the increase can be
attributed to immigrants, said Rachel Dannefer, the Brooklyn-based coordinator
of the National Immigrant Farming Initiative, which collects information from
some 20 programs nationwide that promote farming by immigrants.

Still, trying to succeed as a farmer has not been easy for Mr. Rodriguez.

The commute, usually done in the dark hours before sunrise, has taken a toll.
''There's never enough sleep,'' Mr. Rodriguez said as he drove in his van to the
farm recently.

He is unlikely to make much of a profit this year. Each trip to the farm has
meant spending $50 on gas, and there is a stack of bills in his apartment yet to
be paid. He is not sure how much money he will have left after he pays his
bills.

The list of uncertainties is long. Will he have to find another job for the
winter? Will he rent the same land next year? Will he be able to rent or buy a
tractor? Will he be able to find a place to live closer to the farm?

''We only need two things to make it better,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''A machine
and a house.''

Just a few days after completing the city's 12-week training program in April,
Mr. Rodriguez told Kate Granger, the program's director, that he wanted to start
a 10-acre farm on the land in Pine Island. The program maintains a list of
farmers in the region willing to rent part of their land. Mr. Rodriguez pays
$250 an acre in rent for the season.

''I really wasn't sure it was possible,'' Ms. Granger said. ''It's an incredibly
tough business that needs so much planning.''

She persuaded him to limit the farm to six acres, and Mr. Rodriguez heeded
advice about laying down black plastic sheeting to protect the crops, but he
ignored warnings that he was planting seedlings too early.

By the time Mr. Rodriguez began selling his produce at the markets, Ms. Granger
was convinced that his determination was paying off. Customers at farmers'
markets would start lining up at his booth, called RodriMex, by 7 a.m., two
hours before he would arrive with the freshest produce. ''There was no other
place for them to go,'' said Garencia, Mr. Rodriguez's wife, who often sold some
produce before Mr. Rodriguez arrived with the day's latest pickings.

The crops her husband and his brother, Pedro Rodriguez, were growing were the
same vegetables and herbs that she had cooked with before she immigrated from
Puebla, Mexico, about 16 years ago.

At the markets, Ms. Rodriguez would arrange the produce and explain to customers
how to use the products. Three of her daughters and some of her nieces, who
range from 7 to 12 years old, would help translate.

It was not difficult for Mr. Rodriguez to decide what kind of crops to plant.
John Ameroso, an educator from Cornell University's cooperative extension
service who teaches the 12-week training class, told him that familiar crops
would start a customer base. The additions were a matter of pride.

''I grew them because I'm Mexican,'' he said with a proud grin. ''I knew the
other Mexicans would buy them. But I didn't think the 'gringos' would like them
so much.''

On nights when they had to water the crops at 2 a.m., the Rodriguez brothers
would sleep in the van on blankets spread out on black rubber mats. They would
awaken before dawn to gather the crops that must be sold the same day they were
harvested.

In Sunset Park, Ms. Rodriguez would worry that her husband might fall asleep on
the road. ''I'd tell him just to sleep for a few hours, that it would make him
feel better, but he doesn't always do that,'' she said.

This year there were no other options. There are no houses for rent in the area,
and the family cannot afford to buy one.

In addition to the agricultural challenges that all farmers face, immigrant
farmers, many of whom do not speak English, can find it difficult to get loans
to purchase land or a home. Several have illegally crossed the border from
Mexico and drive without a license.

Mr. Rodriguez seems certain that he will farm again next year, even if he must
continue the grueling commute.

''How can you stop when there are all these people who believe in you?'' he
said. As Martin and Pedro Rodriguez picked the last of the jalapenos, two of
their daughters trailed behind them, collecting green and red peppers in their
own baskets. Martin Rodriguez took off his white cowboy hat and fanned himself.

''That's it, the season is over,'' Pedro Rodriguez said. Martin filled the van
with bushels of chiles and a few carrots, then started the engine for the
two-hour drive.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin Rodriguez ending a day on his six acres of leased
farmland in Orange County, and facing the two-hour commute back home to
Brooklyn.
 Along with the usual crops like carrots and lettuce, Mr. Rodriguez has grown
Mexican chili peppers, right, for sale in farmers' markets. (Photographs by John
Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inmate Convicted in '86 Prison Murder Gets New Trial

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: PLATTSBURGH, N.Y., Nov. 1


A county judge on Monday penciled in a Dec. 6 date for a new trial in the case
of an illegal Chinese immigrant whose conviction for the murder of a fellow
inmate in 1986 was overturned by a state appellate court last month.

The immigrant, David Wong, was convicted of fatally stabbing Tyrone Julius at
the Clinton state prison in Dannemora, about 17 miles west of here .

Despite the lack of physical evidence or obvious motive, Mr. Wong, who was
already serving time for armed robbery, was found guilty based on the testimony
of two witnesses, and sentenced to 25 years to life in prison.

Mr. Wong's first significant victory came on Oct. 21, when five New York State
appellate judges overturned the murder conviction and returned the case to
Clinton County Court. The decision was the culmination of a long campaign for
Mr. Wong, whose cause was first taken up by Asian-American advocates shortly
after his 1987 conviction. Articles in The New York Times and inquiries by a
Manhattan private investigator, coupled with the reversal of testimony by a
crucial witness, raised doubts about Mr. Wong's guilt.

Judge Timothy J. Lawliss announced on Monday that jury selection for Mr. Wong
would start Dec. 6. Since Mr. Wong, 42, has fulfilled his sentence for the
robbery conviction, he is now being held at the county jail on $100,000 bail,
awaiting the next phase, be it trial, deportation or freedom.

In an interview after the 15-minute proceeding, Richard E. Cantwell, the Clinton
County district attorney, who did not handle the original trial, said his office
was taking the prospect of a new trial ''quite seriously.'' But he added, ''what
bothered me was the physical evidence. There are so many things that I have to
be satisfied with before I go to trial.''

In an interview outside the courthouse, Jaykumar A. Menon, a lawyer for Mr.
Wong, promised to file a motion soon to dismiss what he called a ''farce'' of a
case. ''All the evidence is clearly on our side,'' he said, surrounded by local
supporters and relatives of Mr. Wong from New York City. But even if the charges
are dismissed, Mr. Wong faces another legal hurdle: He could be immediately
deported to China upon his release.

''His situation is not great,'' Mr. Menon said. ''We're working hard, but I
think it's likely that he'll go back.''

To prosecutors and correction officials, the case has been straightforward,
resting on the witness who did not recant -- a well-regarded correction officer
named Richard LaPierre. At the first trial, he testified that he saw the
stabbing from an 80-foot tower 120 yards away.

To critics, though, Mr. Wong has been a scapegoat in a criminal justice system
biased against poor immigrants. And given the economic importance of the prison
industry in northern New York, and the fact that Judge Lawliss and Mr. Cantwell
used to be law partners, these critics are now worried whether Mr. Wong will be
able to get a fair trial. But in a recent interview with The New York Law
Journal, Mr. Cantwell said his professional relationship with Judge Lawliss
ended almost four years ago, and that most lawyers in this upstate city know
each other.

The odyssey for Mr. Wong, a former Chinatown bus boy who was serving 81/3. to 25
years for his part in the robbery of his boss's home on Long Island, began on a
snowy afternoon in March 1986, when someone buried a 5-inch shank in Mr.
Julius's neck. Of the 70 to 100 inmates in the area, only Mr. Wong and an inmate
from Hong Kong, Tse Kin Cheung, were searched. Investigators found neither blood
nor a weapon on either man. Still, Mr. Wong was convicted, on the basis of
testimony from Mr. LaPierre and Peter DellFava, another inmate.

After Mr. Cheung began writing letters to Asian-American community leaders,
protesting that Mr. Wong had been framed, a group of New York City activists
formed the David Wong Support Committee. Eventually, fresh anecdotal evidence
emerged, including statements from Mr. Julius's widow supporting Mr. Wong's
arguments, and from former inmates saying that Mr. Julius was murdered by a
rival, Nelson Gutierrez, who died in 2000.

Last October, Judge Lawliss rejected a motion for a new trial, saying that Mr.
DellFava, who had since been released from prison, seemed insincere and the
inmates' testimony ''preposterous.'' But Mr. Wong's lawyers appealed. In a
five-page order, the judges, while acknowledging that county judges are
''generally accorded great deference,'' said that Mr. DellFava's reversal came
across as credible, given ''his apparent belief that he could be prosecuted for
perjury.'' They questioned the accuracy of Mr. LaPierre's testimony. And they
said the stab wound to Mr. Julius should have ''created a sufficient amount of
blood to have splattered over the perpetrator.''

Since the decision, Mr. Wong's lawyers have been unable to track down Mr.
DellFava. But if he does surface, he may be subject to a perjury charge, Mr.
Cantwell said.

Mr. Wong did not say anything at the proceeding, but smiled at the two dozen
supporters who packed the courtroom. These included Fei Yeung, Mr. Wong's niece,
who lives in Bushwick, Brooklyn, and is an engineering student at City College.

Ms. Yeung had a lot of things to say to Mr. Wong. But later, when she saw him
outside the courthouse, her eyes moistened, and her voice cracked. The only
thing she could say was ''uncle,'' in their native Fuzhou dialect.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Wong's case has been a rallying cry for many activists.
(Photo by Michael J. Okoniewski)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

My Hands Are Tied

BYLINE: By Bryan Lonegan as told to Paige Williams

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 98

LENGTH: 848 words


I can't get the man's cries for help out of my head. ''Please help me, you have
to help me, what will happen to my family?'' I tried to get him to calm down,
and it didn't work. I simply had to hang up. Then a woman called from her
hospital bed at Columbia Presbyterian. She had been unconscious for several
days. When she woke up, her friends told her that her husband had been taken by
immigration. ''I need him,'' she told me. These tragedies are haunting. I have
one client whose parents, ethnic Albanians, fled Yugoslavia before she was born.
She's been here for 35 of her 36 years. She was convicted of some drug felonies,
went to prison, came out clean and stayed that way. But immigration authorities
still arrested her, and she was ordered removed. There are too many of these
stories every day.

I'm an attorney with the Legal Aid Society, the only free legal-service
organization in New York City that provides assistance to people who are in
''removal proceedings,'' what used to be called deportation, because of a
criminal conviction. There are crimes people should be deported for -- murder,
robbery, rape -- but the way the law is written now, people are being deported
for shoplifting or for jumping subway turnstiles or for possession of a joint of
marijuana. New York's detainees are held in county jails in New Jersey. There
are several hundred immigration detainees in these jails at any given moment.
And there's only one Legal Aid attorney available. That's me.

These guys all want to tell me their life stories, but I have to cut to the
chase with potential clients and figure out what legal remedies they have. Most
have none. Detainees call me collect from jails, and I give them advice. My
hotline number is now in every jail cell between here and Pennsylvania.

Here's the problem: before 1996, if an immigrant was living in this country
lawfully and he committed a crime that made him eligible for removal, he could
go in front of a judge and tell his story, and the judge would balance the
positives with the seriousness of the crime. If the judge thought you deserved a
second chance, your green card was restored. I'm talking about people who have
lived in the United States, some of them all their lives, who are about as
American as anybody else. Then some pretty ugly anti-immigrant forces got
together -- organizations out to limit immigrants' rights or declare a
moratorium on immigrants altogether -- and got legislation passed that
essentially deprived immigration judges of their ability to review cases. More
and more green-card holders are now subject to mandatory removal.

In 1986 we deported just under 2,000 immigrants per year for criminal offenses.
Last year that number was 79,000. The Department of Homeland Security posts this
on their Web site; they're proud of this. Many of the people being deported have
lived here for a long time. Some came here as babies and now have spouses and
children. Some have never even seen their native countries. When I was a
criminal-defense attorney, I used to think I was working for the most publicly
despised clientele. Criminal defendants, nobody cares about them. But immigrants
who are criminal defendants -- people care even less.

Countries have a right to control their borders, but our policies have become so
harsh, I think it's beyond a question of national sovereignty or even security
and has become a real human rights crisis. It gets me very frustrated when
people say, ''You do the crime, you pay the consequences,'' because for many
people, deportation means exile. It can mean they'll be separated permanently
from their spouses, children, parents, siblings. It means whatever property
they've owned here is lost; Social Security benefits too. Justice Brandeis once
said that deportation is the loss of all that makes life worth living. It's
true.

You've got to remember that Mexican farm workers didn't drive planes into the
sides of those buildings. Terrorists did. Our lives are not being threatened by
Dominican bodega owners or Guatemalan day laborers. I cringe when I hear people
using 9/11 for their own agendas. They should meet with some of the people
who've been the victims of their self-serving campaigns. They should talk to my
client's 14-year-old daughter and explain to her why she shouldn't cut herself
up.

I used to be able to leave my work at the office. But now when I'm with my
family, my mind is constantly on what I am going to do Monday for this person. I
wake up in the middle of the night thinking about a client. I used to paint
portraits. I don't do that anymore. I don't have the time. Fortunately I have a
very loving, supportive wife, but every now and then she has got to say, ''Hey,
pay attention to your son.'' I sometimes come home from work, eat and go right
back to jail to meet with clients. In the beginning, I could detach, but when
you start getting calls from a guy who's crying uncontrollably and all he's
talking about is his kids -- you know? When you have that happen time and time
again, it breaks down the professional wall I had built.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Bob Hambly)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 11, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Brooklyn: Judge Allows Bail In Terror Case

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by George James

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 136 words


A federal judge ruled yesterday that a Syrian-born doctor can remain free on
bail despite prosecutors' allegations that he has ties to a suspected Qaeda
associate and kept blueprints of an overpass in Washington at his home.
Prosecutors had asked the judge to jail Hassan Faraj because declassified
information revealed his ties to the Benevolence International Foundation, which
they called a charity front for Al Qaeda.

They said Dr. Faraj also helped the Qaeda associate enter the United States and
had shredded blueprints in a bag in his apartment. The defense lawyer, Stanley
Cohen, said there was no proof of terrorism-related activity by Dr. Faraj, who
had been obeying the conditions of his bail since his June arrest on an
immigration charge.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 54 words


An article on Wednesday about a Supreme Court decision that driving under the
influence of alcohol was not a ''crime of violence'' for which an immigrant
could automatically be deported misspelled the name of the law firm that
represented the defendant, a Haitian immigrant, without charge. It is King &
Spalding -- not Kind.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 19, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: A Residency Plea For 9/11 Relatives

BYLINE: By Mike McIntire (NYT); Compiled by George James

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 108 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has asked the Bush administration to allow relatives
of immigrants who died in the Sept. 11 attacks to remain in the United States
while they seek permanent residency status. In a Nov. 11 letter to the
administration that was released by the mayor's office yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg
said a reprieve from deportation that had been granted by the USA Patriot Act of
2001 had ''long expired, leaving families again deeply vulnerable.'' The letter
continued, ''Approximately 100 spouses and children are in this desperate
condition and need immediate immigration relief to move forward with their
lives.''   Mike McIntire (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE; a special
issue; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 126 words


NEW YORK is being re-formed, and its face is increasingly foreign. Today,  about
40 of every 100 New Yorkers were born abroad, a percentage unmatched since the
1920's. Yet, although much is written about the cultures, problems and impact of
todays immigrants, their own voices are often but a murmur in the city's din.
Here are the stories of 10 transplanted New Yorkers, all under 40, told from
their own personal, often poignant, perspectives, as well as voices culled from
a dozen immigrant gathering places around the city. When this modern surge of
immigrants reinvents New York, as did their Irish, Jewish and Italian forebears
a century ago, it is words like these that will be their Hester Street, their
Lower East Side, their history, their myths.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'A Lifetime Of Living Half a Life'

BYLINE: By GEORGE SARRINIKOLAOU.

George Sarrinikolaou is the author of ''Facing Athens: Encounters With the
Modern City.''

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 937 words


IMMIGRATING to New York from Athens, my father promised, would make us rich. As
a boy, I never fully believed him. Still, I welcomed the fantasy, not so much
because I yearned for more toys or better food than my working-class parents
provided me in Greece, but so that they might stop fighting.

The lack of money was a nightly topic for my parents and the spark that set them
off. Their futile form of accounting began after dinner. Seated around the
kitchen table with its flowered vinyl tablecloth, my mother was obligated to
report her day's spending to my father, while he, pen in hand, scribbled the
figures across stained paper napkins. The tension, already high, mounted if
she'd spent too much, or if his calculations showed that she ought to have more
money left than the amount found in her purse.

On the worst evenings, he became furious and hit her, sometimes slapping her on
the head or whipping her indiscriminately with his belt. Other nights, she
protected herself by retreating to my room and putting me on her lap before he
had a chance to strike.

In my recollections of these evenings, I am invisible. The only part of me that
memory has preserved is my disembodied vision. I know that a young boy with
olive skin and brown hair, the one I recognize in photographs of myself,
completed those scenes of violence.

If going to America would mean the end of their fights, I would go without
protest. As it turned out, my parents did stop fighting shortly after our
arrival in New York in 1980, when I was 10, but not because they became rich.
The difficulties of making a life in a foreign city made my father realize that
wealth would come, if at all, only after much struggle. So some 40 days into our
immigration, he decided that we were going back. He would return first to find a
new job, and we would join him later. My mother agreed to the plan, but never
carried out her part of it. Two years later the divorce was official, and my
mother, my baby sister and I had become New Yorkers.

We were poor but safely ensconced in our new city, so the anxiety that had
marked my first decade of life eased. From the drab housing project where we
lived in Astoria, Queens, we would stroll to the East River and take in the
panorama of the Manhattan skyline, visible proof of the distance that now
separated us from our Athenian past.

Still, while I couldn't understand it then, immigration heightened the effects
of the violence I had experienced. Under the stress of being cut off from
everything that was familiar, the stress of having to learn a new language, of
being told at age 10 that I was the man of the house, I reacted as I used to
when I witnessed my parents' fights. I pulled back from everyday life, becoming
an observer, waiting, as if life would begin in earnest sometime later.

On the surface, I behaved like any other boy in New York: I went to school; I
played basketball in the park; I kissed a girl in the movie theater. When I was
older, I went to college, I became a Jets fan. As a journalist, I reported on
everything from City Hall to Wall Street. But I never let myself become fully a
part of my life, feeling that it held the same potential for horror I had seen
at home.

For years, I identified this separation from life with being an immigrant. I was
a stranger here, I told myself. I would never belong to this city. My true home,
I would think, was Athens, and it was there I would return after college, then
after graduate school, when I had a little more job experience, by the time I
was 30. For years, I remained apart in that fantasy, living with my mother
instead of renting an apartment of my own, never buying a car, staying single. I
did nothing that might solidify my ties with New York, even as the years of
living in the city began to outnumber the years I had lived in Athens.

Paradoxically, it was immigration, which for so long separated me from living a
full life, that afforded me the distance from which to look at myself more
critically. Having entered the 25th year of my immigration, I understand that my
retreat from life began not upon arriving in New York, but long before, in one
of the indistinct Athens apartments we occupied, as my father raised his hand to
strike my mother. There I was again, careful not to make a sound, frozen in
place. I know that, at the time, the withdrawal was a way to survive. The legacy
of such a survival, though, has been a lifetime of living half a life.

Each day, I struggle to put an end to that legacy. Whether in New York, or
Athens, or anywhere else, I tell myself that I must embrace life. I don't long
to assimilate, for I prize the intellectual freedom of the outsider. Yet
increasingly I am bringing more of my mind and heart to all that I do.
Gradually, I am becoming whole.

In August, I even got married. The ceremony took place in Strawberry Fields in
Central Park; my bride, an American-born artist, chose the spot based on her
fondness for John Lennon and Yoko Ono. I had felt no special connection to the
two cultural icons, but I accepted her choice. Yet in the moments before the
wedding, a memory linked to this place did come back to me.

News of Lennon's murder outside the Dakota, where the couple lived, reached me
late on Dec. 8, 1980. It was shortly after my father's departure, and the crime
only underscored the strange new life in New York that stretched before us. It
had taken nearly a quarter of a century, but I was incorporating that event into
my personal history. And life seemed not as strange anymore.

Born -- Greece, 1970
Arrived in New York -- 1980
Home -- Fort Greene, Brooklyn


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)Map of New York tracks
foreign-born Greeks.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Election Day, A Vote to Leave

BYLINE: By ALEX MARKELS

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1256 words


FOR most John Kerry supporters, it went no further than an idle election night
threat.

''I'm moving to Canada!'' some joked after the television networks called
Florida for President Bush.

''I'll check out New Zealand,'' others quipped as Ohio blinked red on the
televised map.

But to Pamela Branch, it was no joking matter. Deeply disturbed over the Iraq
war and what she says is the country's sharply rightward political turn under
President Bush, the 34-year-old nurse anesthetist from Long Beach, Calif., and
her fiance, Kyle Powell, 32, a neurobiologist, had already considered a move out
of the country. ''We were of the mind that, maybe, possibly we'd stay if Kerry
wins,'' Ms. Branch said of her fleeting hopes on election night. But as the
United States map turned increasingly red, ''I was like, 'We've got to get out
of here.'''

So the next morning, she mailed in her application for Canadian residency. She
was hardly the only one to express interest in Canadian citizenship. From an
average of 20,000 daily visits, the Canadian government's Citizenship and
Immigration Canada Web site -- www.cic.gc.ca -- logged more than 150,000 visits
on Nov. 3. The site, which allows prospective immigrants to assess their chances
for admittance and download application forms, has since hovered at about triple
the average number of visits, according to a government spokesman.

Although it's too early to tell whether such interest will translate into an
increase in the 5,000 to 6,000 Americans who take up residence in Canada
annually, immigration lawyers there report a spike in American clients.

Meanwhile, immigration experts in New Zealand, Panama and elsewhere have noted
similar jumps in interest from Americans since the election. ''Based on what
we're seeing, there may be millions of people planning on leaving the country,''
said Roger Gallo, the founder of www.escapeartist.com, a Web site that focuses
on living abroad. The site has logged a large increase in inquiries since
President Bush was first elected in 2000, and a doubling in Web site visitors to
about 140,000 a day after the Nov. 2 election.

Filled with primers on getting foreign residency status and buying real estate,
it serves as an information clearinghouse for would-be expatriates.

Such an increase would represent a stark departure from the past when -- even at
the height of the Vietnam War, when many young men fled to Canada to escape the
military draft -- emigration of native-born Americans has long been estimated
only in the tens of thousands annually, according to Ellen Percy Kraly, a
geography professor at Colgate University who studies emigration from the United
States.

Based on those who register voluntarily at consulates around the globe, the
United States government estimates that there are currently three million to
four million Americans living outside the country, a number that hasn't changed
much in recent years. But because it doesn't actually count those exiting the
country, ''it's almost impossible to know how many people are leaving,''
Professor Kraly said. That said, ''there is almost certainly an increase at the
fringe of American society,'' she added.

In past decades, much of that has been among libertarians, retirees and other
so-called ''economic refugees'' seeking a lower cost of living and reduced
taxes. ''But now I'm seeing fewer of the tax rebels and more of the intellectual
and political refugees,'' Mr. Gallo said, citing growing interest in countries
including Canada, New Zealand and Spain. ''The people who are fleeing because of
taxes go to places like Panama, which is very laissez faire economically. But
the ones who are more politically motivated go to places like Canada.''

That is certainly the reasoning behind Michelle Paymar's recent decision to move
to Vancouver, British Columbia, in part because in 2003, Canadian courts ruled
that gay marriage was protected by the country's constitution. A lifelong
resident of Los Angeles, the 47-year-old documentary filmmaker and her partner,
Veronique Delaney, who is French and has so far been unable to get a green card,
have been trying to find a way to stay in the United States.

''We were hoping that a Kerry administration might support the Permanent
Partners Immigration Act,'' Ms. Paymar said, referring to legislation proposed
last year that would provide same-sex partners of American citizens the same
immigration rights as legal spouses now have. ''But it was wishful thinking.''

To hedge their bets, the couple recently hired a Canadian immigration lawyer and
took a house-hunting trip to Vancouver early this fall, when they quickly
acquired a taste for Canada's institutionalized inclusiveness. ''We were renting
a car and wanted to add Veronique as a second driver, which normally costs extra
if you're not married,'' Ms. Paymar recalled. ''But the agent told us, 'No
charge for spouses.' It was the first time in my life that someone treated my
relationship like something completely normal!''

Their sense of welcome only increased as their real estate agent ushered them
into a beautiful two-bedroom condominium overlooking the city. ''She warned us
that prices were so high that we'd get zero for our money,'' Ms. Paymar said.
''But compared with Los Angeles, it felt like a relative bargain.''

Despite a steady decline in the American dollar's value against its Canadian
counterpart since last year, a 1,200-square-foot, three-bedroom apartment on the
downtown Vancouver waterfront with sweeping views of Coal Harbour can still be
had for about $400,000 (in American currency), including a parking space and
access to an indoor swimming pool and gym. ''It definitely felt like a better
investment than anything I could buy in California right now,'' said Ms. Paymar,
who decided to buy an apartment even before she and her partner officially
obtain residency.

The process can take as long as two years, including a lengthy application in
which would-be immigrants are judged on a point system that takes education, job
skills, language, offers of employment and even age into account. Though Ms.
Paymar is at the high end of Canada's ideal immigrant age of 21 through 49, as a
skilled worker, ''I don't foresee any problems for her,'' said Michael Battista,
her Canadian lawyer.

College educated and skilled, Ms. Branch and Mr. Powell are also good
candidates. They are considering Toronto, in part because ''as black people we
want to occasionally see other people who look like us,'' Ms. Branch said.

The only down side is that her nurse-anesthetist credential isn't accepted in
Canada. ''I'd have to take a job as a regular nurse, which would mean a huge pay
cut,'' she said. So she and her fiance are also investigating other countries,
including Spain, which accepts her medical credentials. ''And we love
Zapatero,'' Ms. Branch said of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, Spain's new
Socialist prime minister. ''On top of the Spanish culture and food and dance, to
have this total progressive who stands up to Bush and the Catholic Church is
irresistible.''

Still, she knows such a move would be difficult. So to start out, she and Mr.
Powell plan on renting instead of buying -- probably a smart move considering
that Spain is experiencing housing price inflation even more severe than that in
parts of the United States, according to a recent report by the International
Monetary Fund. ''We just want to get our feet wet,'' Ms. Branch said. ''But if
Bush goes berserk and starts bombing Iran, I doubt we'd go back.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: HEADING ABROAD -- Pamela Branch of California is considering a
move to Spain or Canada. Vancouver, above, and New Zealand are drawing
Americans. (Photos by left, J.Emilio Flores for The New York Times
 above, Don MacKinnon for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Thriving Mosque, Built on a Dream

BYLINE: As told to Jeff VanDam

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE: SCENES; Pg.
4

LENGTH: 299 words


The Albanian Islamic Cultural Center in Tompkinsville, Staten Island, founded by
immigrants from Kosovo, is one of the city's largest mosques.

Feride Bedrolli
38, founding imam

 I came here 15 years ago from Kosovo to start the mosque. It was small at
first, a little place on Van Duzer Street. It was like a dream, because there
was nothing.

It's much easier to establish a mosque here than anywhere else. Here, to go
through all the documents to establish the mosque, it was simple. But the work
itself was difficult.

Everything depends on donations, so you've got to go everywhere and ask for
money. But when you have supporters behind you, you feel stronger. For us, we
were working nights and getting up early in the morning to work. Today we have
1,500 Albanian families here.

People hear they're making a very large mosque here, and they come from Brooklyn
and Queens, from Chicago and Detroit. We are trying to makeit national.

Tahir Kukiqi
40, imam

 Three years ago, I decided to come to the United States and join my brothers
here at the center. We are trying to give a model of a modern Muslim society. We
are open to all -- we receive rabbis and priests. We try to tell people that
Muslims want to work hand in hand with other communities. We feel that this is
our mission as Muslims, and that we owe it to this nation. I'm trying to convey
the message that religion is a power. It works for everyone, not against anyone.


Mustafa Islami
44, mosque superintendent

 I lived outside in a tent with my family in Kosovo; then we went to Macedonia.
The United States took 20,000 people from there, and I came with my wife and six
children.

At first I worked in a chocolate factory on Staten Island; then I got a job here
at the school in the center. I'm happy here, and my family is happy, too.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letting Their Hair Grow On Their Yerida

BYLINE: As told to Sam Knight

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE: SCENES; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 433 words


In Hebrew, emigrating from Israel is known as ''yerida,'' or going down, the
opposite of ''aliya,'' or immigration to Israel, which means going up. And at
Village Shuwarma on the Avenue of the Americas in Greenwich Village, a handful
of Israeli immigrants can invariably be found eating, playing backgammon,
watching soccer and reflecting on this often complicated journey.

Tsach Algaza
25, of Borough Park, Brooklyn.
Originally from Yehud, near Tel Aviv.

 After the army, you have to get out of Israel, just for resting, after a hard
three years. Most of us have to get free, get this freedom, grow our hair.

New York is the biggest zoo ever. I am more like a quiet person, but this place,
it's New York, it's interesting and it's new. Of course, everyone here knows the
Israelis. We are loud and we are aggravated; when we come in, everyone is
supposed to know, but we are very good people.

Yariv Atias
29, of the Upper West Side.
Originally from Haifa, in northern Israel.

 The soccer stadium maybe is 100 meters from where my parents live, and my
father used to take me to games. When we're at the games, my uncle can put 50 of
these watermelon seeds into his mouth and eat them all. He is like a
professional. He says the game without the seeds is not a game.

In Israel, it is hard. You live in a country always in a war. The economic
situation is not good, so people try some other place to go, to forget, relax
their mind. Haifa is like Long Island; it's suburban. It is a different
mentality. Here in New York, people are arrogant, always pushing you, stepping
on you, this and that.

Guy Numi
26, of the Upper West Side.
Originally from Jerusalem.

 I've been here for four years. There is a big difference from Jerusalem. In
Israel, you don't see people waiting in line all quietly; in Jerusalem there is
swearing in the street, in the traffic.

The second thing is that if you want to do anything in New York, you can. It's
up to you. If you are in middle school and you want to study anything, different
things, you can. In Jerusalem there is less variety, but the food in Israel is
the best food.

Limor
31, of Manhattan.
Originally from Tel Aviv.

 In Israel you just know everybody and everybody knows you. Everything is bigger
here, just everything. People have some strange opinions about Israel -- there
are a lot of Jewish people in New York who have families there, so they know.

This one American guy, he came to my apartment and he said, ''This looks like an
American apartment!''

And I said, ''What did you expect?''

He said: ''I don't know. It just looks like an American girl's apartment.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

With the Rashers, A Widows' Bond

BYLINE: As told to Steven Kurutz

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE: SCENES; Pg.
8

LENGTH: 213 words


Sean's Quality Deli, a small market on Katonah Avenue in Woodlawn, the Bronx,
specializes in items imported from Ireland, making it a popular gathering spot
for the many Irish immigrants living nearby.

Eileen Fitzpatrick
65, of Woodlawn.
Originally from County Cork.

 So, you want my life story, do you? I came to America in 1958. I have four
sisters, and they all stayed. I guess you could say I wanted more.

In Ireland, I worked in a factory knitting sweaters. I arrived in New York on a
Friday and went to work the following Monday at an insurance company. I was only
a file person, but I liked it a lot better than knitting sweaters.

I come to Sean's on the weekends. Across the street is the Irish bakery, which
bakes fresh bread each day. This is where I met Maureen. Our husbands both
passed. We really come here to meet men -- now you know my secret. No. We watch
people walk by or talk with friends. This is therapy.

Maureen Lynch
79, of Woodlawn.
Originally from County Kerry.

 Sean's carries a lot of Irish dishes. They have Irish sausage, candies, bread
and rashers. I've lived here 13 years; before that I lived in Highbridge. I came
to New York in 1957 with my husband and two children. I wasn't overwhelmed by
the size of the city because I had already lived in London.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Where Is Home, If the Place You Come From No Longer Exists?'

BYLINE: By BORIS FISHMAN.

Boris Fishman is the editor of ''Wild East: Stories From the Last Frontier,'' a
collection of short stories about the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet
Eastern Europe.

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 943 words


WHAT does it mean to be from a place that is no longer on the map? My homeland,
the Soviet Union, disintegrated in late 1991, a scant three years after my
family had managed to escape its anti-Semitism and lack of opportunity. As an
immigrant in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, with a funny haircut and even funnier
clothes, I tended to worry more about fitting in than the place where those
clothes had come from.

By the time I became curious, that place was gone. I looked for it in books. I
looked for it in college, where, to the dismay of my parents, who wanted old
wounds to stay sealed, I majored in Russian literature. I looked for it in
Brighton Beach, the heavily Russian community in Brooklyn where I found a
late-70's Soviet aesthetic joined to the coarse materialism possible only in a
capitalist society. I even went so far as to go all the way back, but the
post-Soviet Russia I discovered on a 2000 visit felt as foreign as the ersatz
Soviet Union frozen in time on Brighton Beach.

There's plenty of Russia in New York, especially in this age of open borders.
There's Petrossian, the dispensary of Caspian caviar in Midtown; the Russian
steam baths on Tenth Street, where men with tobacco-stained mustaches pummel you
with bouquets of birch branches to improve your circulation; the Black Sea
bookstore on Coney Island Avenue, where the socialist realists snuggle against
the romantics, and even forgive the surrealists.

But Petrossian is unbearably pompous, the Russian steam baths are kitschy, and
in the Black Sea you will hear more about what kind of car so-and-so's son Misha
drives than about anything by Turgenev. Where, then, does the finicky Russian
immigrant find his homeland in New York?

I decided to ask around.

Russia is a ''feeling,'' said Vica Vinogradova, a multimedia producer who came
from St. Petersburg in 1990. ''It's when you sit at home in the kitchen and your
interaction with someone suddenly becomes open and candid: a kind of
kitchenness. This person doesn't have to be Russian at all.''

Regina Khidekel, the director of the Russian-American Cultural Center, said
Russia was tutelage in adversity. ''My son Roma came here at 13 having lived
through an incredibly interesting period in perestroika,'' she said. ''And here,
he felt an advantage, because he knew something about history and humanity that
his contemporaries here didn't know. We carry an unbelievable experience.''

''Welcome to the world of being a professional immigrant!'' the novelist Gary
Shteyngart, who emigrated from what was then Leningrad at the age of 7,
exclaimed when he heard I was writing an essay about being Russian in New York.
For Gary, Russia is America's untiring appetite for its beguiling, enigmatic
former nemesis.

Mikhail Baryshnikov didn't want to talk about Russia. ''I spent only 10 years
there,'' he said, brushing me off. ''I was born in Latvia.'' For those of us
from the other Soviet republics -- I was born in Belarus -- Russia is an
accident of association and a confinement of identity, too.

''Misha doesn't want to belong to anything,'' said Mr. Baryshnikov's friend
Roman Kaplan, a co-owner of Russian Samovar, the purveyor of nostalgia and
fruit-infused vodka on 52nd Street. ''He is like a fully detached house.

''For me, it's like the poet has it,'' he added. '''Face to face, one cannot see
the face.' You see the larger things from a distance. Russia is not the horror I
left. It's something far greater. That something is Russian culture. Politicians
come and go, but Pushkin is forever, correct? Tsvetaeva is forever. Malevich is
forever. Pasternak is forever.''

Modern America is kind to ethnicity. A hundred years ago, when the country was
less certain of itself, the greenhorns who sailed from Eastern Europe for the
tenements of the Lower East Side were expected to assimilate and lose themselves
to America's cultural largess. Today, immigration has so thoroughly redefined
the American narrative that I feel American precisely because I am an immigrant.
New York has subsumed ethnicity so thoroughly that I feel more American than
Russian plowing through a plate of blintzes at the Russian Vodka Room.

At the same time, America's youth and consequent obsession with genealogy --
''Where are you from?'' after all, is the standard greeting in town -- frees the
foreigner to keep a bit of home on unfamiliar ground.

''I thought I'd lose my Russianness when I came here,'' Ms. Khidekel said.
''America allows you to remain who you are, doesn't force you to change your
religion, or your interests. Doesn't force you to reject anything.''

Where amid all this is my Russia? Where is home, if the place you come from no
longer exists? Does immigration mean it can survive -- like the demonic figure
Woland in Mikhail Bulgakov's ingenious novel ''Master and Margarita,'' who must
commit evil as a catalyst for the world to do good -- only as a shadow, only in
opposition, only as not-Petrossian, not-Russian Baths, not-Black Sea?

No. Roman Kaplan's poet had it right -- ''face to face, one cannot see the
face.'' To uproot oneself from native soil, to deny oneself the great,
unfathomable fortune of growing to old age in the place one was born, is not to
relinquish one's homeland. But it does mean one can never take that homeland
literally again.

If Russia was everywhere back home, it comes in fleeting moments here in New
York. Russia in New York is pomposity, and kitsch, and obsession with material
possessions, and also the opposite of all those things. As for an ''authentic,''
''real'' Russia? Who knows? I don't live there anymore.

Born -- Belarus, 1979
Arrived in New York -- 1988
Home -- Upper East Side


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)Chart/Map of New York
tracks foreign-born Russians, Belorussians and Ukrainians.One dot represents 100
people in a census tract (usually about 4,000 people in New York City)Note:
Tracts with fewer than 100 people of a given ethnicity are not shown.(Source by
Queens College Department of Sociology analysis of Census 2000 data)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Family Business: Work, Sleep, Work

BYLINE: As told to Steven Kurutz. Translated by Mabel Tso from the Chinese.

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE: SCENES; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 254 words


For three decades, the Mei Lai Wah coffee and tea house, on Bayard Street in
Chinatown, has been a popular gathering place for the Chinese immigrants who
live nearby.

Uncle Fi
72, originally from Toison
in Guangdong Province.

 I've worked at the coffee shop for 36 years. I've always had the same job. I'm
a waiter. I retired a few years ago, but I still come in and work because my
friends all come here. I don't take a salary, but I bring them coffee.

I've learned very little because everybody here is from the same village and
they speak Toisonese. We talk about everything. Lately, we've been talking about
the presidential elections. All the presidents are the same to me, no matter who
we choose.

Lira Chen
66, originally from Toison.

 My first job was in a Laundromat. I had an hourlong commute from my home in
Flatbush, Brooklyn, to Columbus Avenue. A black woman who worked there taught me
English. I worked as a seamstress, too. Now my husband owns the coffee shop and
I work here. Right now, I am making honey noodles. You fry them with sugar.

All we do is work, go home, sleep, work. We're here to make the American dollar.
No one in Chinatown is going to go out of their way to help you. It's all about
helping yourself in this country.

Shirley Lau
75, originally from Toison.

 Lira is my cousin and I come to the coffee shop to visit her. I came to America
when I was 18; I've been here 57 years. My husband worked in a restaurant. I was
a housewife. I don't have any children.. I wake up. I watch TV. I go shopping.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

O Canada! That Fractured, Frosty Land

BYLINE: By BRUCE McCALL.

Bruce McCall, the humorist, is the author of ''Thin Ice: Coming of Age in
Canada.''

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 732 words


Now is a particularly favorable moment to immigrate to Canada: the National
Hockey League has all but evaporated in a labor dispute, so the usual forced
bloating of the United States emigrant's cerebral cortex with the billions of
data bytes necessary to talk hockey with mailmen, cabdrivers and yes, customs
agents, is suspended.

Canada's states are called provinces for a good reason: provincialism. They're
strung out laterally across the North American continent like washing on a long
line, and the towels never talk to the socks. British Columbia out there on the
far side of the Rockies feels zero affinity with Newfoundland out there in the
Atlantic, and not a lot more with the other eight provinces.

Meanwhile the three prairie provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba, as
independent of one another as if they were in the Balkans, border on the
politically wacky through lack of cultural cross-ventilation and are united only
in their contempt for centrally situated Ontario -- rich by Canadian standards,
and revoltingly smug about it -- whose residents in turn have generally despised
their next-door neighbors in francophone Quebec for 200-plus years. The feeling
is at least mutual, while the three Maritime Provinces -- New Brunswick, Nova
Scotia and Prince Edward Island -- pine away in geographic and economic
isolation, nursing a grudge against all the other provinces on general
principles.

Having fled the United States because of its increasing regional factionalism,
you thus must learn to hate all over again: loyalty to whatever province you
fetch up in, including its prickly bag of resentments against all the others,
will be as vital as your loyalty to Canada itself.

Canada's DNA is late-Victorian British, so no wonder Canadians from whatever
province regard calling attention to oneself as vulgar or, worse, American.
Assimilating will go easier if you abandon vanity, as in good haircuts and fancy
European haberdashery, and any worldly success as anything but a grotesque
mistake. If life in Canada is cheaper, the money saved by extinguishing the ego
is one reason.

Texans and other congenital blowhards moving north should learn to speak in a
low voice and a tone so mild that even declarative statements sound like
questions. (Thus that Canadian habit of appending that ''eh?'' to every
sentence, both a plea for approval and license for the hearer to disagree.)
American extroverts entering Canada are likely to meet members of its persecuted
attention-seeking minority, Mike Myers, Jim Carrey, etc., heading the other way.
Real Canadians shun the open expression of almost any emotion, save the
cathartically splenetic Yank-bashing, second only to hockey as a national
pastime.

It must be understood that the appeal of hockey for Canadians extends way beyond
a game: it is the only sanctioned outlet for both an otherwise repressed violent
streak, and a secret appreciation for grace and beauty that would be deemed an
admission of sissyhood if lavished on, say, dance. In brief, hockey equals group
therapy.

Stock up on warm rainproof clothing because Canadian weather stinks. It rains
all the time in British Colombia and Newfoundland. Montreal is so cold in winter
that they had to build an underground city to fend off mass frostbite. No wonder
TV weathercasters from Seattle to Bangor spend most of their airtime dreading
the latest cold front sweeping down from Canada. Most Ontarians and Quebecois
would be planning to winter in Florida even if the Yanks had just re-elected
Vlad the Impaler president.

Abandon all hope of gustatory ecstasy. In fact abandon hope of anything but
all-brown meals. Canada, a k a the Land of the Spice Haters, is where food is an
energy source only (think diesel fuel) and fine dining another import of
American ostentation. If Canada had a Death Row, the most popular last meal
would be Salisbury steak, canned corn and Tim Hortons doughnuts.

Canadians have this zany idea that it is they who bask in a land of opportunity,
justice and tolerance demonstrably equal if not superior to (strict gun laws,
gay marriage, environmental responsibility, universal health care) the United
States, or anywhere else, so best to rein in the gassy Only-in-America
ethnocentrism that is your birthright -- or, to Canadians, birth defect.

So welcome, American immigrants, but -- said as kindly as possible -- just shut
up.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Beyond 'Call It Sleep': New Immigrant Classics

BYLINE: By SCOTT VEALE

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1084 words


FOR past generations, the bedrock accounts of the immigrant experience in New
York described the lives of newcomers from Eastern Europe and carried titles
like ''Call It Sleep,'' by Henry Roth (1934), ''A Walker in the City,'' by
Alfred Kazin (1951) and ''World of Our Fathers,'' by Irving Howe (1976). In the
last quarter century, however, the literary melting pot has been spiced with
fresh voices from Korea, Cuba, Mexico, Russia and beyond, even as the dreams and
struggles they chronicle echo those of their predecessors.

Here is a baker's dozen of new and recent classics.

The Apprentice: My Life in the Kitchen
By Jacques Pepin (2003)

 The author of this culinary coming-of-age memoir honed his skills in the grand
kitchens of Paris before ditching it all in 1959 to travel to New York and that
shrine of haute cuisine, Le Pavillon. Before long he's on the street, armed with
poor English and an open heart, and he winds up flipping burgers at a Howard
Johnson's in Queens. The savory tale of Mr. Pepin's rise and fall and rebirth is
infused with his gleeful discovery of Oreos, Jell-O and other American
delicacies.

Bodega Dreams
By Ernesto Quinonez (2000)

 Growing up in East Harlem, the cynical, street-savvy half-Ecuadorean,
half-Puerto Rican narrator of this gritty novel struggles to escape his
supermarket job by getting a Hunter College education, while avoiding the lure
of the drug-dealing life. This is a raw portrait of life in the projects of El
Barrio.

Drown
By Junot Diaz (1996)

 In his debut collection of short stories, the Dominican-American author
chronicles the lives of young Latino men and their halting attempts at
assimilation, lives defined by a carefully guarded sensitivity, obsessive
watchfulness and awkward relations with women.

Fixer Chao
By Han Ong (2001)

 William Narciso Paulinha, a gay Filipino street hustler on the make on the
streets of Times Square, is recruited by a bitter, social-climbing writer to
assume the guise of ''Master Chao,'' a bogus feng shui expert, to bilk members
of the writer's upper-crust circle. This darkly funny novel tracks his rise from
the city's underbelly to the loftiest echelons of Manhattan society, with plenty
to say about race, class and privilege.

The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love
By Oscar Hijuelos (1989)

 Cesar and Nestor Castillo, who emigrated from Havana in the late 1940's to
become New York City mambo stars, find fleeting glory when they are discovered
in a nightclub by Desi Arnaz, who invites them to make a brief appearance on ''I
Love Lucy.'' Their immigrant story, however, is less about realized dreams than
about missed opportunities and squandered hopes.

Native Speaker
By Chang-rae Lee (1995)

 The author, who immigrated to the United States from Korea at age 3, tells the
fictional tale of Henry Park, himself the son of Korean immigrants, who follows
the classic path of assimilation to gain an education and a strange career: he
works for a New York dirty-tricks firm that hires first-generation Americans to
spy on the immigrant communities they come from. Somewhat surprising for a book
that focuses on outsiderdom and the perils of multicultural identity, it offers
a hopeful perspective on the nation's role as a beacon to the world.

The Rug Merchant
By Phillip Lopate (1987)

 This novel's hero, an Iranian rug merchant who settles on Amsterdam Avenue and
prefers quiet, bookish pursuits to the business of commerce, labors mightily to
keep his greedy landlords at bay while trying to do something about his
middle-aged bachelorhood (his mother tries to force him to marry a young
Zoroastrian woman). Navigating his Manhattan purgatory, he is gradually forced
to confront the reality of his own anonymous existence.

The Russian Debutante's Handbook
By Gary Shteyngart (2002)

 This playfully energetic novel revolves around an ''immigrant's immigrant''
named Vladimir Girshkin, a Russian Jew who is lugging a passionate Slavic soul
into a weightless state of exile in the New World. Living in a cramped East
Village walk-up and toiling as an immigration clerk, he takes up with a quirky
cast of characters, including a demented Russian war veteran and a young woman
who initiates him into the glamorous world of American academe.

The Short Sweet Dream Of Eduardo Gutierrez
By Jimmy Breslin (2002)

 The short, unhappy life of an illegal Mexican immigrant is the subject of Mr.
Breslin's angry broadside against the exploitation of low-wage labor and
cronyism in New York City's municipal government. Mr. Gutierrez left his
dirt-poor village for a simple room of his own, sleeping on the floor of a
cramped Brooklyn apartment before drowning in a pool of cement while working at
a construction site in 1999.

There Are Jews in My House
By Lara Vapnyar (2003)

 The author, a Russian emigre who learned English after moving to New York in
1994, paints vivid portraits of lives in transition. One story, about a
multigenerational family that has emigrated from Russia to Brooklyn, explores
the often painful displacement of roles in an immigrant family.

'Tis: A Memoir
By Frank McCourt (1999)

 In the follow-up to ''Angela's Ashes,'' his Pulitzer-winning memoir of growing
up poor and miserable in County Limerick, the Brooklyn-born Mr. McCourt tells of
his homecoming in 1949 at age 19, and his pursuit of the American dream -- the
''tormenting dream,'' as he calls it. As he journeys from menial jobs to student
to successful public-school teacher, Mr. McCourt struggles to navigate the
shadowlands of Irish-American identity.

Translations of Beauty
By Mia Yun (2004)

 This novel about immigrants' children laboring to please traditional parents
while creating new identities in a strange world begins when a Korean family
leaves its small village for greener pastures in Flushing, Queens. Though only
planned as a stopover ''on the way to the Real America,'' Queens becomes home,
and the family's experiences make for a bittersweet tale about the meaning of
race, kinship and success.

When I Was Puerto Rican
By Esmeralda Santiago (1993)

 Though they are United States citizens, Puerto Ricans in New York share in the
immigrant experience. In her inspirational coming-of-age memoir, the author
writes lyrically about growing up in the 1950's in a corrugated metal shack in
Puerto Rico, where she lived with six siblings, and her family's move to a grim
Brooklyn neighborhood when she was 13. Her personal journey, twisting and
turning through an often-harsh alien culture, culminates in her acceptance at
the High School of Performing Arts.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Darfur Strife Behind Them, Two Detainees Win Freedom

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Rachel L. Swarns contributed reporting from Washington
for this article.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1010 words


Fadl Ibrahim Mohammed was nearly overcome on Friday as he visited Times Square
for the first time, marveling at the soaring buildings and the flashing lights.
He spent the rest of his afternoon worshiping at a mosque in Brooklyn and
strolling along the tree-lined streets south of Prospect Park.

Yet his first full day of freedom was not enough to make him forget the torture
and beatings he had endured in Sudan, nor the wife and two children he left
behind there. Mr. Mohammed, 36, and another man, Mohammed Gomaa Ali, 29, are
among the first Sudanese people to be given refuge in the United States since
the Darfur region of Sudan erupted in violence last year. On Thursday, a federal
immigration judge granted their request for political asylum, ending their five
months in limbo in a detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.

''When we first got out, we smelled the air and I felt it was the first time we
were really in America,'' Mr. Mohammed said. ''I felt we were finally going to
be able to live in peace and security here, and forget about the torture and
troubles we left behind.''

Mr. Ali said he used his time in detention to learn some English, while playing
volleyball, watching television and making conversation with other asylum
seekers from Nigeria to China, Haiti to Georgia, Albania to Algeria.

Immigration advocates hailed the decision by the immigration judge, Mirlande
Tadal of the Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review, as a
rare victory for two survivors of the government-condoned violence in Darfur,
which the Bush administration has described as genocide. About 1.5 million
people there have been displaced, and an untold number maimed or killed, since
February 2003, when conflict erupted between the government and two rebel
groups. The antagonism has been primarily ethnic, pitting Arabs against African
villagers.

''This case shows how difficult it is for refugees, even one who flees from a
horrendous conflict with scars on his body,'' said Eleanor Acer, director of the
asylum program at Human Rights First, an advocacy group in Manhattan. She was
referring to Mr. Mohammed, who displayed scars on his left arm during a court
hearing in September.

Human Rights First, formerly known as the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights,
found the lawyers -- Michael W. Hanna, an Egyptian-American, and Nandini N.
Ramnath, whose parents are from India -- to represent the men for free.

The federal Department of Homeland Security had challenged the men's claims to
asylum, raising questions about their harrowing tales of imprisonment and
torture by government-supported Arabic militias, especially the one known as the
janjaweed.

Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the department, would not comment on their cases
but said that lawyers were still weighing whether to appeal the decision. ''We
are considering that option,'' he said.

Both men are members of the Zaghawa ethnic group, which has been a base of
support for one of the main rebel groups, the Sudan Liberation Army. But the men
come from agricultural families that were apparently swept up in the violence
that has plagued western Sudan for nearly two years.

Mr. Mohammed, a cattle herder, said Sudanese soldiers and members of the
janjaweed detained and beat him and other residents of their village after a
government airstrike that killed more than 20 villagers in February 2003. During
his 25 days at a military camp, he said, he was tied to a tree and burned with a
hot ember on his arm, and had a cigarette put out on his ear, He added that two
of his teeth were knocked out when he was struck with a rifle butt.

Mr. Mohammed escaped from the back of a military transport vehicle and walked a
week until he reached the border with Chad. For nearly three weeks, he searched
the refugee camps before finding his family. His joy turned to grief, he said,
when one of his two wives, three of his five children and his father were killed
in August 2003 during an air raid by the Sudanese military.

He was separated from his family, captured by militia members, and escaped a
second time before finally making his way to N'Djamena, the capital of Chad, in
September 2003, on a truck carrying food supplies. There, relatives helped him
to obtain false Chadian papers, including a passport, as well as a tourist visa
and a loan to cover the cost of a $1,640 plane ticket to Newark.

Mr. Ali, whose family raised corn and herded sheep and goats, said his mother
and two younger brothers were killed during an airstrike on their village in
August 2003. Later that month, he was tending his sheep when militiamen ambushed
him and took him to a prison camp, where was beaten and confined to a tent with
more than 15 other men in stifling heat, he said. He escaped when the camp was
abandoned.

He fled with his family to Chad but left his father, his sister and her family
and traveled to N'Djamena with help from an uncle to look for work. Mr. Ali said
he lied and claimed he had been born in Chad to obtain a passport and a visa.

Both refugees were on a June 4 flight that brought them ultimately to Newark.

Their ordeal is far from over. A clinical psychologist, Merrill Berger,
testified at their asylum hearings that Mr. Mohammed and Mr. Ali suffered from
post-traumatic stress disorder. Neither man has heard from his family in months.

The men now share a two-bedroom apartment with four other Sudanese men, all from
the same region and ethnic group, on the second floor of a house on Stratford
Avenue. The apartment costs $1,250 a month.

They have already found a mosque, Masjid Umm-ul-Qura, a few blocks away on Coney
Island Avenue near Avenue C. They worshiped there on Friday, and took the subway
to Midtown.

Now, they said, they must learn more English and look for work. One of their
hosts has urged the two men to move to Indiana, where the Sudanese immigrant
community can help them find work.

Mr. Ali appeared willing to take the advice. ''It's up to my friends,'' he said.
''They know everything. Life here is very difficult. Everything is expensive.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fadl Ibrahim Mohammed, left, and Mohammed Gomaa Ali walking in
Brooklyn yesterday and in the apartment shared with four other Sudanese. (Photo
by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 41)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wafting in the Cafe, Smoke of an Argileh, (It's Hookah to You)

BYLINE: As told to Seth Kugel

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; THE NEXT WAVE: SCENES; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 294 words


Of the several cafes along Fifth Avenue in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, where Arab
immigrants and Arab-Americans gather, the Arabesque Cafe and Bazaar draws a
consistently younger crowd of card-players and argileh (hookah) smokers.

Iman Omar
30, of Bay Ridge.
Originally from Egypt.

 I was surprised when my husband brought me here to New York, I saw a lot of
Arabs. Too many Arabs here. I thought that, if I come to the U.S., I would see
no Arabs. I would be like, special.

The Arabic men are not good with the marriage life. Especially in New York, I
don't know why. Because there are too many here? They have not had a chance to
change their lives because they are all the time together, you know what I mean?


Hikmat Abdel
29, Palestinian.
Lives in Bay Ridge.

 I think New York is unique even among the States as far as opportunities, as
far as the way of living, as far as the way of thinking even. Being more
liberal, more open-minded, more educated, and I guess that mix and the melting
pot thing in New York gives it texture.

I've got American friends who are very interested in the way Palestinians are
living over there. I mean, they watch TV, but TV doesn't tell you everything
about back home. It's pretty grim over there.

Hany Abdelhaty
30, of Bay Ridge.
Originally from Egypt.

 When I came the first time here I was surprised about the traffic, that there
would be a system. You can't drive in Cairo. Here everything is easy. You see a
red light, everybody stops. In Egypt, no, it's not like that.

I tell you what, the life is very hard in Egypt. In Egypt, no middle. You have
high-class people and low-class people. Here if you have $100, it's like you
have $100,000. It doesn't matter. You can eat. You can enjoy the life. You can
say whatever you want to say. Freedom.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 24, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Presidents: Born in the U.S.A.?

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 81 words



To the Editor:

The only fair way to change the Constitution to allow naturalized citizens to
run for our nation's highest office would be to write an amendment allowing only
citizens who have been naturalized for 35 years to run.

Why 35 years? That is the minimum age the Constitution requires to be eligible
to be president.

This would allow people who emigrated here at a young age to run for president
and would prevent international carpetbaggers.

Tom Richardson
New York, Nov. 22, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 24, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Presidents: Born in the U.S.A.?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 56 words



To the Editor:

During the more than 200 years that the Constitution has been in effect, there
have been many immigrant citizens worthy to be president. An amendment to wipe
out the ban on a foreign-born president is long overdue.

What's surprising is that the catalyst should be Arnold Schwarzenegger.

Sam Salem
Akron, Ohio, Nov. 22, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 24, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Presidents: Born in the U.S.A.?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 123 words



To the Editor:

Re ''The 28th Amendment,'' by William Safire (column, Nov. 22):

Mr. Safire makes a valid point. We should allow naturalized citizens to hold the
office of president of the United States.

But an amendment to the Constitution should not be taken lightly. We must ask:
Would we be doing this because it is right and just, or only to allow Arnold
Schwarzenegger to run for president because the Republicans think he can win?

To make this a more palatable decision, any amendment should have a clause
delaying its effect for a number of years, perhaps two presidential elections.

Only then would the American people believe in the good faith of those
Republicans who support the amendment.

Jim Wakefield
Chicago, Nov. 22, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 24, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mother Deported, and a Child Left Behind

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words


In April of last year, when her mother dropped by federal immigration
headquarters in Manhattan to complete some paperwork, 8-year-old Virginia Feliz
became part of a growing tribe of American children who have lost a parent to
deportation.

Her mother, Berly, 47, who migrated to the United States illegally a decade ago,
went to the immigration office on a routine visit to renew her work
authorization. But because an old deportation order had resurfaced, she was
quickly clapped into handcuffs, and within hours placed on a plane to her native
Honduras, unable to say goodbye to her husband and little girl.

''I'm not happy; I'm sad,'' said Virginia, who lives in a small Bronx apartment.
''Because it's not fair that everybody else has their mom except me.'' She
dropped onto a couch next to her disabled father, Carlos Feliz, an American
citizen who was born in the Dominican Republic, declaring that she hates her
last name, which means happy in Spanish.

No one keeps track of exactly how many American children were left behind by the
record 186,000 noncitizens expelled from the United States last year, or the
887,000 others required to make a ''voluntary departure.'' But immigration
experts say there are tens of thousands of children every year who lose a parent
to deportation. As the debate over immigration policy heats up, such broken
families are troubling people on all sides, and challenging schools and mental
health clinics in immigrant neighborhoods.

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security say they are simply enforcing
laws adopted in 1996, which all but eliminated the discretion of immigration
officers to consider family ties before enforcing an old order of removal.

''There are millions of people who are illegally in the United States, and it's
unfortunate, when they're caught, seeing a family split up,'' said William
Strassberger, a spokesman for federal immigration services. ''But the person has
to be answerable for their actions.''

Federal officials said they leave time for parents to make arrangements for
their children, and refer them to a social service agency if necessary. Many
parents arrange to leave American-born children with relatives or friends;
others, especially those who have no one to assume responsibility for a child,
take the children along when they are expelled.

''People refer to that as a Sophie's choice situation,'' he said. ''Where the
child is going to be is left up to the parent.''

As a practical matter, arrangements for a child left behind may be hasty at
best, said Janet Sabel, who directs the immigration law unit of the Legal Aid
Society. One mother about to be deported to Nicaragua last year was told to
leave her four children with her husband, Ms. Sabel said. But the husband was an
abusive drug user, and finally the mother persuaded the immigration officer to
give her a few days to make other arrangements. A priest referred her to Legal
Aid, which reopened the case, stopping the deportation.

''There's a happy ending to this story,'' Ms. Sabel said, ''but the fact is,
there was total luck in her finding her way to us.''

By all reports Virginia Feliz had been a happy 6-year-old before her mother's
expulsion. Two months later, doctors at the Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Program of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center found that she had a major depressive
disorder marked by hyperactivity, nightmares, bed-wetting, frequent crying and
fights at school. Now, medical records show, she takes antidepressant drugs and
sees a therapist, but the problems persist.

In a letter to the Department of Homeland Security last year, Dr. Victor Sierra,
the clinic's director, made no bones about the underlying problem: ''Absent
mother, secondary to deportation.'' Another six to eight months may pass before
the American Embassy in Honduras even processes her mother's application to
return, officials say.

In Brooklyn, similar cases cause concern for Birdette Gardiner-Parkinson, the
clinical director at the Caribbean Community Mental Health program at Kingsbrook
Jewish Medical Center. In one, she said, an outgoing, academically gifted
12-year-old began failing classes, mutilating herself and having suicidal
thoughts after her Colombian father disappeared into removal proceedings. In
another case, nightmares and school failure plague the youngest of six children
whose father, a cabdriver with 20 years' residence in the United States, was
deported to Nigeria six hours after he reported for a green card interview,
seemingly for unpaid traffic fines, Ms. Gardiner-Parkinson said.

''The impact is very devastating,'' Ms. Gardiner-Parkinson said. ''When children
lose a family member this way, even though they may have a phone conversation
with them, the physical separation feels like death.''

The distress of children left behind in the United States echoes that of
children left on the southern side of the border, say scholars of transnational
migration like Leah Schmalzbauer, a social anthropologist who recently conducted
a two-year research project on families split between Honduras and the United
States.

The numbers are expected to swell, added Ms. Schmalzbauer, now an assistant
professor of sociology and anthropology at Montana State University. Families in
poor countries like Honduras can no longer manage without remittances from the
United States, and women are beginning to replace men as the primary migrants,
filling growing demands here for low-cost elder care, domestic work and other
service jobs.

''There's no protection for that undocumented labor, and even though we speak of
family values, there's also no protection for the children,'' she said. ''The
research shows the emotional impacts are huge, whether they're separated from
parents on this side or on the other side of the border.''

To advocates of greater restriction on immigration, such families illustrate the
painful consequences of poor enforcement in the past, and point to the perils of
guest worker programs like one proposed by President Bush.

''Once you let the person stay in the United States, it becomes extremely
difficult in our society to make them go,'' said Steven Camarota, director of
research at the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington. ''How are you
going to keep them from falling in love, getting married and having U.S.-born
children?''

To critics of the sterner laws adopted in 1996, such cases show that more
systematic enforcement since Sept. 11, 2001, is compounding the laws'
contradictions and loss of discretion.

''The cornerstone, the bedrock of immigration law is family unity,'' said
Jeffrey A. Feinbloom, an immigration lawyer who has been working for Mrs.
Feliz's return since her deportation and has been frustrated by delays in
processing. ''The interest of the government in removing this woman pales in
comparison with her suffering and her family's. And this child is a citizen,
this husband is a citizen. What about their rights?''

In a telephone interview from Honduras, Mrs. Feliz acknowledged entering the
United States illegally in 1994. She said she made the dangerous journey through
Mexico because she could no longer afford to buy clothes, food and school
supplies for her son, then 13.

Caught within hours of crossing the border, she was soon released on bond and
fled to New York. When she failed to show up in a Texas immigration court, she
was ordered deported in absentia. But like the great majority of such orders, it
was not pursued for years, and Mrs. Feliz went to work, first as a live-in
housekeeper, then in low-wage factory jobs.

After her 1996 marriage, when she applied for a green card, federal immigration
officials not only issued her an official work authorization several times, but
also allowed her husband, as an American citizen and new stepfather, to sponsor
the teenage son she had left in Honduras.

Now that son, Cesar, is 24 and a lawful permanent resident with his own American
child, while his mother is back where she began, without a job or her children.

''I don't have peace because I'm not with my little girl,'' she said in Spanish,
breaking down. ''I don't eat. I don't sleep. I can't be without her -- I have no
life.''

The hardest part, she said, is that in telephone calls her daughter sometimes
tells her, ''You didn't take me with you; you're a bad person.''

''I can't handle that,'' she said.

In the Bronx, Mr. Feliz, 48, who was disabled by a back injury in a workplace
accident four years ago, said he was struggling to support Virginia without his
wife's earnings and was also being treated for depression. He did not have the
heart to tell Virginia her mother had been deported, he added. Instead, he
initially told Virginia that her mother was caring for a sick relative in
Honduras, a story her mother has repeated in telephone calls.

Such lies are commonplace as shaken parents try to shield young children from
the reality of deportation, counselors said. But the deception may only increase
feelings of abandonment, anger and insecurity as the children hunt for reasons
they were left behind.

When the visitor remarked that she was pretty, Virginia, a doe-eyed child with a
caramel complexion, loudly disagreed. ''I'm ugly!'' she insisted. ''I want to be
white, white, white.''

Asked about her mother's departure, she said: ''I was really mad. How come she
didn't take me?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carlos Feliz has struggled to support his daughter, Virginia,
since his wife was deported last year. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York
Times)(pg. A1)
Carlos, Berly and Virginia Feliz when Virginia was about 2 years old. Virginia,
now 8, has been told that Mrs. Feliz is caring for a sick relative.
 Mr. Feliz, who was injured four years ago, must rely on workers' compensation
to provide for Virginia. Both are struggling with depression. (Photo by Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 25, 2004 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Turkey Is Basic, but Immigrants Add Their Homeland Touches

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J.


For all those struggling to get Thanksgiving dinner on the table, consider the
plight of Yaser Baker, a restaurateur in this city's Arabic shopping district.

First Mr. Baker had to find a turkey that was slaughtered according to Islamic
dietary law, a challenge because some local halal butchers decided not to sell
turkeys this year. Then he had to adapt the traditional American recipe to
Arabic tastes, which meant bathing it in lemon and olive oil and stuffing it
with rice, beef and pine nuts.

Finally he had to brace for reaction from his Muslim neighbors, some of whom are
either too devout or too upset about the war in Iraq even to acknowledge
Thanksgiving.

But for Mr. Baker, Thanksgiving is all about the bird.

''Believe me, I don't look at it as an American holiday or a holiday that is not
for Muslims,'' said Mr. Baker, a Palestinian and naturalized American who has
been in the United States for 24 years. ''I live in America. You tell me to eat
turkey, I'm going to eat turkey.''

The desire to celebrate Thanksgiving was so strong for Leticia Maravilla, a
Mexican immigrant, that she roasted her first turkey before she had her green
card, struggling through a newspaper recipe in English.

''I wanted to do it the same way Americans did it,'' she said, speaking from Los
Angeles though an interpreter.

Ms. Maravilla ended up with the most American of problems. The breast meat was
bone dry. Now, with several Thanksgivings under her belt, she has the culinary
conundrum solved. Ms. Maravilla will simmer her turkey on the stove with garlic
and onions before she roasts it, a little tip from her mother in Mexico City.

Thanksgiving, which began as a party for immigrants, remains the most accessible
American holiday for many newcomers. It requires no specific religious or
political allegiance. Even if an immigrant is from a culture where whole roast
turkey is never on the menu -- and that is nearly everywhere except North
America -- most are willing to give it a try.

''Turkey has become so iconic to our mythic heritage that by cooking that
turkey, even if you don't like it, you are part of something bigger,'' said Lucy
Long, a professor of popular culture at Bowling Green State University and the
author of ''Culinary Tourism'' (University Press of Kentucky, 2003). ''You are
symbolically showing unity.''

Of course that translates into a nation of cross-cultural Thanksgivings, where
sticky rice stuffing edges out corn bread, and curry fights with gravy for
dominance on overloaded plates.

Fernando Rojas, an immigration lawyer in Miami, came to the United States from
Colombia with his family when he was a boy. His wife, Jeanette Martinez, is
Puerto Rican. They will share their Thanksgiving meal with his Cuban and
Colombian godparents. The critical mass of Latin cultures means a spread that
could put Manhattan's best fusion chefs to shame: roast turkey rubbed with
garlicky adobo sauce, served alongside plantains, roast pork and platters of
black beans and rice.

''When you come to this country, Thanksgiving is something that you just kind of
adopt right way,'' Mr. Rojas said. ''You can relate to the mythology of the
Pilgrims' coming here and the Indians' helping them out, just like your
relatives are helping you out.''

But Thanksgiving can be baffling for some newcomers, who struggle to understand
an entire day dedicated to eating a large bird. This year, for example, about
150 Somalian Bantu refugees celebrated an early Thanksgiving on Nov. 20 at a
church in Tucson, grateful for a chance at a new life but puzzled by a country
whose favorite holiday foods they can barely choke down.

Thanksgiving is tough to sell to the Bantus, an ethnic minority who were forced
into refugee camps in Kenya, said Mahmoud Abib, a Somalian caseworker with the
International Rescue Committee in Tucson.

''We explain to them that they have been through hell for the last 12 years, and
they have finally come to a place where they are free,'' Mr. Abib said. ''We say
this is giving thanks to the host country that brought them out of that
misery.''

Luckily the turkey resembles a large, low-flying bird that Mr. Abib said the
Bantu hunt. But the Bantu would rather boil the turkey into soup than roast it.

At another early Thanksgiving celebration for refugees, in Decatur, Ga., members
of Jewish, Muslim and Christian congregations introduced refugees from eight
countries to the concept of Thanksgiving. Bantus and Liberians shared food with
Afghans and Sudanese. Safar Fadel, an Afghan, who arrived in the United States
in 2000, was there to walk brand-new arrivals through the meal. He remembers his
first Thanksgiving and the outpouring of support from people who offered his
family food and even clothing.

''I recommend it to any refugee,'' he said through an interpreter. ''It is a
beautiful feeling.''

The Thanksgiving message is universal, said Ellen Beattie, who runs the
International Rescue Committee office that helped arrange the dinner Mr. Fadel
attended. ''I don't think there is a culture in the world where the concept of
sitting down and eating together is not understood,'' she said.

But the finer points of the holiday are easily lost on many immigrant parents,
who are often introduced to Thanksgiving when their children come home from
school with recipes and construction-paper turkeys.

''It's an odd holiday for some families,'' said Makale Faber, who manages school
programs for City Lore, a group in Manhattan dedicated to preserving New York's
cultural heritage. ''The children have Thursday off to eat a turkey? They don't
even know what a turkey is.''

Children can be strident about wanting a turkey dinner that looks just like the
one all the other kids have, she said. Ms. Faber, whose father is from Guinea,
knows the feeling firsthand. ''We ended up making a stew with turkey legs,'' she
said. ''I of course threw a fit because it wasn't American.''

Some immigrants will not celebrate at all. Perhaps 20 percent of the Muslims in
Paterson, the most devout, recognize only Muslim holidays, said Hani Awadallah,
the president of the Arab American Civic Organization here. Mr. Baker, who will
cook half a dozen turkeys for customers at his restaurant, Al Basha, and one for
his own family for Thanksgiving, agreed, adding that perhaps half the Muslims in
the Paterson area would eat turkey for the holiday. Thirty percent more will get
together with family but will not prepare the traditional meal, he said.

One who will not observe the tradition is Shar Rabbo, owner of Nablus Sweets and
Pastries on Main Street. He will stay open for the holiday. The Iraq war weighs
on his customers. ''Let's face it, it has dampened Thanksgiving this year,'' he
said.

For people from other cultures the reasons for not celebrating are more
practical than political. Thanksgiving is the one day of the year when many
Chinese restaurants in New York close. That makes it a perfect day for Chinese
weddings, which often attract more than 300 people.

''That day offers the highest odds that someone will be available to attend
because they are not working,'' said Tom Cheung, a Manhattan resident, whose
parents ran a Chinese restaurant in Coram, N.Y. Some Thanksgivings his family
was obligated to go to a half-dozen weddings. As a result, he did not have his
first turkey dinner until he went home with a college roommate, who happened to
be from Iran.

Like Mr. Cheung's parents, many new Chinese immigrants never cook turkey on
Thanksgiving. ''They know assimilation is inevitable, so they hold onto their
own culture as hard as they can,'' he said.

In a suburb of Boston, Thanksgiving is all about blending cultures. Ever since
Deepak Singh immigrated from Delhi in 1989, he has been perfecting a
Thanksgiving menu that offers a turkey seasoned American style, with only salt
and pepper, and a macula-scented stuffing seasoned with whatever bits of Indian
food and sauce are left over in the refrigerator. Then he covers the rest of the
table with as many Indian dishes as he can, sometimes feeding up to 30 friends
and family members.

At Mr. Singh's table, dinner is not a political statement. Nor is it an
opportunity to reflect on the impromptu harvest festival that started the whole
thing more than 300 years ago.

''I can assure you, nobody is sitting down and thinking of the Pilgrims and the
Indians and the corn,'' he said. ''Neither are we spectacularly saying, 'Oh,
gosh, Americans have taken over everything, and we don't care for that.' It's
just a huge eating escapade.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 27, 2004



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Thursday about
immigrants' ways of celebrating Thanksgiving misspelled the name of an Indian
spice mixture. It is masala, not macula.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Halal turkey in Paterson, N.J. (Photo by Ting-LiWang/The New
York Times)(pg. A1)
Jeannette Martinez and Fernando Rojas preparing turkey in a traditional Latin
American sauce, adobo. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
 Kamisaye Muhina, 2, of Somalia, and his mother at a Thanksgiving meal for
refugees in Decatur, Ga. (Photo by Tami Chappell for The New York Times)(pg.
A30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Helping Asians Find Harmonious Locations

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg.
11

LENGTH: 1432 words


IN the great melting pot of real estate, there are always some elements that do
not break down and blend in. In New Jersey, particularly for Asians, there are a
number of well-known ethnic enclaves that are marketed to those seeking to live
out of the mainstream: Korean neighborhoods in Palisades Park and Fort Lee,
Indian neighborhoods in Edison and Woodbridge, Japanese neighborhoods in
Edgewater, and so on.

Real estate agents and brokers are quick to point out that they do not ''steer''
potential home buyers to a particular neighborhood based on their ethnicity or
religion; that's illegal. ''Our job is to listen to what way they want to go,''
said Phyllis Bixon, a vice president of Weichert Realtors in New Jersey, ''and
then accommodate.''

Sociologists have noted signs that the traditional immigrant goal of
assimilation is diminishing as more foreign-born people actively seek
communities where their culture can be preserved for their children. Census
figures buttress that notion, showing that 60 percent of all immigrants to the
United States live in seven metropolitan areas. For immigrant Asians, the New
York metropolitan area, including New Jersey, is the second-largest population
center, after Los Angeles.

Nelson Chen, president of the Chen Agency in Fort Lee, said that while he wanted
to avoid stereotyping, he could nonetheless offer numerous general observations
about his mostly Asian and Russian clients and the way their respective cultures
affect choices about real estate:

''The Russians love Fort Lee,'' Mr. Chen said. ''They tend to seek that
combination of prestige, name recognition and chic lifestyle in the luxury condo
towers. While they are not as particular as some groups about living next door
to each other, many do specifically want to be in a community with a significant
Russian element.''

''Asians have always loved Fort Lee,'' Mr. Chen said, ''Lately, they've really
discovered Edgewater.'' Koreans, who settled in large numbers in Palisades Park
starting in the mid-1960's, when they were also clustering in Queens, currently
make up between 20 and 40 percent of Palisades Park's population. Those who can
afford to trade up and buy nicer homes after a while often move to places like
Edgewater, Mr. Chen said -- bringing their extended families along, in some
cases, or choosing to go it ''alone'' as the first Koreans in a building or on a
block.

In ''Suburban Sahibs,'' a book published late last year, the journalist S. Mitra
Kalita observed the same pattern, describing how some Indian immigrants are
comfortable living with only other Indians when they arrive, but later become
more open or produce American-born offspring who choose to leave the enclave for
the mainstream when they buy a house. Even many second-generation immigrant
families, though, choose to live among other Indians and simply move to a
different enclave from the one in which they grew up, she reported.

Speaking of the Japanese population in Bergen County, Mr. Chen said: ''They used
to only live in Fort Lee. Now they love Edgewater,'' because, he said, many feel
it caters more directly to today's needs.

''So many of the Japanese businessmen today are on five-year assignments,'' Mr.
Chen observed. ''They bring wives, who are usually nonworking spouses, and many
are intimidated about driving in this area. We have planted many of them at
Independence Harbor, where they don't have to drive,'' he said, referring to a
high-rise condominium development. ''There are shopping, restaurants, a big
ethnic supermarket, movies, boutiques all designed for Japanese people at the
Mitsuwa Marketplace right nearby.''

There is also a driving range next to Mitsuwa, which he said is very popular
with the Japanese.

A number of agency executives spoke of their efforts to reach out to immigrant
home seekers in their own first languages. Tom Kunz, chief executive of Century
21 based in Parsippany, said his agency has an agreement with AT&T and a
language school so that non-English speakers can communicate with agents by
keyboard in virtually any language or dialect if an agent who speaks their
language is not available. Mr. Kunz also spoke of a company goal of hiring
agents in each office to reflect the ethnic makeup of the community where they
sell houses.

Nancy Zaslowe, the manager of Weichert Realty's Fort Lee office, said she had 17
Korean agents in her office; some specialize in newly arrived home buyers, and
others serve various sectors of the population, including Asians who moved here
long ago and now seek to move to more affluent communities like Ridgewood,
Tenafly, Closter and Harrington Park. ''While some are not interested in living
near other Asians, they may still feel more comfortable looking for a home with
someone who understands their culture,'' she said.

Mr. Chen spoke of subtle and unusual aspects of selling homes to Asian
customers; these can range from arranging ''nonmortgage'' loans to finding a
house with the proper orientation to sunlight from each room.

Mr. Chen, who deliberately secured a telephone number for his office with a
plethora of 8's, a digit signifying prosperity to many Chinese, said he also
makes sure to put an 8 somewhere in the price of homes his agency lists. Chen
Agency employees are taught to pay close attention to the street address of a
property, too. ''For example, you do not want to try and sell a Chinese person a
house at 494 Main Street because phonetically, those numbers translate as 'death
forever death,''' Mr. Chen said.

''Some people take it very seriously,'' he said, ''and some just say 'whatever,'
but we need to be alert to their sensitivities.''

Mr. Chen said a couple of clients brought a feng shui master -- an expert in the
Chinese art of harmonious placement of objects and structures -- to a house he
was recently marketing in Englewood Cliffs. ''The master considered the house
number, the ZIP code, the direction the front door faced, and the living room
and kitchen, the general aura, and he told the family, 'If you move to this
house, your son will be unhealthy,' and they did not go forward with the
purchase,'' Mr. Chen recalled.

For Indian and Pakistani clients, the ancient science of Vaastu may hold sway,
said Parijata Sharma, an agent with Burgdorff ERA in Edison. ''It involves how a
house sits on a property, and whether the house makes maximum benefit of a
setting -- the sunlight, the energy, the magnetic fields,'' she said.

''I had a client,'' said Ms. Sharma, ''a doctor, who spent almost two years
finding a house with the proper orientation. It was important how the bedroom
faced, where the furnace was located. It can get very, very detailed.''

Ms. Sharma, who is Indian-American, speaks Hindi and understands Punjabi and a
bit of Gujarati. She said she did not try to fully understand Vaastu, but added,
''I always try to keep a compass in my car so I can check direction at a house,
so I can know right away whether it's any use to show it.''

Ms. Sharma said she has a number of Pakistani Muslims among her client base. One
large family she dealt with recently required a home situated within 13 miles of
a mosque, telling her that they believed their prayers could be heard and
answered only within that distance. Once the right house was found near the new
mosque in Edison, other branches of the family began calling her to shop for
homes in the neighborhood.

Some of her Muslim customers believe they are forbidden to pay interest on a
mortgage, Ms. Sharma said; this presents a challenge when they don't have enough
cash to cover a home purchase, ''Then, you have to take out what is called a
'lariba,' a loan providing replacement value for what the home could be rented
for and which is not actually a mortgage,'' she said. A few banks in her area do
offer such loans, according to Ms. Sharma.

A few developers have also begun to think in terms of projects that may
accommodate ethnic or religious clusters.

In Perth Amboy, for example, Westminster Communities is building a waterfront
condominium community with town homes set around central courtyards. The
majority of Perth Amboy's residents are Spanish-speaking, and Westminster's
president Sam Gershwin said the design seems to ''align well'' with their highly
neighborly cultures.

In addition, he noted, a local Orthodox Jewish synagogue, Congregation Shaarey
Tefiloh, has been promoting the new community to its younger members as a way to
keep the shrinking congregation alive. ''It's a perfect place for people who
want to live in close proximity to each other,'' Mr. Gershwin said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A NICHE IN EDGEWATER -- Jamie Katayama, an agent at the Chen
Agency, and Mariko Sano and her husband, Miharu, and their children at the
Mitsuwa Marketplace in Edgewater, where there is a large Japanese presence.
(Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hunt Turns Tragic, and Two Cultures Collide

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER and MONICA DAVEY; Stephen Kinzer reported from Dobie
for this article, and Monica Davey from St. Paul.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1953 words

DATELINE: DOBIE, Wis., Nov. 27


The two gatherings, less than 200 miles apart, seemed to be separated by whole
worlds.

In this isolated village deep in the pine and cedar woods of the Upper Midwest,
mourners trudged through falling snow on Friday to Our Lady of Lourdes Church to
remember one of six hunters, all locals, killed near here a week ago.

To the southwest, across the state line in Minnesota, thousands of Hmong
immigrants streamed into a downtown St. Paul auditorium for three days of New
Year's festivities with papaya salad, traditional courtship games and young
women in dresses covered in gently clinking coins that echoed through the halls.

The only link between the somber Wisconsin gathering, which followed the most
violent rampage in anyone's memory here, and the mostly festive Minnesota
gathering, one of the most important annual meetings for Hmong people, was a
shared concern: the depth of the scars left behind by the shootings last Sunday
that left six white hunters from the North Woods dead and a Hmong immigrant from
St. Paul in jail, accused in the deaths.

In three decades, St. Paul has drawn at least 25,000 Hmong immigrants,
transforming it into what they call the Hmong capital of America. Even there, it
has not always been an easy fit, with so many Hmong refugees arriving so
rapidly, often with no English and little education or urban job skills. The
Hmong are from large farming families in Laos, where the Central Intelligence
Agency recruited many of them to be part of an anti-Communist secret army in the
Vietnam War.

The northernmost edges of Wisconsin, meanwhile, are made up mostly of people of
European descent. Many come from Scandinavian, German, Czech and French Canadian
backgrounds.

For all their differences, the native Wisconsin residents and the Asian
immigrants from St. Paul share a love of hunting.

For generations of Wisconsin families, the deer season has come to mean a time
to bond with friends, to wander the woods and to pass along life's secrets to
the next generation. And for generations, those families had the woods mostly to
themselves. Then, about 30 years ago, came the Hmong, for whom hunting is one of
the rare realms in which America's fast-paced culture meshes neatly with their
old ways.

Hmong elders have come to use hunting as a chance to share at least one rural
cultural tradition with the youngest among them, some of whom never saw the
hills of Laos.

In the November deer season, the two groups have often met in the woods and
sometimes clashed, but mostly quietly until last Sunday. Some said they feared
those tensions would now grow amid raw feelings of intrusion on one side and
exclusion on the other.

In Wisconsin, mourners said they were still dazed by what occurred after a group
of local hunters confronted Chai Soua Vang, 36, of St. Paul, who, the police
say, was using their tree stand to hunt on their property.

The police say Mr. Vang, a naturalized citizen and former Army national
guardsman who immigrated 24 years ago, opened fire on the hunting party after he
was told to leave.

Waiting for the start of Friday's funeral service for Mark Roidt, 28, one man
turned to another and said, ''This is going to be a horrible week.''

His friend replied, ''The worst week ever.''

Mike Katterhagen, another mourner, said he and many of his neighbors felt anger
about what happened, but added, ''I don't know if you can place it at who.''

Asked if people here had a negative attitude toward Asians or people of other
races, Mr. Katterhagen replied, ''Personally, I don't.'' Then he added, ''Some
people, I think, may have it.''

In St. Paul, many at the Hmong New Year events said they feared retribution for
the killings. Some said they would not hunt for a while. Many said they were
embarrassed by the acts another Hmong-American was accused of, but the case also
made them recall experiences with ethnic misunderstanding.

Some said they wondered whether there was more to the case -- and thought they
might have gained some understanding when they learned Mr. Vang had told the
police that the local hunters used ethnic slurs against him and fired at him
before he started shooting. A police statement by a hunter wounded in the
incident makes no mention of ethnic slurs.

''I mostly ignore what people call me, but it does hurt,'' said Va Pao Xiong, a
college student in Wisconsin who was celebrating the New Year in St. Paul on
Friday. ''They have called me 'chink' and things like that. And it makes you
wonder whether they even understand who the Hmong people are, where we come
from, or what we've been through.''

Like many others here, Mr. Xiong, who is 24, has distinct and painful memories
of his family's flight from Laos. After Communists won power there, the Hmong
people, who had rescued downed American pilots and fought North Vietnamese
soldiers, said they found themselves under attack and began fleeing through the
jungles, escaping across the Mekong River and ending up as refugees in Thailand
and elsewhere.

In part as a show of gratitude for their sacrifice in the Vietnam War, the
United States has allowed tens of thousands of Hmong people to come here.

This year, as many as 15,000 Hmong refugees still waiting at a bleak camp in
Thailand called Wat Tham Krabok were granted permission to come to this country.
In the past few months, some of them have moved to St. Paul, a city of 300,000.

The new arrivals brought new questions to City Hall from some residents: how
could the city, in tough budget times, afford to help more Hmong refugees,
especially those who lacked adequate medical, educational and psychological help
for years at the camp in Thailand?

A city analysis in January found that 34 percent of Hmong families in St. Paul
had incomes below the poverty level in the year 2000, compared with 31 percent
in the black community and 20 percent among Hispanics. In September, a poll
conducted by The Pioneer Press and Minnesota Public Radio found that
Minnesotans, by 42 percent to 37 percent, believed that the cost of helping
immigrants start their new lives outweighed their economic, social and other
contributions.

Then came the events of last Sunday.

''It's difficult to be Hmong-American right now,'' said Mee Moua, a Hmong in the
Minnesota State Senate. ''There's an expectation that the Hmong-American
community ought to be answerable, or ought to be responsible for this one man's
action.''

Ms. Moua said that was absurd: ''Don't hold our community to blame for something
one individual has done.''

That sentiment was echoed in Wisconsin, where some mourners, like John Zoellick,
said they had not heard any negative comments or slurs against Asians or Hmong
people in the days since the killings.

''Any negative feeling is directed toward the one individual, since he did
something that is just totally inexcusable,'' Mr. Zoellick said. ''It's not
aimed against any group.''

Nearly everyone interviewed at the New Year celebrations in St. Paul said they
had experienced name-calling at some point. Elee Vang, a 19-year-old who is Miss
Deaf Minnesota, said she was once spit at by a white boy on a bus. Workers at
Tswvtxos Yang's old manufacturing job used to call him Bruce Lee, he said.

Many said they had been called by the very names Mr. Vang told police the white
hunters hollered at him.

In Laos, hunting was a crucial part of the culture and important for survival,
said Cha Vang, the son of Gen. Vang Pao, who worked closely with the C.I.A. in
the war and who remains a revered leader of Hmong people in America. (Thousands
rose and cheered him in St. Paul when he arrived in the auditorium for New Year
festivities.)

''It was different in Laos though,'' said Mr. Vang, who is no relation to Chai
Soua Vang. ''You could hunt all year round and there was all public lands.''

The restrictions in this country have led to conflicts, with some white people
complaining that Hmong people ignore or are unable to read fishing limits,
clothing rules and permit requirements.

On the other side, Hmong hunters have complained about mistreatment and
harassment by white hunters. Since last Sunday, Ms. Moua said she had received
so many reports of such incidents that she was considering calling for public
hearings on the issue.

Tou Ger Xiong, a Hmong comedian, rapper and motivational speaker from St. Paul,
said his father, who speaks little English, was once approached by a white
hunter who simply demanded his gun. He said another white hunter ordered his
brother to leave a tree stand he had built on public land, and threatened to use
a chainsaw to tear it down.

But people in Wisconsin said that complaints by some Asian hunters of insults or
harassment from white hunters were exaggerated.

''I haven't heard any anger against the Hmong,'' said Patty Behrndt, manager of
a bookstore in Rice Lake, the main town in this part of the North Woods. ''Not
anger, just disbelief and confusion. People aren't able to make out why or how.
You hear talk now about racism, but I don't see it.''

Laurel Steffes, a spokeswoman for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources,
said she was unaware of tensions between Hmong and white hunters.

''We've had our ear to the ground since this happened,'' she said, ''and we're
not picking up on that at all.''

The mourning continued on Saturday, as a funeral for two more of the victims,
Robert Crotteau, 42, and his 20-year-old son, Joey, was held in Rice Lake. The
Crotteau family is large and well established here, with the local telephone
directory showing 30 listings for that name.

Some arriving mourners said they were still too much in shock to analyze what
had happened.

''It's just all so stunning,'' said one mourner, who gave his name as Aaron.
''There's hardly anything else you can feel, not at this point.''

In addition to the six people killed, two men were wounded in the shooting. Both
attended Mr. Roidt's service on Friday. One of them, Lauren Hesebeck, who wore a
blue sling to support his wounded left arm, has told the police that Mr. Vang
fired the first shots, according to a police document.

All of the victims lived in or near Rice Lake, a town of 8,300 where many people
have known each other since school days, and most of the rest came to escape
crowds and enjoy rural life.

In Rice Lake, Greg Swanson and his daughter were hanging lights on their outdoor
Christmas tree. Mr. Swanson said he and other people here were ''waiting for
someone to take us from this unreal situation to some kind of explanation of why
a guy would just open up like that.''

Along Main Street this weekend, ribbons of bright orange, the color of hunters'
jackets, hung above Christmas wreaths.

With more funerals running through the weekend and into Monday, Larry Jarvela,
the mayor of Rice Lake, was still groping for an explanation.

''It's so senseless,'' he said. ''Why did it have to happen?''

''We don't have any population of Asians,'' Mr. Jarvela said, and Census
statistics largely bear him out. Here in Barron County, the 2000 census counted
just 145 people of Asian descent, less than 1 percent of the population.

Mr. Jarvela said he had never heard about clashes between white and nonwhite
hunters, but he added that because northern Wisconsin was very large, ''if you
happen to have an incident, nobody knows about it.''

At last count, a week ago, nearly 645,000 hunting licenses had been issued in
this state for the nine-day regular gun season that ends on Sunday. In just the
first two days, hunters reported bagging 140,000 deer, Ms. Steffes said.

The Rice Lake City Council here may soon consider a proposal to rename a city
park in honor of the six people killed, Mr. Jarvela said. The likely choice for
a new name is Hunters' Park.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gao Hmo Yang waited to appear in a beauty pageant on Friday at
Hmong New Year's festivities in St. Paul. The event lasts three days. (Photo by
Ingrid Young for The New York Times)
 Mourners after the funeral of Mark Roidt on Friday in Dobie, Wis. Mr. Roidt was
one of six people killed in a hunting dispute last week. Many at the funeral
said they were still dazed by the news of the shootings. (Photo by Ann
Heisenfelt/Associated Press)(pg. 44)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Editors' Note

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Editors' Note; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 50 words


Because of a production error, the City section, a special issue on the
immigrant experience, was omitted from some copies last Sunday. Readers who
would like that section sent to them may e-mail thecity@nytimes.com. Please
include a postal address.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editors' Note

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 29, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Start-Up Television Venture Is Aiming Its Programming at American Muslims

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MediaTalk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 389 words


On many nights in the living rooms of Muslim families across the United States,
parents and grandparents who immigrated here are tuned in to Arabic television
stations like Al Jazeera or PTV, the state-run Pakistan Television, while in
another room their Americanized, English-speaking children are watching ''The
Apprentice'' or CNN.

Tomorrow, broadcasts of Bridges TV, an English-language network with programming
aimed at American Muslims, will begin. The network's president and chief
executive, Muzzammil S. Hassan, said that he and his investors believed that
there was a market among viewers looking for wholesome programs with Muslim
themes.

''When we did our research, we found that the foreign-language channels like Al
Jazeera appeal primarily to the immigrant parents, and not their U.S.-born
children,'' said Mr. Hassan, who left his job as a vice president at a bank to
start the network. ''Their programming is all about life back home, and not life
in North America.''

''The primary purpose of Bridges TV,'' he said, ''is to build bridges of
understanding between American Muslims and mainstream America, as well as to
provide unique programming needs that American Muslims have.''

Programming is intended to appeal to all generations of Muslims in the United
States and Canada and includes news, comedy and even a soap opera -- about a
Muslim daughter who vexes her parents by deciding to marry outside the faith.

The programs will originate from many sources, including independent producers,
the BBC and cable channels, said Jamilah Fraser, the programming director for
Bridges TV. Only the daily news program will be produced internally, she said.

Financing comes from more than 50 private investors and Ropart Asset Management,
a private equity fund. In an unusual arrangement, more than 10,000 American
Muslims contributed $10 a month in the last year to support the venture and to
demonstrate a demand for such programming, Mr. Hassan said.

Studies estimating the number of Muslims in the United States have produced a
wide range -- from two to nine million. Bridges TV will broadcast from Buffalo,
and will be available through GlobeCast World TV, a satellite provider, as well
as on broadband, the Internet, and in a few weeks, on cable in Detroit and in
the Toledo area in Ohio and Michigan.   LAURIE GOODSTEIN


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muzzammil Hassan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 29, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

L.I. Clash on Immigrants Is Gaining Political Force

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2051 words


Everywhere Steve Levy went last year in his successful campaign for Suffolk
County executive, he said, he heard the same complaints. A new wave of Hispanic
immigrants had swept Long Island, and many residents were furious about the
overcrowded homes and lines of day laborers they saw in their towns. They told
Mr. Levy they wanted action.

This month, Mr. Levy floated a proposal to deputize some Suffolk County police
officers, giving them the power to detain people found to be in the United
States illegally after being taken into custody on other charges. Right now,
Suffolk police and corrections officers say, they are prohibited from asking
immigrants whether they are in the country legally. Mr. Levy's proposal, which
he later amended, was met by objections from the police unions.

Mr. Levy said his intent was to fight crime by focusing the effort on criminals
like gang members, not ordinary immigrants. But advocacy groups and residents of
Suffolk and Nassau Counties say the proposal is a sign of the times. They say
the issue of illegal immigration is rapidly gathering political force in Long
Island's patchwork of historically white suburban hamlets, and as the complaints
grow, politicians are responding with get-tough rhetoric, crackdowns and new
laws.

''Public opinion has changed,'' said Sue Grant, one of several Farmingville
residents who rise each morning to stand on street corners and demonstrate
against the day laborers in their community. ''More and more people are coming
forward and saying, 'I'm sick of this.' They don't want this anymore.''

It is the latest knot in Long Island's wrenching struggle to digest the
thousands of Hispanic immigrants -- many of them day laborers -- who have
arrived in the past decade and at a record pace in the last three years, drawn
by jobs in construction and landscaping and other blue-collar work. One result
is a commensurate strain on public services like schools, garbage collection and
sewer systems in an area where residents pay some of the highest taxes in the
country.

Communities across the nation -- from Mesa, Ariz., to Hoover, Ala., to Freehold,
N.J. -- have faced similar struggles. Day laborers have been shut out and
demonstrated against, and have become the targets of political campaigns. There
has been tension in many villages and cities and violence in isolated spots. But
observers and local politicians said that rarely has the fight seemed so bitter
or raged so long as on Long Island, where violence has erupted in recent years
and Mr. Levy's proposal is just one of many with support from politicians and
residents.

Long Island's stratified hamlets and villages, its history of segregation by
race and by economic status, its need for cheap laborers to do work rejected by
others and its lack of rental housing have set a unique stage for this fight,
experts said.

''People came here in the 50's and 60's and early 70's thinking they were
getting away from the problems of the city,'' said Stefan Krieger, who runs
Hofstra University's Housing Rights Clinic. ''In the city, with diversity, you
celebrate it. Out here, not at all. You see different-color people on the street
and for some reason, there's some dissonance.''

That dissonance is growing louder, its tone more varied. While some communities
like Glen Cove and Freeport have arranged for hiring halls for the day laborers
who line street corners, others have roundly rejected the idea.

Farmingdale has stepped up traffic enforcement to discourage contractors from
picking up day laborers, and several village officials say they are planning to
demolish apartments that they say are chock full of immigrants. They argue that
the buildings are rife with code violations and not worth preserving.

The Town of Brookhaven has set up an informal task force to investigate code
violations and complaints about homes crowded with day laborers. A town
councilwoman, Geraldine Esposito, said she was searching for ways to tighten the
town's Neighborhood Preservation Act, further limiting the number of people in a
home. ''We're trying to solve a problem that's almost unsolvable for the town,''
she said. ''Where are these men going to go? They should go back home to where
their home is. There is no pot of gold here unless they can do it legally.''

Campaigns for village and town offices have ramped up their rhetoric, promising
to do everything possible to get day laborers off the streets.

Local officials say their actions and ideas are necessary, fair and colorblind.
They said they are not singling out Hispanic immigrants, but are trying to break
up the networks of overcrowded homes, unlicensed contractors and absentee
landlords that exploit day laborers.

''It's been ignored, totally ignored,'' said Mr. Levy, a Democrat who was
elected on a platform of fiscal austerity and better management of the county,
on the eastern end of Long Island, and its roughly 1.5 million residents. ''It's
led to workers being exploited, houses being overcrowded and legitimate
businesses going under. There's an undercurrent of frustration within the
majority of Suffolk residents.''

But laborers and advocacy groups say the new policies and aggressive rhetoric
are coded attempts to drive Latino immigrants underground or off Long Island.
They see parallels between policies denying black families homes in Levittown
after World War II and a proposed law in Suffolk County asking federal officials
to enforce immigration laws.

''It's like we're going backwards,'' said Irma Solis, an organizer at the
Workplace Project, a Hispanic advocacy group in Farmingville. ''It's another
wave of attacks against the immigrant community.''

Paul Tonna of Huntington, a Republican member of the Suffolk County Legislature,
is a veteran of these wars. He defended day laborers, tried unsuccessfully to
pass legislation to set up a hiring hall for them and earned many enemies in the
process. Now leaving office because of term limits, Mr. Tonna says he has been
asking himself, why Long Island?

One reason experts cite is persistent segregation on Long Island, named the
country's most segregated suburb in a 2002 study by David Rusk, a consultant who
analyzes suburban segregation patterns. In the 1950's and 60's, discriminatory
practices by lenders, real estate agents and builders steered minorities and
whites to different communities.

Today, there are villages -- like Garden City and Hempstead, Copiague and
Amityville -- that sit next to each other, but have nearly opposite racial
compositions.

Still, Mr. Tonna said, ''It's not just bigotry. It's an economic issue.''

Most of the problems bubbled up in heavily white, blue-collar communities --
places where new immigrants, many of them upwardly mobile, could barely get a
foothold. In wealthy East Hampton, the quarrels over immigration and code
violations are not centered in the wealthy beachfront enclaves but in Springs, a
middle-class neighborhood.

Long Island's Hispanic population grew by about 70 percent in a decade,
according to the 2000 census. Between 2000 and 2003, it grew even faster, with
the number of Hispanic residents of Suffolk jumping by 20 percent. That
translates into an average of 10,387 people per year, compared with about 6,500
people per year during the 1990's.

Many newcomers are here illegally or on temporary visas, but there is no
definitive data on their numbers.

Immigrants arrived in droves in relatively small communities, making it
impossible for residents to ignore their new neighbors. Some 80 percent of Long
Islanders own their homes, and there are few rental apartments, so laborers are
often crammed into single-family homes.

And thanks to the island's relatively weak labor unions, they can find work by
standing on street corners, Mr. Tonna said.

Some towns took the change in stride; others rejected it outright, with angry
residents attending town and county legislative meetings to complain that the
influx of immigrants has brought noise violations, littering, people drinking
and urinating in public and driveways crammed with cars. They videotaped crowds
of day laborers and staged demonstrations.

The tension first flared into violence in 2000, when two men posing as
contractors kidnapped two Farmingville day laborers and beat them with a
crowbar. In July 2003, a group of teenagers set fire to the house of a Mexican
family in Farmingville.

Governments have responded to residents' complaints with bills intended either
to accommodate the immigrants or to clamp down on them. There does not appear to
be any particular geographical pattern to the measures. One community's anxiety
does not necessarily seem to spread. Officials from various towns have proposed
limiting the number of people in a house, banning the hiring of day laborers off
the street and requiring identification from anyone using a village park.

But few ideas over the years have drawn as much fire as the one Mr. Levy first
broached publicly about three weeks ago to give Suffolk police officers the
authority to detain illegal immigrants taken into custody for a variety of
offenses.

After a meeting last week with representatives of Hispanic groups, Mr. Levy
changed his plan, proposing instead to give corrections officers broader powers
in enforcing immigration laws and access to federal databases. He said he would
also ask Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials to assign three federal
agents to the county to help identify and deport illegal immigrants in police
custody.

If his plan is approved by federal officials, Mr. Levy said, the corrections
officers would be trained by the Department of Homeland Security. They would not
pluck immigrants off the street or sweep neighborhoods, he said, but would keep
those charged with a crime in jail rather than allowing them to post bail.

Of the 23,150 arrests made by Suffolk police last year, 2,349 were of
noncitizens. Mr. Levy said his proposal would increase the number of inmates who
are handed over to federal immigration authorities, currently fewer than a dozen
each year. His original plan was opposed by the Suffolk Police Benevolent
Association, whose president, Jeff Frayler, said it would chill the relationship
between immigrants and the police and make illegal immigrants less likely to
report crimes. Mr. Levy said the plan would not apply to people whose illegal
status was discovered while they were reporting crimes.

Despite criticism from Mr. Levy's own Hispanic Advisory Board, Mr. Frayler said,
the county executive tapped a wealth of public support just by making the
proposal.

''I think it's much larger than anyone could have believed,'' he said, ''and
Levy's catering to that crew.''

This summer, Mr. Levy ordered a police sting operation to catch unlicensed
contractors, many of whom hire day laborers. He said that during the next phase,
police would ask contractors to produce federal I-9 forms, proving that their
employees are legally authorized to work.

The new mayor of Farmingdale, George Graf, whose campaign literature attacked
the former incumbent, Joseph Trudden -- accusing him of allowing ''our streets
to be overrun with day laborers hanging out on our corners'' -- has stepped up
fines against drivers who stop on Conklin Street, formerly a popular spot to
pick up day laborers. Mr. Graf said the crowds have thinned as officers have
issued tickets with $100 fines.

The new administration has also rekindled a plan to spend $6 million to $14
million to acquire six acres of land on Secatogue Avenue, where many Hispanic
residents live in decrepit apartments near the Long Island Rail Road tracks,
raze the buildings and replace them with condominiums for the elderly. ''It will
be before the public in the first quarter'' of 2005, said the village attorney,
Greg Carman. ''This is going to move.''

Residents of the apartment complex, which is privately owned, said that their
ceilings leak, that their floors are caving in and that fetid smells drift up
from the basement, but that they have few other places to move. Many were
suspicious of the village's motives.

''It's very hard to rent a house without papers,'' said Ana Maria Cabrera, 22,
who works in a shoe store in Northport. ''If they are moving us from one place
to another, it obviously means they don't want us around.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Code enforcement officers in Farmingdale, N.Y., patrol for
drivers who stop illegally to pick up day laborers. (Photo by Librado Romero/The
New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Dave Drew is among many Farmingville residents who have taken to the streets to
protest illegal immigrants. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg.
B4)Chart/Map: ''A New Wave of Immigration''Long Island has had an influx of
immigrants, most of them Hispanic.Maps of Long Island in 1990 and 2000 showing
the percentage of foreign born residents by census tract.(Source by Queens
College Department of Sociology, based on Census 2000 data)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 2, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plea Deal for Man Who Forced Russians to Work in Strip Clubs

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Dec. 1


Before F.B.I. agents arrested him in August 2002, Lev Trakhtenberg, a
Russian-born producer and promoter living in Brooklyn, had spent about four
years bringing Russian dancers, singers and actors to America. They performed
before Russian audiences in New York, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and other
cities.

During the same time, prosecutors say, Mr. Trakhtenberg, 40, engaged in some
illicit moonlighting: bringing at least 25 Russian women to Brooklyn on
fraudulent visas, forcing them to dance nude in strip clubs in New Jersey and
taking $1,200 apiece from their weekly earnings.

In a plea deal with the United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J.
Christie, Mr. Trakhtenberg pleaded guilty on Wednesday to a single charge of
conspiring to engage in forced labor, immigration violations and visa fraud.
After an appearance in Federal District Court, he seemed both proud and wistful
as he briefly discussed his ''pretty successful'' promotion business with the
touring performers. He refused to say anything about the crimes, which have left
him facing at least five years in federal prison. He also refused to discuss the
money he had collected from the women.

Federal authorities say they do not know for certain how much he took. But they
estimate that the amount ranged from $249,600 to $374,400 a year between late
1999, when the scheme started, and August 2002, when Mr. Trakhtenberg was
arrested. Generally, they said, he kept four to six women at a time in sparsely
furnished Brooklyn apartments. After a few months, they would be allowed to
return to Russia, and a new group of four to six would replace them, the
officials said.

Mr. Trakhtenberg's wife, Viktoriya I'lina, and a friend, Sergey Malchikov, were
arrested with him in 2002 and charged with the same crimes. Mr. Malchikov
pleaded guilty in August to one count of conspiracy and faces a five-year
sentence. Officials declined to say whether Ms. I'lina had been offered a plea
bargain. No date has been set for her trial.

An assistant United States attorney, Leslie Faye Schwartz, said most of the
women involved in the case were teachers, accountants, nurses and other educated
professionals. Ms. Schwartz said that those jobs paid little in Russia and that
the women believed they could earn more in the United States. She said they were
all told that their jobs in America would involve dancing, either burlesque or
topless. They were not told that they would be forced to dance nude in the strip
clubs, which included Frank's Chicken House in Manville and Delilah's Den in
South Amboy, officials said.

Ms. Schwartz said many of the women had returned to their homes in Russia. A
few, she said, married and remain in the United States.

During Wednesday's hearing before Judge John C. Lifland, Mr. Trakhtenberg
admitted that he used fear and intimidation to force the women to surrender
weekly payments of $1,200, in installments of $200, for each of six workdays. He
said they were threatened with harm and told that family members back home would
be hurt. They were also told that money was owed to mobsters in Russia, Mr.
Trakhtenberg said.

As part of the plea deal, Mr. Trakhtenberg agreed to forfeit $25,575 that,
officials said, F.B.I. agents found hidden in the ceiling of his Brooklyn
apartment when he was arrested. The plea deal also allows for a fine of $250,000
or twice the amount he collected through criminal acts, whichever is larger.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Calling Off the Dogs

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1896 words

DATELINE: PATERSON


IN a pattern of abuse over the past three years, prison officials allowed guard
dogs to intimidate, attack, and in at least two instances bite immigrant
detainees at the Passaic County Jail here overseen by the Department of Homeland
Security, according to former prisoners and internal jail documents.

Last week, federal officials said they would no longer send detainees to
facilities that use dogs to patrol their jails. ''It has been our determination
that we will not endorse the use of K-9's to manage detention populations,''
said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the federal Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, adding that ''there are other mechanisms in place that will work
just as effectively, if not more so.''

Moreover, the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the bureau, said
it had begun to review the treatment of immigrant detainees nationwide.

Responding to the federal agency's concerns, officials at the Passaic County
Jail said that dogs would no longer patrol inside the jail. ''We're going
through a trial period,'' said Bill Maer, a spokesman for Gerald Speziale, the
county sheriff. ''But the department will not agree to anything that even
remotely jeopardizes the safety of the personnel that work in the facility or
the safety of inmates. We'll work with the contracting agency in a manner that
works for both agencies. They had asked for some modifications in our policies,
and we're certainly accommodating them.''

While the use of police dogs at jails and prisons is not unusual, their activity
is largely limited to searching for drugs and explosives. Currently, 81 jails
and prisons around the country that house federal immigrant detainees employ the
use of dogs, while only 7 of the facilities use them to control prisoners. As
for the Passaic County Jail, the warden, Charles Meyers, said 20 dogs, mostly
German shepherds, had patrolled the facility for the past 24 years.

Although Mr. Knocke did not deny that incidents had occurred, he said that the
timing of the announcement and reports of abuse by National Public Radio were
''a matter of coincidence'' -- even though the new policy was announced a day
after the first of two reports were broadcast.

Immigration advocates, lawyers and civil rights groups said they had been
questioning the treatment of the detainees for several years. The prisoners are
held for a variety of reasons, ranging from overstaying visas to minor drug
possession charges to committing major felonies -- and are awaiting deportation.

In one incident involving the guard dogs and witnessed by 10 corrections
officers, an internal report from the Passaic County Sheriff's Department said,
a 29-year-old Cuban inmate, Rosendo Lewis-Oropesa, had raised a clenched fist at
an officer, cursed, and tried to swing and kick at him.

According to the report, ''The inmate attempted to get up when K-9 officer
Tangorra stepped in with his K-9. The K-9 bit the inmate on his left forearm.''

Mr. Lewis-Oropesa, who has lived in Miami, Manhattan and Brooklyn and has served
time for armed robbery, is still being held at the Passaic County Jail. He was
transferred there this spring from Riker's Island.

In a telephone interview from the jail, he said that the dispute arose around 8
a.m. in May when he questioned guards who ordered that televisions be turned off
because not all of the detainees were present for roll call. But he denied
making threats or raising his fist at the officers.

''He pulled me out with nine officers, that's when the beatings started,'' said
Mr. Lewis-Oropesa of one officer. ''At one point one guy was twisting my leg,
twisting my foot. So I got up. That's when they grabbed me by my right hand,
pinned me up against the wall with my face to the wall. My left side was
exposed. And that's when the K-9 officer said. 'Let him bite him. Let him bite
him.' He had no reason to let the dog bite me. I was restrained. The dog bit me
on my leg, and I put my arm in the way and he clamped down on my arm and I
started screaming. And I heard people in the cells going 'Oh my god.' And they
said, 'Stop resisting!' I said, 'I'm not resisting!' And they threw me on the
ground and put their knee on my back.''

In February, another detainee, Luis Valdez, says he was bitten in the back.

Still, Mr. Lewis-Oropesa said that conditions at the jail improved after the
incident involving him occurred.

Despite the decision to stop using the dogs, officials at the Passaic County
Jail defended their use, and said the age and condition of the jail necessitated
their presence.

''We utilized the dogs as part of our operation because of the fact we have an
institution that has deficiencies, and the utilization of dogs worked into that
overall plan,'' said Mr. Maer, the spokesman for the jail.

Mr. Meyers, the warden, put it this way: ''There's a lot of question as to
whether or not he should have been bitten, but you have to realize this is not
an easy job. We're not dealing with Boy Scouts at a summer camp. There are
hardened criminals here.''

A report last year issued by the Justice Department's inspector general gave the
facility high marks and said that it ''had much different (and significantly
less harsh) detention experiences'' than those in Brooklyn, where conditions
have been described as grim.

In addition to the biting incidents, many former inmates spoke of surprise
late-night inspections, or what officials here call ''shakedowns.'' During those
inspections, they said, dogs were brought into the cells and the inmates were
ordered out of their beds. For several minutes, they said, officers would search
their beds and clothing for contraband while officers handling the dogs would
often loosen their grip on the leash and allow the dogs to snap.

Dogs 'Come Rushing Up'

 ''They'd come at 2, usually 1,'' Hemnauth Mohabir, 43, an air-conditioning
repairman and former detainee now living in Guyana, said in a telephone
interview, ''and the dogs would come rushing up on you. They'd have the dog jump
in and you couldn't turn your head around to see what's going on. The dog is
going back and forth, back and forth, and is jumping and growling at you.''

Akhil Sahchdeva, a 32-year-old Indian national now living in Toronto and who was
in the jail from December 2001 to May 2002, said in a telephone interview that
the dogs were released and allowed to snap just a foot from his face before
being yanked back ''just to make you afraid or terrorized.''

''The dogs used to bark in your face, and you'd get really scared,'' Mr.
Sahchdeva said. ''I remember everyone was sleeping. Then suddenly, officers
stormed in, they told us to get outside, and the dogs started barking on us.''

Mr. Sahchdeva also said that convicted felons were regularly housed with
immigrant detainees, and that on one occasion he was punched in the face by one
of them while the guards stood by and watched. In 2003, the Justice Department
inspector general's report concluded that many of the detainees were mingled
with violent criminals, a violation of detention standards.

Mr. Mohabir's former attorney, Bryan Lonegan of the New York Legal Aid, said
that on one visit to the jail, he was startled when a dog snapped at his face.
Later, Mr. Lonegan said, he saw the same dog with a K-9 officer, who allowed it
to snap at a detainee mopping the floor.

''The biggest complaint was always the dogs,'' Mr. Lonegan said.

For their part, jail officials contended that there was no policy to intimidate
the detainees.

''Yes, the dogs bark,'' Mr. Meyers said. ''But we never use them to terrorize
people, as has been alleged. This isn't a torture chamber. This is a modern-day
jail.''

Mr. Maer, the spokesman for Mr. Speziale, said he was skeptical of some of the
claims. ''I'm only going to draw conclusions on real evidence or facts,'' he
said. ''Just because Detainee One allegedly says that Detainee Two said, 'Yeah,
that happened,' doesn't mean it happened. In the past, when we've had cases
where our personnel have acted inappropriately, they have been charged
internally or criminally.''

Brian Bendl, the deputy warden, said that while four corrections officers had
been brought up on criminal charges in the past three years, none had to do with
the current accusations, and that the jail did not plan to discipline any of the
officers involved in the recent events.

'A Great Deterrent'

 The Passaic County Sheriff's Web site offers the following explanation about
the presence of dogs at the jail: ''K-9 teams escort inmates on all mass
movements and otherwise patrol all areas throughout the facility. Their mere
presence is a great deterrent to would-be troublemakers or the infiltration of
narcotics.''

The Department of Homeland Security, formed in the aftermath of the Sept. 11
attacks, enters into what are called Intergovernmental Service Agreements with
counties to hold federal immigration detainees in local facilities. The federal
government pays for local governments to house the detainees until they are
deported, and has oversight of the treatment of detainees.

The Passaic facility, built in 1956, has about 1,900 beds and houses, on
average, around 200 detainees for which it is reimbursed $77 a day, though that
total exceeded 400 in the aftermath of Sept. 11.

According to some detainees, the alleged abuse has not been limited to the
Passaic County Jail, but has also occurred at the Hudson County Correction
Center in Kearny.

An Egyptian immigrant, Sadek Awaed was beaten severely by a guard in March. In a
telephone interview from Egypt, Mr. Awaed, a former Jersey City cab driver, said
the incident began when another detainee, Fathi Ganmi, began arguing with a
guard. The guard began beating Mr. Ganmi, Mr. Awaed said, and then ordered
everyone back into their cells. He said he started to make his way back to his
cell, but was slowed by recent knee surgery.

''He punched me in the face and in my lips,'' said Mr. Awaed. I said, 'Give me
one second, cuz.'''

He said the guard cursed at him and said, ''Stop faking.''

''He pushed me down on the floor,'' Mr. Awaed said. ''He started kicking me.
There were 12, 15 of them, but 2 was holding me down. He was kicking me in the
face and in my neck. I said, 'Do whatever you want, but stay away from knee, I
just had an operation.' After they finished beating me up, they pushed me
against the wall. When I fell down I was dizzy, and blood started coming out of
my nose and mouth.''

Treated for Injuries

 Hospital records show that Mr. Awaed and Mr. Ganmi were treated for wounds that
day --Mr. Awaed for injuries to the neck and back and Mr. Ganmi for injuries to
the testicular area and a chipped tooth.

Hudson officials say that Mr. Awaed had been a problematic inmate, and had been
placed in confinement two weeks before the incident for trying to incite a riot.

A spokesman for the county, Jim Kennelly, said that an internal review of the
incident had just been completed, and that the two guards directly involved
would be dismissed, and those who witnessed the beating would be retrained.

''Everyone is very displeased and upset that this happened,'' Mr. Kennelly said.

But he insisted that it was only ''one incident'' and the case should not be
interpreted as evidence of a chronic problem at the jail

''It's an unfortunate black eye,'' Mr. Kennelly said, ''because these guys lost
control of themselves.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''The dogs would come rushing up on you,'' Hemnauth Mohabir,
43, a former detainee living in Guyana, said of the surprise visits late at
night. (Photo by Daniel Zwerdling/National Public Radio)(pg. 1)
 Responding to federal concerns, officials at the Passaic County Jail said that
dogs would no longer patrol inside the facility. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The
New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 6, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

America's Door: Tales From the Immigration Front

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 168 words



To the Editor:

Re ''The Line of No Return'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 29):

Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie indicates that the indignities of the United States
immigration process are reserved for dark-skinned peoples in former colonies.

I wish she could have seen how I, a native-born American with my would-be
immigrant husband and our American-citizen daughter, a restless toddler, spent
five hours crammed into a similar soulless waiting room in New York two weeks
ago, five years after our marriage and innumerable fees costing over $10,000.

An immigration officer as bombastic and insensitive as the one in Nigeria dashed
our hopes of a normal life, informing us that once again, one of our files was
lost and there was no telling when it would be found.

I empathize with the foreign students who can't understand why a country famed
for its openness should treat them so shabbily.

Perhaps they would be surprised that United States citizens, too, are not immune
from such treatment.

Cassandra Cavanaugh
New York, Nov. 29, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 6, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

America's Door: Tales From the Immigration Front

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 189 words



To the Editor:

Draconian immigration policies are keeping more than foreign university students
out of the United States (''You Can't Get There From Here,'' by Joseph S. Nye
Jr., Op-Ed, Nov. 29). These policies also exclude scientists, humanists and
artists.

It is now virtually impossible to hold an international conference, colloquium
or symposium in the United States, or to invite the great scholars and artists
of the world to take up academic posts here.

The few distinguished non-American invitees who have dared run the gantlet of
assistant United States consuls, only to emerge from the ordeal without a visa,
have told of their humiliating experiences, effectively discouraging anyone else
in their homelands from even trying to make the effort to come.

This creates a spiral of despair and failure both for the invitees and for those
American cultural and educational institutions that would so richly benefit from
mutual collaboration with the great minds and talents of the planet.

William O. Beeman
San Jose, Calif., Nov. 29, 2004

The writer is a visiting professor of cultural and social anthropology, Stanford
University.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Chains Agree in Suit Over Janitors' Wages and Hours

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 856 words


Three of the largest supermarket chains in California have reached a tentative
$22.4 million settlement in a class-action suit by immigrant janitors who said
they often earned $3.50 an hour and were never paid overtime, the two sides said
yesterday.

The chains -- Albertsons, Ralphs and Vons -- tentatively settled the suit by
2,100 janitors, mostly from Mexico. Many said they worked 70 or more hours a
week, often seven nights a week from 10 p.m. to 9 a.m.

The companies had originally said they should face no liability, pointing out
that their cleaning contractors, and not the stores, employed the janitors. The
companies tentatively agreed to the accord after a federal judge rejected their
motion to dismiss the suit. They had said they were not joint employers along
with the cleaning contractor.

Representatives of the janitors said Judge Percy Anderson of Federal District
Court in Los Angeles had been expected to approve the settlement yesterday. But
in a hearing, Judge Anderson said he was postponing approval, perhaps until Jan.
24, because Albertsons had not posted notices about the proposed settlement in
its California stores to inform the cleaners.

When the suit began in 2000 on behalf of 600 janitors, Albertsons; Ralphs, part
of Kroger; and Vons, part of Safeway, said they had little to do with the
janitors, saying the workers were the responsibility of the contractor. The
janitors also sued Encompass Services, the principal contractor, which has gone
bankrupt.

Company officials declined to comment yesterday, saying they did not want to
talk until a final settlement had been reached.

The janitors' advocates said the suit was important to help check a trend in
which thousands of employers relied on contractors who often broke the law,
while the major companies insisted that they knew nothing of the violations.

''Many companies use contractors as a way of avoiding liability,'' the director
of the U.C.L.A. Labor Center, Kent Wong, said. ''It avoids paying comparable
wages, paying health benefits and making long-term commitments to these
employees.''

Jesus Lopez, who worked for five years cleaning a Vons in the San Fernando
Valley, said he earned $250 a week even though he typically worked 70 hours,
working out to $3.57 an hour, far less than the $5.15-an-hour federal minimum
wage. Mr. Lopez said he was never paid time and a half when he worked more than
40 hours a week.

''I had only three days off in my whole five years there, and that was because I
was very sick,'' Mr. Lopez, 29, an immigrant from Mexico, said. ''I really
couldn't do anything, because if I told my boss he was paying me too little, he
would just fire me. It's hard to find another job, and I have to support my
mother and younger brothers.''

Like other janitors, Mr. Lopez said he was paid in cash, never had taxes
withheld and was not given health insurance or vacation days. He said the
contractor gave him orders about washing and waxing the floors, but Vons
managers often ordered him to clean storage areas and remove empty cartons.

''I felt very bad about how little they paid me,'' he said. ''One comes to this
country with dreams, and when you see the reality of things, you see it's very
different from what you expected.''

The suit was originally brought by class-action lawyers along with the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the Service Employees
International Union.

''When work gets contracted out and then subcontracted out again, standards for
workers plummet, and that's when we see the illegal activity that led to this
lawsuit,'' said Mike Garcia, president of the largest S.E.I.U. janitors' local
in California.

Under the accord, the janitors will receive $10,000 each on average.

Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, faces a similar suit in which hundreds
of janitors who worked seven nights a week accuse it and its cleaning
contractors of violating overtime laws. The janitors say Wal-Mart should be
considered a joint employer. The company says it did not employ the cleaners.

''This lawsuit in California should strengthen the janitors' case against
Wal-Mart, because it is clarifying the laws on who a joint employer is,'' Lilia
Garcia, executive director of the Maintenance Cooperation Trust Fund, a
monitoring group, said. ''What happens is the supermarkets and the cleaners
don't change from year to year. Only the contractors change. So it's clear who
the real employer is.''

Wal-Mart was embarrassed last year when federal agents raided 60 stores in 21
states and arrested 250 janitors, accusing them of being illegal immigrants.

Unlike the California suit, the Wal-Mart suit involves janitors from countries
other than Mexico, including Brazil, the Czech Republic, Mongolia and Poland.
The Mexican and Czech governments have filed briefs on behalf of the janitors.

In August, the federal Labor Department and the State of California reached a
$1.9 million settlement with a contractor for Target after finding that the
contractor had not paid overtime to hundreds of immigrant janitors who worked
seven nights a week cleaning Target stores.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A janitor in class-action suit, Jesus Lopez, and wife, Edit, and
daughter, Alexus, 3, at court in Los Angeles. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Group Sues State Over Halt to Some Benefits

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1038 words


Since he arrived in Brooklyn as a refugee from Ukraine seven years ago, Boris
Khrapunskiy, a 97-year-old widower, has subsisted on federal and state
disability payments, as elderly or disabled poor people in New York State have
done for the past 60 years. But in June, to his shock, he received a letter from
the government saying his benefits would be cut off until he became a United
States citizen.

The action was the result of a 1996 decision by Congress to eliminate
Supplemental Security Income, or S.S.I., for most immigrants who entered the
country after Aug. 22 of that year, and to set a seven-year time limit for
others -- mainly refugees -- receiving the welfare payment. New York State
echoed those restrictions in a 1998 law denying state aid to anyone ineligible
for federal benefits because of immigration status.

Congress reasoned that seven years was long enough to achieve citizenship. But
time is up for the first wave of refugees and those granted asylum, who number
as many as 48,000 around the country, including 7,000 in New York. Most are
refugees from the former Soviet Union; others fled persecution in Asia, Bosnia,
Cuba or Africa. Hundreds have already lost their benefits.

Today, Mr. Khrapunskiy will be the lead plaintiff in a class-action lawsuit
expected to be filed in State Supreme Court, charging that New York State is
violating the federal and state Constitutions by using alien status to deny
impoverished elderly, blind or disabled residents the lawful standard of need,
which in New York has been set at $651 a month.

The case, brought by a coalition of lawyers for the poor, argues that many
refugees here have been caught short by the deadline because of growing backlogs
in naturalization since the terror attacks of September 2001, and infirmities of
age and illness that prevented them from taking the citizenship test.

Among the 20 plaintiffs who have signed affidavits in the lawsuit, some said
they had been waiting for a citizenship interview for as long as four years, or
that they had to reapply when immigration authorities lost their documents.
Meanwhile, they are reduced to public assistance grants of $352 a month, too
little to even cover their rent. Many are borrowing from hard-pressed relatives
to stave off eviction.

''The state has established a minimum income level that is necessary for people
who are elderly and disabled to live on, but it denies that same level of
assistance to some people just because they're immigrants,'' said Barbara
Weiner, a lawyer with the Greater Upstate Law Project, one of several
legal-service programs for the poor involved in the lawsuit. ''That violates the
state's constitutional duty to take care of poor people without making
distinctions that have nothing to do with their need.''

The lawyers point out that in 2001, New York's highest court struck down a
similar state restriction on nonemergency Medicaid coverage for the immigrant
poor, saying that it violated the federal Constitution's guarantee of equal
protection and the state Constitution's requirement that the state help the
needy. The decision, which also said that the state had usurped the federal
government's exclusive responsibility for regulating immigration, will dictate a
similar finding in this lawsuit, they contend.

Jack Madden, a spokesman for the state Office of Temporary and Disability
Assistance, said that Commissioner Robert Doar, who is named as defendant, would
not comment before seeing the legal papers.

But the plaintiffs' lawyers themselves acknowledge that if they are successful,
the long-term result could be expensive for the state, unless Congress extends
aid to lawful immigrants. The court could require the state, which now adds $87
to the federal monthly share of an S.S.I. grant, to pay more than three times as
much to fill the gap between the $352 basic grant for the able-bodied and the
$651 standard of need set for the elderly, blind or disabled.

In addition to the special categories of immigrants granted seven years of
benefits by Congress, the lawsuit also encompasses the growing number of other
elderly or disabled legal immigrants in the state who were never eligible for
federal S.S.I. at all because they entered the country after welfare reform and
have not yet obtained citizenship.

Some states, including Illinois, recently created temporary special programs to
fill the gap for refugees reaching the time limit, while pushing for Congress to
reconsider the deadline. But bills that would have lengthened the time limit
died this year.

''Of course all the states say this is a federal responsibility,'' said Daniel
Lesser, a senior lawyer with the Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty,
based in Chicago. ''But still, what are we going to do? Who in the world wants
to say that an elderly or disabled person who's fled persecution, in whatever
form, should now be rendered destitute through no fault of their own?''

In New York, those already cut from benefits include Sura Simonova, who is 90
and almost blind, and Yelena Bragilevskaya, 76, who wrote in her affidavit, ''I
am very grateful if the judge can help me get more money so we can pay the rent
and buy more food.''

Another plaintiff, Marianna Popova, 67, said that her husband died of cancer
while waiting for citizenship, and that she waited more than four years for a
green-card interview. Now, six years after she first applied, she has yet to
receive one. In July her S.S.I. was ended, and she is now four months behind on
her rent of $406 a month.

''I do not know how I will survive,'' she wrote in her affidavit, adding that
she was immobilized by two surgeries. ''I cannot afford to cover my most basic
needs. I am worried that I will be evicted and become homeless.''

In Brooklyn, Mr. Khrapunskiy, a former baker who pointed out his favorite World
War II medal -- one for bravery in the battle of Stalingrad -- said that he was
now constantly fearful of eviction from his one-room apartment, and had suffered
a stroke from the stress during the summer.

''I'm not planning to go back there,'' he added of Ukraine, recalling
anti-Semitic attacks that kept him from speaking Yiddish for 70 years. ''The
United States is my country now.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boris Khrapunskiy is to be the principal plaintiff in a
class-action suit charging New York State with violating the federal and state
Constitutions in cutting off immigrants' Supplemental Security Income. (Photo by
Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 Marianna Popova has been waiting six years for a green card. Her supplemental
benefits were cut off and she is four months behind in rent. (Photo by Robert
Stolarik for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 8, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Among the Intelligence Bill's Consequences, Political Stature

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7


He has been described by his colleagues as obstinate, recalcitrant, difficult
and even ornery. When Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin
emerged Tuesday morning from a closed-door session in which he urged fellow
Republicans to oppose an intelligence overhaul bill, another adjective had been
added to that list: defeated.

Mr. Sensenbrenner, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, had lost his
fight for a provision that would deny a driver's license to illegal immigrants.

But on Capitol Hill, where winning and losing is in the eye of the beholder, Mr.
Sensenbrenner's backers said Tuesday that he had emerged victorious because he
extracted a promise from House Republican leaders to put the license issue high
on the agenda when Congress returns in January.

''People always thought he was a little ornery and difficult to get along with,
but on this issue he has been incredibly effective,'' said Representative Zach
Wamp, Republican of Tennessee, who said he intended to oppose the intelligence
bill because it did not contain the language Mr. Sensenbrenner wanted. ''I think
his stock just soared in our conference.''

Mr. Sensenbrenner is just one of several influential lawmakers whose reputations
are bound to be shaped by the expected final passage of the intelligence
overhaul this week.

They include Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, who was criticized by
Democrats for not bringing the bill to the floor 17 days ago; Representative
Duncan Hunter, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee, who abandoned his objections to the bill after last-minute
revisions; and the bill's chief authors in the Senate, Susan Collins, Republican
of Maine, and Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut.

Mr. Lieberman, who has kept a fairly low profile since his unsuccessful run for
vice president in 2000, has re-emerged in the spotlight -- to his benefit,
Democrats and Republicans said. But Ms. Collins might turn out to be the biggest
winner, after a roller-coaster ride in which the bill seemed destined to pass,
then doomed, then back on track.

At a news conference Tuesday -- which was Ms. Collins's 52nd birthday -- one
lawmaker after another offered enthusiastic praise.

''I've been in Congress for 20 years,'' Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, the West
Virginia Democrat who is his party's senior member on the Senate Intelligence
Committee, ''and I've never seen any person exercise the leadership, the
restraint, the good humor, the toughness to stand up against whoever she had to
stand up against than Susan Collins.''

Senator Norm Coleman, Republican of Minnesota, said: ''There were a lot of folks
who doubted whether this moment would come. I actually told Susan I never
doubted it, because I know Susan Collins.''

The debate over the bill exposed serious fissures between the House and the
Senate, and those differences were apparent Tuesday.

''I'd say the losers are the Senate,'' said Representative Candice S. Miller, a
Michigan Republican on the Armed Services Committee. She also declared Mr.
Hastert a winner, saying, ''You saw a Republican House that was willing to stand
up and take the heat and do the right thing.''

Among those who stood up most publicly was Mr. Hunter, whose objections led to
the compromise measure that the House approved overwhelming on Tuesday night.
Backers of the original bill suggested that the revisions were minor and that
the revisions were simply an effort by Mr. Hunter to exit the controversy
gracefully.

''Oh, absolutely,'' Representative Peter Hoekstra, Republican of Michigan and a
chief House author of the bill, said wryly when asked if there was meaningful
change. ''Before, Duncan Hunter opposed the bill, and now he supports it. It is
about as meaningful a change as I could get.''

Other Republicans said Mr. Hunter's standing had been enhanced.

''He went from being somewhat unknown to being somewhat of a national figure,
and certainly in the eyes of the Republican conference, his stature grew
exponentially,'' said Stuart Roy, a spokesman for Representative Tom DeLay of
Texas, the majority leader. ''He stood up not just to the Senate, but also to
the president.''

Mr. Hunter was asked Tuesday if he felt like a winner. ''Yes, I think very
clearly,'' he replied. ''But I don't think I won. I think the troops won.''

For his part, Mr. Sensenbrenner was at times taciturn on Tuesday, at times
defiant.

''I will not rest until these provisions are enacted into law,'' he said in a
speech on the House floor.

But he had few words for the reporters who waited for him outside the
closed-door session.

''I don't do hallway interviews,'' he said, brushing the throng aside with a
smile that seemed to mask a scowl. ''Merry Christmas to you all.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a  key player in intelligence bill
debate. (Photo by Evan Vucci/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 8, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Children of Hispanic Immigrants Continue to Favor English, Study of Census Finds

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4


English remains the language of choice among the children and grandchildren of
Hispanic immigrants, despite continuing waves of migration from Latin America
and concerns from some analysts that English may lose ground to Spanish in some
parts of the United States, a new analysis of census data shows.

The study, conducted by researchers at the State University of New York at
Albany, is the latest foray in a fierce debate about whether the stream of
immigration from Latin America will challenge traditional assimilation patterns
charted by the descendants of European migrants.

Scholars say that the descendants of most European immigrants who arrived in the
late 19th and 20th centuries became exclusively English-speakers within three
generations. In recent years, some people have questioned whether the
descendants of Hispanic immigrants will follow suit, given the surge in
Spanish-speaking arrivals and the emphasis on multiculturalism and increased
globalization.

The study, which examined data from the 2000 census, found that most
Hispanic-Americans were also marching steadily toward English monolingualism.
The report found that 72 percent of Hispanic children who were third-generation
or later spoke English exclusively.

The report suggested that the trend had generally continued among
Mexican-Americans, the country's largest immigrant group, even during the
immigration boom of the 1990's. In 1990, 64 percent of third- and
later-generation Mexican-American children spoke only English at home, the study
showed. By 2000, that figure had risen to 71 percent.

Richard Alba, director of the Lewis Mumford Center for Comparative Urban and
Regional Research at SUNY-Albany, says the study suggests that many people have
underestimated the pressures of assimilation, which continue to drive immigrants
and their descendants toward English as they seek success in the American
mainstream.

Even for Hispanics in Los Angeles, a magnet for immigration from Latin America,
the pattern of language shifts across generations remained similar to those
among Hispanics nationally, he said.

''A number of people, whether from the left or the right, are underplaying the
contemporary signs of assimilation,'' Mr. Alba said. ''They are viewing American
society as much more fractured along ethnic and cultural lines than really
appears to be the case. There are fault lines, but they are not as deep as
people think.''

Mr. Alba reported some notable exceptions to the trend, finding that larger
percentages of Hispanics maintained bilingualism in the third generation than
did their earlier European counterparts. Such bilingualism mainly occurs in
communities along the Mexican border, where Spanish has been widely spoken for
generations, and among Dominican immigrants who maintain close ties to their
home country, the study found.

Samuel P. Huntington, a professor of political science at Harvard who touched
off a furor this year by warning that continuing high levels of Hispanic
immigration might ''eventually change America into a country of two languages,
two cultures and two peoples,'' said he agreed with Mr. Alba's findings.

But he said that Mr. Alba's study reflected the experiences of the descendants
of Hispanic immigrants who arrived in the 1960's, when the large waves of Latin
American migration to the United States were just beginning. He said the study
did little to predict the experiences of the grandchildren of more recent
Hispanic arrivals.

In 2003, about 33 million foreign-born people lived in the United States,
accounting for nearly 12 percent of the population, census statistics show.
Fifty-three percent of those immigrants were born in Latin America and half had
arrived since 1990.

''We had this huge increase of immigration in the 1980's and 1990's. What will
the grandchildren of these immigrants be like?'' Mr. Huntington said. ''How will
they balance their conflicting identities as Hispanics, Mexicans and Americans?
It's going to be a very different situation. You can't simply assume that this
third generation that will emerge in a couple of decades is like the third
generation that exists now.''

''If current trends continue,'' Mr. Huntington said, ''we will move in the
direction of becoming a bilingual society. Is that going to be a disaster? Not
necessarily. But it will make us a different country than we have been in the
past.''

Mr. Alba said available statistics did not suggest a substantive change in
historical patterns. His view was echoed by Ruben G. Rumbaut, co-director of the
Center for Research on Immigration, Population and Public Policy at the
University of California, Irvine.

Dr. Rumbaut, who was a co-director of the largest multiyear survey of the
children of immigrants, said his findings showed that continued bilingualism
among Hispanics did not occur at the expense of English.

''It's additive, not subtractive,'' Dr. Rumbaut said. ''English is still
overwhelmingly preferred, even by Mexican-born young people who came as young
children and are living on the border.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 9, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deported Mother Is Granted Permission to Return

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 400 words


As an American child left behind with her father in the Bronx when her mother
was abruptly deported to Honduras in April 2003, 8-year-old Virginia Feliz
sometimes said she hated her last name, which means happy in Spanish.

But yesterday a happy name fit everyone in the family again. ''My mother's
coming home Friday!'' Virginia said exultantly after her father told her the
good news: Federal officials have granted Virginia's mother, Berly, a waiver and
an immigration visa, clearing the way for her return to the United States.

A front-page article in The New York Times on Nov. 24 detailed the impact of the
19-month separation on Virginia, her mother and her father, Carlos. Mr. Feliz is
an American citizen born in the Dominican Republic who was disabled in a
workplace accident four years ago and has been struggling, without his wife's
help, to support his daughter, who became severely depressed.

Mrs. Feliz has acknowledged that she entered the United States illegally in
1994. Caught just over the border, she was released on bond, fled to New York
and was ordered deported in absentia when she failed to show up in a Texas
immigration court.

Such orders were not pursued at the time, however, and after she married Mr.
Feliz in 1996, she applied for a green card and was granted several work
permits.

It was when she sought to renew her work authorization that the decade-old
deportation order resurfaced, and under the government's newly rigorous
enforcement of the law, she found herself in handcuffs on a plane to Honduras
without time to say goodbye.

Jeffrey Feinbloom, an immigration lawyer who worked for Mrs. Feliz's return,
said only weeks ago that officials at the Department of Homeland Security had
told him that even processing her request for a waiver would take another seven
or eight months. But after the article drew attention to the case, he said,
government officials moved swiftly.

Mr. Feinbloom noted, however, that thousands of families without such publicity
are in similar situations, without recourse to legal help.

In a call from Honduras, Mrs. Feliz said her gratitude knew no bounds. Asked
about her plans, she replied in Spanish, ''To give lots of love to Virginia and
my husband and try to make a better life for the three of us.''

''I'm very, very happy,'' she added. ''Feliz mas que nunca'' -- happier than
ever before.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prosecutors Join Effort To Release Immigrant

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 833 words


Nearly two months after a state court overturned the murder conviction of David
Wong, an illegal Chinese immigrant accused of stabbing a fellow inmate in an
upstate prison in 1986, prosecutors in Plattsburgh, N.Y., announced yesterday
that they had filed a motion to dismiss the charges.

If the motion is approved, as expected, by Judge Richard C. Giardino of Fulton
County, it will mark the legal end of a case that has attracted the attention of
Asian-Americans around the country. But any celebration for Mr. Wong might be
short-lived and bittersweet, since he is expected to be deported to China,
meaning that his first taste of freedom in two decades would be not in the
United States, but in Hong Kong or China.

Mr. Wong, now 42, was serving time for armed robbery when he was charged with
fatally stabbing Tyrone Julius at the Clinton Correctional Facility in
Dannemora, about 17 miles west of Plattsburgh. And though there was no physical
evidence or obvious motive, Mr. Wong was found guilty based on the testimony of
two witnesses and was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison.

Years later, Mr. Wong's case garnered the support of Asian-American advocates in
New York City, who viewed his story as emblematic of a criminal justice system
stacked against poor immigrants who barely speak English.

Subsequent articles in The New York Times and inquiries made by a Manhattan
private investigator, combined with the reversal of testimony by one prosecution
witness, also suggested that another inmate had killed Mr. Julius.

In the legal arena, though, Mr. Wong suffered setback after setback, none worse
than a decision by Judge Timothy J. Lawliss of Clinton County Court in October
2003 that concluded there was not enough fresh evidence to merit a new trial,
said one of Mr. Wong's lawyers, William E. Hellerstein, a professor at Brooklyn
Law School.

But on Oct. 21, with Mr. Wong's legal options running out, a state appellate
court unanimously overturned the conviction and returned the case to Clinton
County Court, citing the reversal of testimony by a key witness, the lack of
physical evidence and the insistence from former inmates and Mr. Julius's widow
that Mr. Wong was innocent.

As a result, District Attorney Richard E. Cantwell of Clinton County, who did
not handle the original trial, filed a 17-page motion yesterday to dismiss the
charges.

In an interview, Mr. Cantwell -- who is the third district attorney to handle
the case -- said that he still felt Mr. Wong's original trial had been fair. He
also said that the remaining prosecution witness, a correction officer named
Richard LaPierre, stood by his original testimony that he saw the stabbing from
an 80-foot tower 120 yards away.

But Mr. Cantwell also said that there was a ''ton of problems,'' especially the
recantation of testimony by Peter DellFava, a former inmate and the
disappearance of several items that had been gathered after Mr. Julius was
attacked.

''It's done, it's over and that's the right thing to do,'' he said. ''I think a
jury will have a difficult time finding beyond a reasonable doubt that David
Wong committed the murder.''

Mr. Cantwell also noted that the Department of Justice had issued an order to
deport Mr. Wong in 1994, meaning that he is scheduled to go from state prison to
federal custody, whether he is freed or convicted again.

''Look, he has been incarcerated since 1983, and all he's doing is he's waiting
to be deported,'' Mr. Cantwell said. ''So what are we going to do? Keep him here
forever?''

Mr. Wong's supporters, meanwhile, said that they were ecstatic and relieved that
a case that they believed was a strong one from the outset had finally gone
their way. But they acknowledged that they had sometimes worried that Mr. Wong
would not prevail.

''It's gratifying,'' said Jaykumar A. Menon, one of Mr. Wong's lawyers, who
works for the Center for Constitutional Rights in Manhattan. ''This is Sisyphus
triumphant.''

The odyssey for Mr. Wong, a former Chinatown busboy who was serving 81/3 to 25
years for his part in the robbery of his boss's home on Long Island, began on a
snowy afternoon in March 1986, when someone plunged a shank into Mr. Julius's
neck. Of the 70 to 100 inmates in the area, only Mr. Wong and an inmate from
Hong Kong, Tse Kin Cheung, were searched. Investigators found neither blood nor
a weapon on either man.

After Mr. Cheung began writing to Asian-American community leaders, claiming
that Mr. Wong had been framed, a group of New York City activists formed the
David Wong Support Committee. And eventually, former inmates and others came
forward to say that Mr. Julius was, in fact, murdered by a rival, Nelson
Gutierrez, who died in 2000.

Yesterday, at a news conference in Chinatown, many of those activists thanked
the people who had, in the words of one supporter, Patti Choy, ''contributed to
the fight'' for more than a decade. But their fight was far from over, they
added, because now, there is the matter of Mr. Wong's deportation.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: L.Kwong Eng of the Organization of Chinese Americans, left,
Evergreen Chou of the David Wong Support Committee, and Mr. Wong's niece, Fei
Yeung, announced yesterday that Mr. Wong would be freed.. (Photo by Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2004 Saturday
                          Clarifying Article Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

KERIK WITHDRAWS AS BUSH'S NOMINEE FOR SECURITY POST

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Eric Lipton reported from
Washington for this article and William K. Rashbaum from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10


Bernard B. Kerik, the former New York City police commissioner, abruptly
withdrew his name from consideration to be President Bush's secretary of
homeland security late Friday night, citing questions related to the immigration
status of a former household employee.

Mr. Kerik's swift fall -- he was nominated only a week ago by President Bush to
succeed Tom Ridge -- came in a letter in which he called the offer ''the honor
of a lifetime'' but said that ''moving forward would not be in the best interest
of your administration, the Department of Homeland Security or the American
people.''

In reviewing his personal finances this week as he prepared for confirmation
hearings, Mr. Kerik said in a statement issued late Friday, he determined that a
housekeeper and nanny he had once employed was not clearly a legal immigrant and
that he had not properly paid taxes on her behalf.

''I uncovered information that now leads me to question the immigration status
of a person who had been in my employ as a housekeeper and nanny,'' Mr. Kerik
said. ''It has also been brought to my attention that for a period of time
during such employment required tax payments and related filings had not been
made.''

His lawyer, Joseph Tacopina, said that Mr. Kerik called the president at 8:30
p.m. to inform him of the decision. The White House had not pressured him to
withdraw, Mr. Tacopina said, but he decided he had to do so because as homeland
security secretary, he would be in charge of supervising the nation's
immigration laws.

Within two days after the issue surfaced, it became apparent to all involved
that Mr. Kerik had no choice but to withdraw his name, said former Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani, who had urged Mr. Bush to nominate Mr. Kerik. The hiring of an
illegal immigrant or failure to pay taxes had forced the withdrawal of other
cabinet nominees, including Kimba M. Wood, Zoe Baird and Linda Chavez.

''When an issue like this emerges, it makes it impossible to go forward,'' Mr.
Giuliani said on Friday night.

A former New York City official who knows the circumstances of the withdrawal
said that the housekeeper, who had worked for the Kerik family for about a year,
left for her home country two weeks ago. Her name and nationality were not
disclosed. Mr. Kerik lives in Franklin Lakes, N.J., with his wife, Hala, and
their two small children. Mr. Kerik has two older children, one from a previous
marriage and one whom he fathered while serving in the military in Korea.

From the moment Mr. Kerik's nomination was announced by President Bush, news
organizations have been digging into Mr. Kerik's background, from his time as a
security chief at a hospital in Saudi Arabia in the early 1980's to his work
during the last three years in the private sector for companies doing business
with the Department of Homeland Security. The stream of stories -- which raised
questions about how he used his position of authority or whether his work in the
private sector might present a conflict of interest when he returned to the
government -- had begun to produce questions about the status of his nomination.

Democrats on Capitol Hill, where the Senate was preparing to take up his
nomination, had also begun to investigate reports of his conduct as a New York
City official, and several said privately that they were beginning to have
doubts about Mr. Kerik's fitness for the job.

In just the last three years, Mr. Kerik, 49, made millions of dollars, mainly
through his partnership in a security consulting firm headed by Mr. Giuliani and
by serving on the board of a stun-gun manufacturer that has been seeking to do
business with Homeland Security. Most recently, Mr. Kerik sold $5.8 million of
stock in the stun-gun company.

But as recently as Friday afternoon, White House officials were standing behind
Mr. Kerik, saying that his nomination was on track.

''We've looked into all these issues,'' the White House press secretary, Scott
McClellan, said on Friday afternoon. ''And obviously he'll be talking about some
of these matters during his confirmation hearing. But the president appointed
Commissioner Kerik because he knows he is someone who is firmly committed to
helping us win the war on terrorism and make sure that we are doing everything
we can to protect the homeland.''

And Senate staff aides had predicted that he would be able to overcome any
conflict-of-interest obstacles to his confirmation and be confirmed to the job,
which entails buying $7 billion of homeland security goods and security services
annually.

Mr. Tacopina said the decision to step down was not made because of any outside
information gathered by news organizations or federal background checks, but
rather by Mr. Kerik himself as he filled out application papers, after he
discovered information that he thought would cause a problem in his
confirmation.

''He wanted to put the country first,'' Mr. Tacopina said. ''He didn't want to
distract the president and distract the important mission that Homeland Security
has.''

Mr. McClellan said the White House would ''move as quickly as we can to name
someone else to fill this nomination.''

Mr. Giuliani expressed particular disappointment on Friday night at the turn of
events, as he had promoted Mr. Kerik from a position as deputy commissioner at
the Department of Correction in the late 1990's ultimately to the top job at the
New York Police Department. After the attack on Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Kerik, like
Mr. Giuliani, gained a much greater national profile, with talk of Mr. Kerik
even running for elective office in New Jersey before he was nominated by Mr.
Bush to the Homeland Security post.

''He made a mistake,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''I believe he would have been
confirmed if it weren't for this.''

The cabinet nomination had appeared to be the capstone on an unusual career for
a high school dropout, following his rapid rise from a third-grade detective,
who joined the Police Department in 1986 after serving as the warden of the
Passaic County jail. He served as Mr. Giuliani's chauffeur and bodyguard during
the 1993 mayoral campaign, and when Mr. Giuliani took office, he named Mr. Kerik
director of investigations of the Correction Department in 1994. He became first
deputy commissioner there in 1995.

Mr. Giuliani named him correction commissioner in late 1997, and Mr. Kerik won
praise heading the city's jail system by reducing violence. Mr. Giuliani chose
him as his third police commissioner in 1999.

Mr. Kerik, who took over the Police Department without a college degree, had
credibility with street cops and a rough-hewn charm he used to ingratiate
himself with many New Yorkers. But critics contend he was prone to lapses of
judgment, pointing to the use of an elite homicide task force to question
several people who his book publisher, Judith Regan, believed had stolen her
cellphone, and the use of other detectives to research his book, an action for
which he was fined by the city's Conflict of Interest Board.

Clarifying Article: December 21, 2004, Tuesday


LetterA Legal EmploymentTo the Editor:

 Re your Dec. 12 correction to the Dec. 11 reference to my employment of my
son's nanny:

My employment of my son's nanny, Jane Lucas, was at all times in the past, and
still is, perfectly legal, on my part and on hers.


In 1993, The New York Times printed my statement containing the details of how I
complied with all laws and regulations in employing Ms. Lucas. The statement is
supported by my voluminous files, which date back to 1986, when I hired Ms.
Lucas. I have copies of the many filings she and I made when I hired her, and
the many more filings we have made since then.

When I hired Ms. Lucas, I made the required filings with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security
Administration and the New York State Department of Labor. During the entire
time I have employed Ms. Lucas, I have promptly paid all taxes due, and Ms.
Lucas has paid all income taxes due.

I have also complied fully with New York State law: I have made all required
filings with the New York State Department of Labor, and I have paid all the
required New York State workers' compensation contributions and disability
insurance premiums.

Ms. Lucas is now our housekeeper. She became a United States citizen several
years ago.

Kimba M. Wood
United States District Judge
New York, Dec. 17, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2004 Sunday
                          Clarifying Article Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 312 words


An article yesterday about Bernard B. Kerik's decision to withdraw his name from
consideration to be secretary of homeland security, over issues including the
immigration and tax status of a housekeeper he formerly employed, referred
incorrectly to the 1993 precedent of Judge Kimba M. Wood's withdrawal from
consideration for attorney general. Judge Wood had hired an illegal immigrant
before such employment became illegal, not after, and she paid the required
taxes.


Clarifying Article: December 21, 2004, Tuesday

LetterA Legal EmploymentTo the Editor:

 Re your Dec. 12 correction to the Dec. 11 reference to my employment of my
son's nanny:

My employment of my son's nanny, Jane Lucas, was at all times in the past, and
still is, perfectly legal, on my part and on hers.


In 1993, The New York Times printed my statement containing the details of how I
complied with all laws and regulations in employing Ms. Lucas. The statement is
supported by my voluminous files, which date back to 1986, when I hired Ms.
Lucas. I have copies of the many filings she and I made when I hired her, and
the many more filings we have made since then.

When I hired Ms. Lucas, I made the required filings with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security
Administration and the New York State Department of Labor. During the entire
time I have employed Ms. Lucas, I have promptly paid all taxes due, and Ms.
Lucas has paid all income taxes due.

I have also complied fully with New York State law: I have made all required
filings with the New York State Department of Labor, and I have paid all the
required New York State workers' compensation contributions and disability
insurance premiums.

Ms. Lucas is now our housekeeper. She became a United States citizen several
years ago.

Kimba M. Wood
United States District Judge
New York, Dec. 17, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gateway to Success

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 473 words


The ambition that propels immigrants into this country often finds itself
hampered by formidable obstacles -- language, low pay, lack of education,
limited opportunity and, not infrequently, local hostility. Immigrants being who
they are, these hurdles are seldom insurmountable. Theirs is the energy of hope,
and it's a powerful force.

Westchester Community College in Valhalla has begun a determined effort to tap
that energy -- and to help pave the path to success for immigrants -- in a way
that could set an example for the region. It has begun its largest-ever
fund-raising effort to build the Gateway Center, a $35 million building that
will consolidate the classes and services it offers to the foreign-born, who
make up a large portion of its student body of 24,000.

The center will allow the school to expand its English as a Second Language
program, which now serves 4,000 students. It will also offer job training,
placement services and career guidance, and is envisioned as a social hub where
the native-born and newcomers can meet, work together and learn from one
another.

It's a practical idea, and an inspiring one. The New York area, like much of the
rest of the country, is absorbing a huge wave of immigrants. The process has not
always gone smoothly, particularly -- and predictably -- in the mostly white
suburbs. A case in point is Long Island, where immigrants confront increasing
hostility. Long Island's immigrant ranks include a considerable cohort of
middle- and upper-class professionals. Those on the lowest rung of the economic
ladder are more visible: the day laborers in construction and the men who mow
lawns and clip hedges, waiting for work on the Island's shady streets and in its
convenience-store parking lots. Besides the vagaries of weather and unscrupulous
bosses, they endure insults -- and occasional violence -- from other Long
Islanders who have let their suspicion of outsiders sink into hatred.

Some local political leaders have taken steps to defuse the tensions, like
setting up hiring centers to get laborers off the streets. Others have ignored
the problem, or stoked it by pandering to the xenophobia of anti-immigrant
groups whose members compare Latino workers to terrorists and who would just as
soon erase the Latinos' presence altogether.

The Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, caused an uproar with a plan to
deputize some county police officers to enforce federal immigration laws. He has
wisely retreated. But he needs to go much further to restore trust among his
Latino constituents, and to reinforce the obvious truth that hard-working,
community-building immigrants are a welcome presence in our region.

He can begin doing this by echoing the tone of pragmatism and tolerance -- and
hope -- that is being shown by a community college in Westchester.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 12, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

KERIK'S POSITION WAS UNTENABLE, BUSH AIDE SAYS

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2022 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11


President Bush readily accepted Bernard B. Kerik's decision to withdraw his
nomination as homeland security secretary after the White House quickly
concluded on Friday evening that it would be impossible for him to win
confirmation for a post that supervises enforcement of the nation's immigration
laws if he had had immigration problems in his own household, White House
officials said on Saturday.

Only hours earlier on Friday, Mr. Kerik informed the administration that,
contrary to assurances he had given the White House counsel's office before the
president nominated him on Dec. 3, a nanny he had employed appeared to have been
in the country illegally and that he had failed to pay taxes on her behalf. He
told President Bush in a brief phone call about 8:30 p.m. Friday of his decision
to withdraw, said a White House official.

White House officials were clearly annoyed at Mr. Kerik for not determining the
nanny's immigration status before this week but said they had no evidence he had
sought to mislead them. ''It was Kerik's screw-up, it was that simple,'' the
official said. ''But it's a mistake you can't tolerate with someone who has
oversight for immigration.''

The nanny Mr. Kerik had employed, who has not yet been identified, left the
country about two weeks ago, just prior to the announcement of his nomination, a
former New York City official said on Saturday, adding that her departure had
been planned for at least two months.

At a news conference Saturday, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor and now a
business associate of Mr. Kerik's, called the discovery ''an embarrassment to me
and to Bernie and to those of us that supported him because we should have
disclosed this, we should have found out earlier.''

But Mr. Giuliani said he thought that the issue of the status of any domestic
help was ''the second or third question'' that White House officials asked Mr.
Kerik in the preliminary vetting they do of all potential nominees, ''and he
said he didn't believe he had a problem here.''

Mr. Kerik said on Saturday that he believed he could have made it through the
confirmation process, but decided that the process would be a burden to the
administration.

''It would have been messy, ugly and an embarrassment to President Bush, so I
withdrew my name,'' he said.

Mr. Kerik's withdrawal was the first major blunder in the administration's
process of assembling its second-term cabinet, but not a new experience for Mr.
Bush's team. Four years ago, when Mr. Bush nominated Linda Chavez as labor
secretary, it was discovered after the initial vetting process that she had
given shelter to, and employed, an illegal immigrant. At the time, Mr. Bush's
aides were outraged and promised to change their methods for reviewing potential
nominees, but on Saturday several officials said that because Mr. Bush wanted to
make his decisions speedily, their initial review had been quick.

Mr. Kerik's housekeeper situation was only the latest question to be revealed
about the nominee. A series of critical news reports about questionable actions
had begun to surface about Mr. Kerik, threatening to turn his Senate
confirmation into a lengthy embarrassment for the administration. The reports
looked at Mr. Kerik's use of city personnel while in office, potential conflicts
between his business life and the role of the Homeland Security Department, and
events growing out of his personal financial difficulties several years ago.

One Democratic Senate staff member, who has been following the nomination
process closely and asked not to be identified because of the political
sensitivity of the matter, said he was convinced that the nanny question was not
the sole reason that Mr. Kerik had dropped out. ''Multiple media organizations
were pursuing multiple stories'' that would be potentially damaging to Mr.
Kerik, he said. Because many of these questions had not yet been answered by the
administration, the staff member said, ''fundamentally, he was a bad pick.''

The staff member added: ''The process worked here.''

Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican and the chairwoman of the Government
Affairs Committee, said that among the possible candidates to succeed Mr. Kerik,
at least in her mind, would be Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of
Connecticut, or Asa Hutchinson, the assistant secretary at Homeland Security.
Other names mentioned on Saturday included Frances Fragos Townsend, the domestic
security adviser; Joe Allbaugh, the former director of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, who now runs his own Washington-based consulting firm; and
Michael O. Leavitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Those options had apparently also been considered before Mr. Kerik was
nominated.

''I am confident that President Bush will move swiftly to find a replacement for
Bernie Kerik,'' Senator Collins said in a statement on Saturday.

On Saturday morning, Mr. Kerik emerged from his two-story yellow house in
Franklin Lakes, N.J., and spoke to reporters in his driveway, flanked by two
security guards.

''I think when you're in a position like this, the press, the media and all your
enemies try to find things that a person has done wrong,'' he said. ''But I
don't think that there would have been a problem with the nomination.''

He refused to disclose the name or nationality of the nanny, and would not say
how long she had worked for him or provide any other details about her.

''Out of respect for her privacy, I'm not going to go into details except to say
that she is a good woman,'' Mr. Kerik said.

A former city official who asked not to be identified said Mr. Kerik had
acknowledged that he had said ''no'' when the White House originally asked if he
had a nanny problem. According to the former official, Mr. Kerik now says that
he did not pay enough attention to the details of the nanny's hiring and that he
did not realize until the last few days that she had been in the country
illegally.

Mr. Giuliani, who had spoken on Mr. Kerik's behalf to the White House, said he
felt partly responsible for what had happened.

''I wish for everybody's sake, including mine, that this had been focused on
earlier,'' said Mr. Giuliani, who brought Mr. Kerik to prominence as his
commissioner of both correction and police. ''Then you would never have gotten
to this position. I take my share of responsibility for that.''

Mr. Giuliani said he never gave the White House any broad assurances that Mr.
Kerik's background was entirely clean, saying that the president's staff was
going through its normal process of evaluating a cabinet nominee.

''I never had a conversation in which I vouched for him or was asked about this
issue or any other issue,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''Obviously, everyone would have
preferred if this was discovered earlier.''

Both Mr. Giuliani and the White House official said the administration had
reviewed any potential nanny problems as part of a full vetting process of Mr.
Kerik before the confirmation hearings.

''We went through a full vetting process that includes everything that could be
of issue,'' the official said. ''I believe it was only when he started going
through the specific compliance process that the problem became a little more
acute and that's when he brought it to us.''

Asked if the White House believed it had been misled by Mr. Kerik, the official
said, ''I wouldn't characterize it in that way.''

The official bristled when asked whether the White House regretted listening to
Mr. Giuliani.

''There's a misperception out there,'' the official said. ''Giuliani was
obviously a strong supporter of Bernie Kerik, but we don't make decisions based
on recommendations or the faith of other people's word. We do our own
independent vetting and selection process.''

Many people, the official added, had made recommendations on behalf of Mr.
Kerik. ''But the president had his own independent relationship with Kerik that
had formed over the last several years and he made his own decision,'' the
official said.

Mr. Giuliani said the White House had not expressed any anger to him or to Mr.
Kerik.

Mr. Kerik, who said he had first uncovered the problem as he and his lawyers
went through the paperwork required for Senate confirmation of his job on
Friday, had been in contact earlier in the day with the White House counsel's
office. He later called Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, and
the phone call with Mr. Bush was arranged.

''We are disappointed because President Bush believes he was the right person
for the challenges our country faces,'' the White House official said. ''He also
respects his decision. Unfortunately, these things happen during a confirmation
process.''

The withdrawal of Mr. Kerik was a disappointment not only for the former police
commissioner and the former mayor, but also for elected officials from New York
who thought Mr. Kerik would be attuned to the needs of the city.

''I am disappointed that Bernie Kerik will not be homeland security secretary,''
said Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from New York. ''Few have better
understood the needs of New York and of our nation when it comes to doing more
to keep us safe from terrorism here at home. I hope the president will nominate
someone who exhibits Bernie's deep commitment to keeping New York -- and America
-- safer from terrorism.''

In the three years since Mr. Kerik left city government, he has made millions of
dollars in the private sector, much of it working for companies that do business
with the Department of Homeland Security and that are seeking to expand their
sales. His single biggest source of income was Taser International, an
Arizona-based manufacturer of stun guns that added Mr. Kerik to its board and
gave him stock options that Mr. Kerik has since sold, earning $6.2 million in
pretax profits.

Most of Taser's sales come from local and state police departments, but it has
also been trying to sell its shock guns to Customs and Border Protection, a
division of the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Kerik also has served on
the board of CamelBak, a company based in Petaluma, Calif., that sells water
supply backpacks to the United States military and law enforcement branches,
including the border patrol.

Mr. Giuliani said he was convinced that these and other business ties to
security companies were not a factor in Mr. Kerik's decision to back out. Mr.
Giuliani said that the effort to collect a past-due debt on a condominium he
owned in East Rutherford, N.J. -- including, apparently, an arrest warrant that
was issued for Mr. Kerik in 1998, based on the outstanding condominium fees --
also did not play a role.

''That was a civil proceeding that was resolved. That fits into the category of
something that you can easily explain,'' he said. The arrest warrant was first
reported by Newsweek.

''Whenever this happens, there is always the idea that it must be something
else, it must be something else,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''But that is when there
is not a good reason. This is a good reason. Who would actually think he could
go forward with this issue?''

He added that Mr. Kerik, who spent about half an hour on Saturday outside his
house putting up Christmas decorations, including miniature Santas and wire
reindeer of white lights, would do ''great things'' in the future.

''This is a sad day for him and his family,'' he said. ''But we all have complex
lives. Sometimes it trips you up.''

White House officials said that in their initial review of nominees, they run
down a list of questions involving potentially embarrassing problems: legal
difficulties, the status of household workers, past divorces or relationships
and tax problems, among other issues. ''We try to go through public records,''
said one senior official. ''But without guidance from the nominee, there is only
so much you can do.''

Mr. Kerik's nomination had not even been formally presented to the Senate, which
had not planned to hold hearings on Mr. Kerik until late January or perhaps
early February. So the formal vetting process, particularly for the Senate, had
only just begun.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard B. Kerik spoke to reporters yesterday outside his home
in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He said he thought he would have made it through the
confirmation process but it would have burdened the administration. His
withdrawal was also a disappointment for elected officials from New York. (Photo
by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 48)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 13, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Case Riles Colorado Town

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1243 words

DATELINE: RIDGWAY, Colo., Dec. 8


The Sargsyan family came from Armenia in the 1990's already primed with many of
the attributes that small-town rural America respects. They worked hard, paid
their bills on time, learned English rapidly, excelled in school and were
good-looking as well, people here say.

In this mostly white ranching and retirement town of about 700 people near the
Telluride ski resort, the Sargsyans also brought a tincture of foreign exoticism
that many residents found bracing.

''These are the kind of people you want as immigrants, the kind that made this
country great,'' said Dr. Richard Engdahl, pastor of the United Church of the
San Juans, which meets in the local community center.

But what happened next says as much about the town as it does about the family.
After the Sargsyans were threatened with deportation earlier this year -- they
had entered the country on student visas and gotten jobs instead, the government
said -- a kind of collective howl went up here over what was perceived as a
terrible injustice.

The anger filtered through the tiny Ridgway School, where Hayk Sargsyan
(pronounced sarg-SEE-yan) is a senior in the 17-member class of 2005. And it
erupted from Dr. Engdahl's church, where Hayk's sister, Meri, is a pianist.

The Sargsyans were in trouble -- Hayk, Meri and two other family members were
placed in detention in early November -- and many people said that was all they
needed to know. Dr. Engdahl offered at least half a dozen sermons on the
subject.

Heidi Comstock, an assistant office manager at a medical clinic up the road from
Ridgway's one traffic light, said, ''This was an opportunity to make a
difference at a time when there's a feeling of helplessness on a lot of other
levels about the world.''

A fund-raiser with Armenian food and a silent auction raised $15,000 for legal
bills. Students began a letter-writing campaign to anyone who might be able to
help, from the county commission to the Department of Homeland Security, which
oversees the Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau.

A seven-hour bus trip was organized to visit the four family members who were
being held at the immigration detention center near Denver, and about a third of
the town's 150 middle and high school students went. The student body president,
Rachel Overton, 17, said the experience taught her how to properly organize a
protest rally.

[On Thursday, the family members in detention were released; they are still
awaiting the outcome of their case. A spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement said officials had decided that the Sargsyans presented neither a
risk of flight nor a threat to national security. On Saturday, the town held a
welcome-home reception at a park.]

But the effort to save one family has also exposed the town, people here say, to
some thorny questions and consequences. The family patriarch, Ruben Sargsyan,
62, who had been a scientist in Armenia working on optics for the Soviet space
program, lost his job frying doughnuts on the night shift at a local bakery
after the furor erupted, residents say.

And the uncertainty about the family's permanent status has led some people to
say they fear a loss of innocence as a small town accustomed to participatory
democracy bumps up against a vast and faceless bureaucracy. If a local official
in Ridgway makes a boneheaded decision, a resident can step up and say so the
next time they bump into each other at the True Grit Cafe, which is the closest
thing to a town nerve center. The Department of Homeland Security, with its tens
of thousands of employees of somber mandate to protect the nation, does not lend
itself to hands-on folksiness.

''People here still have this faith and belief that if we write the right letter
and reach the right politician, we can make a difference,'' said Susan Lacy, the
secondary school principal at Ridgway School. ''I worry about the students
becoming cynical too soon,'' she added.

Students like Rachel Plavidal, a 17-year-old classmate of Hayk, say the
government is simply wrong in prosecuting the Sargsyans.

''It's definitely giving me a negative impression of the government, that they
could do this,'' she said. ''It just seems like the laws are being
compromised.''

Other people say the effort illuminates how little attention is paid to other
immigrants in the community, especially those from Mexico. And most people admit
that the support probably would not be so universal if the family were Muslim.
The Sargsyans are loved, many people say, because they fit in so well, and they
fit in because they personified the shared values and ideals of the town.

''These people stood up and took part in this community, and let's face it, they
have more in common, culturally, with this community than a lot of the
Hispanics,'' said Rodney Fitzhugh, a lawyer who practices in Ridgway and nearby
Montrose and who represented a member of the Sargsyan family, Nvart Idinyan, 30,
in a divorce case a few years ago.

Mr. Fitzhugh said that he supported the campaign for the family, but that he
also hoped it made people think about immigrants not as well loved as the
Sargsyans.

''I champion it in part because it might shed light on these other cases,'' he
said.

The Ouray County sheriff, Dominic Mattivi Jr., said he thought the Sargsyan case
revealed the uneven enforcement of immigration law by the government in small
communities like Ridgway, where Hispanic immigrants have become economic
mainstays, especially in the construction and tourism industries.

''Unless a Mexican commits a felony, they don't want to hear about it,'' Sheriff
Mattivi said of the immigration service.

And the rules are tough to enforce, he said, given the proximity and porousness
of the United States' border with Mexico. One Mexican resident who was recently
convicted on a drug charge was deported, Sheriff Mattivi said, but was back in
town and at work just two weeks later.

The family's visa troubles began after Ms. Idinyan's divorce, when her
ex-husband turned in the family to the authorities. Family members say the
ex-husband, a United States citizen who has since left the country, was also the
person who arranged the family's immigration, defrauding them in the process. He
took money from the Sargsyans and other Armenians, they say, for arranging
student visas that he falsely promised did not require enrollment in school.

The family's lawyer, Jeff Joseph, has filed an application under a visa program
for victims of immigrant trafficking. Mr. Joseph said the two boys, Hayk and
Gevorg, who is a sophomore in chemical engineering at the University of Colorado
in Boulder, were legally adopted before their 16th birthdays by Ms. Idinyan's
new husband, Max Noland, who is a United States citizen, and that they should be
protected from deportation by that shield as well.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Carl Rusnok, said he could
not comment on the outlook for the family's case. He said he thought the matter
would be concluded within the next few months.

Dr. Engdahl at the Church of the San Juans said the Sargsyan case was bigger
than one town or one family because of the questions it raised about how
security fears after Sept. 11 were changing the nation.

''The country once welcomed people like them, but if we're not that country any
more, because we're so concerned about being violated, what does that do to the
United States?'' he said. ''That's the question we should be asking.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bulletin board at Ridgway School shows photos from a rally at
an immigration jail near Denver where members of the Sargsyan family were held
until Thursday. On Saturday, Susan Sargsyan, front, and her husband, Ruben,
behind, were embraced at a reception in a Ridgway park. (Photographs by Kevin
Moloney for The New York Times)Map of Colorado highlighting Ridgway: Residents
of Ridgway, Colo., have stood behind an Armenian family.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 13, 2004 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant Group in a Rush to Marry Young

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words


As a girl growing up in Ukraine, Galit Galak wove macrame and dreamed of wedding
dresses, the kind measured in kilometers of satin.

After five years spent studying design in Israel, Ms. Galak, 33, moved to New
York and opened a bridal shop in the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn, where
she began making dresses as big and engineered as any painted by Fragonard. Her
own occasion to wear such a garment came when she married another Ukrainian, who
proposed after an appraisal period of 10 days.

Opening a bridal store in one of New York's Russian-speaking neighborhoods is,
it turns out, about as risky as erecting a surf shop on the Pacific Coast
Highway. Among the wave of newcomers to the United States since the late 1960's,
Russian-speaking women appear to be the likeliest to marry of all.

By the time they turn 40, only 4 percent of women born in Russia or one of the
other former Soviet republics have never married, compared with 15 percent for
all women in that age group in the United States. Even among other ethnic
groups, they stand out, with a rate of never-married women that is less than
half that of foreign-born Chinese and a third that of foreign-born Hispanics,
according to an analysis of 2000 census data for The New York Times.

By age 40, Russian-speaking women in the United States have higher rates of
divorce than all other major groups of female immigrants, according to the 2000
census, but that may just reflect their higher rate of marriage.

Russian-speaking women in the United States also seem inclined to marry at a
younger age than most. A continuing study, the Immigrant Second Generation in
Metropolitan New York, begun in 1998, found that Russian Jewish women ages 18 to
32 married earlier than any other group of women surveyed. Half were married by
age 22. (National census data for 2003 shows the average age for a woman's first
marriage was 25.3)

Although most women who immigrated from the former Soviet Union from the 1970's
through 1990's were Jewish, experts in that group's immigration say the pattern
of early marriage is attributable to cultural family patterns that transcend
religious beliefs, and is thus likely to extend to all Russian-speaking
immigrants. They tend to follow the example of their parents, many of whom
married in their early 20's.

Alla Farber-McEntee, 33, who arrived in Brooklyn with her family in 1981 as a
10-year-old from the republic of Belarus, said: ''I think in general, Russian
families are very close, and older generations help out younger ones and thus
the younger ones are highly influenced by their parents and even grandparents.''

In contrast to contemporary American culture, where marriage at too young an age
is viewed as irresponsible, ''marriage in this community is generally considered
a good thing, especially if it is to someone seen as a quote-unquote good guy,''
said Aviva Zeltzer-Zubida, an assistant professor of sociology at Brooklyn
College who has studied Russian immigrants in New York.

''The community really does promote it,'' said Esther Leviev, speaking of early
marriages. Ms. Leviev grew up in the Borough Park section of Brooklyn after her
family immigrated from Uzbekistan in 1987; she will marry next month at the age
of 20. Her fiance, also from Borough Park, is 21. The couple met through friends
and became engaged one month later. ''Seventeen would be considered too young,
but if you were 26 and not married people would wonder why,'' Ms. Leviev said.

At Marie Shall, another wedding dress shop with a largely Russian clientele, the
owner, Marina Shalyakhova, said the oldest bride she ever had was 30.

The decision to marry early may also be rooted in a cultural aversion to
protracted dating. Ms. Farber-McEntee said, ''You start dating a Russian and
things progress pretty quickly.'' Russian men, her sister Elizabeth Kravtsova
said, ''just don't have the commitment issues American men do.''

The focus on marriage in the Russian-speaking community explains a curious
entrepreneurial gambit: a magazine called Russian Bride of New York. Founded
this year by a hairdresser named Alex Aranbaev, who immigrated to the United
States from Samarkand, Uzbekistan, the bilingual magazine (circulation 60,000)
exists as a kind of Martha Stewart Weddings for young women of Soviet heritage.
There are more than 200,000 such single women in the United States, over a
quarter of them in the New York metropolitan area. Mr. Aranbaev envisioned a
magazine that would interpret American wedding rituals while at the same time
promote the preservation of Russian tastes.

The fall issue encourages the purchase of bridal gowns from Russian purveyors in
the outer boroughs and taking honeymoons in the Seychelles or Fiji --
destinations that would allow readers, the editors make note, to follow the
examples of Michelle Pfeiffer and Bill Gates.

Featured as well is a short instructional explaining just what a cake should
look like in the American marriage celebration. ''A traditional wedding cake is
white and pink in color and has a number of layers,'' the editors wrote. ''The
design can be anything you want, ranging from a lady's hat to an elephant or an
automobile.''

Ms. Leviev realizes that her decision to marry at 20 is unusual by American
standards. Her Jewish American friends at Yeshiva University, where she is a
student, do not believe in getting married before they have finished their
degrees, she has observed. Even her parents had hoped she would defer marriage
until after graduation, but Ms. Leviev did not see the point. On the dating
habits of young Russians, she said: ''Your attitude is that you are doing it for
a higher purpose. A lot of people in the American community seem to date so that
they have something to talk about with a friend at dinner.''

''If you are going out with someone for two years and you haven't figured out
some integral part of the relationship and you're not sure and you don't know,
then you shouldn't be together.''

Ms. Farber-McEntee said she believed that foreshortened periods of dating had
much to do with a mind-set entrenched in a relatively more goal-oriented
approach to life. ''As early as high school because of our 'Russian mentality'
we tend to date more seriously, looking at every boyfriend as possible husband
material -- rather than casually dating, without considering the future,'' she
said in an e-mail message.

Weddings themselves in the Russian-speaking world, one quickly learns from a
glance at Russian Bride, are not occasions for a lily-of-the-valley brand of
minimalism.

A few weeks ago, Tali Arabov, 21, and Avi Levy, 22, held their 500-person
wedding -- a size typical in the Russian-speaking community -- at the Crest
Hollow Country Club in Woodbury, N.Y. The cocktail hour, which preceded the
ceremony, included a vast pasta bar and an offering of sushi in a miniature
gondola.

Serving as master of ceremonies was Yuhan Benyaminov, an immigrant from
Uzbekistan who has given himself the stage name Yunan Benjamin and has become
the most sought-after wedding singer in Russian-speaking New York. Before the
service was conducted he announced the entrance of every member of the bride and
groom's extended family (''Let's hear it for Molly and Yakov!''), and then,
ultimately, the rabbi, as if the rabbi were Elton John making an unscheduled
appearance at Royal Albert Hall.

Registries and gifts of blenders or fish knives are unheard of at a Russian
wedding. The receptions themselves are often paid for in large part by the
community, Mr. Aranbaev said, meaning that guests know to bring an envelope with
a sum of money equal to the cost of the per-plate price at a particular catering
hall or restaurant.

The ambivalent attitudes toward assimilation that pervade Russian Bride remain
apparent in many aspects of young Russian life. The Second Generation project
found that young Russians tended to stay close to home for college, typically
living with parents through the undergraduate years and until marriage, while
those from other immigrant groups ventured farther away.

Although young Russian women living in the United States remain intensely tied
to the world of their elders, they are also marrying outside their ethnicity
more than young women from any other large immigrant group, analysis from the
2000 census conducted for this article indicated. More than 25 percent of women
18 to 40 years old born in Russia or one of the other former Soviet republics
have been marrying outside their Russian- and Soviet-emigre community.

Explaining this, Philip Kasinitz, a director of the Second Generation project
and a professor of sociology at the Graduate Center of the City University of
New York, said that it is often more important for Russian Jews to marry within
the Jewish faith than it is within the Russian world.

Others speculate that young Russian women may marry outside their community
because they received a poor view of Russian unions as they played out during
the Soviet era. ''Alcoholism and sexual infidelity were encouraged in the
culture of the Soviet Union,'' said Tony Carnes, a sociologist at Columbia and a
director of the Research Institute for New Americans. ''Many of those marriages
were not exclusive. A single woman who is here may have seen some of that and
wanted to find stable partnership without going into the Russian context.''

On the day after Thanksgiving at Galit Couture, Ms. Galak's shop, Monica
Polakov, 29, a Ukrainian who grew up in Great Neck, readied herself for her
coming wedding to an Englishman. Her mother, Galina, looked on adoringly as she
stepped into her corseted gown. Still, Mrs. Polakov said, she wished that her
daughter had found cause to wear it a good few years sooner.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2005



CORRECTION: A front-page article on June 21 about evangelical Christians in New
York City referred imprecisely to Tony Carnes, a sociologist and a writer for
the magazine Christianity Today. (The error also appeared in articles on Dec.
13, 2004, and Nov. 5 and 14, 2004.) He is the director of a social sciences
seminar at Columbia University; he is not on the faculty.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Lina Kats, 24, of Staten Island, who was born in Ukraine, is
fitted by Marina Shalyakhova, owner of a shop in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. (Photo
by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Vladimir Balandin, 27, holding glass, and Hanna Famina, 24, celebrate their
marriage at Da Mikelle Palace in Queens. The couple dined and danced with family
and friends. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 Russian Bride of New York was founded by an immigrant from Uzbekistan. (pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 15, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Continent Watching Anxiously Over the Melting Pot

BYLINE: By Richard Bernstein

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1086 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Dec. 14


Imagine a former American president publicly grumbling that it was a mistake for
a certain group to have been allowed to immigrate to the United States -- the
Irish, say, or Jews, or Pakistanis. The outrage would be justifiably loud.

But a former German chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, now 85, recently declared that
Germany should never have invited in all those Turkish guest workers in the
1950's and 60's, because, he suggested, multiculturalism can work only in an
authoritarian society.

The comment was not widely regarded as brilliant or wise, but it caused no
uproar; indeed, it was consistent with many statements coming from German
leaders lately on the subject of ethnic and cultural minorities.

''Multiculturalism has failed, big time,'' Angela Merkel, the almost certain
conservative candidate for chancellor in the next national elections, said
recently. Many political figures and commentators have been saying that
immigrants should accept what the Germans call the leitkultur, the dominant
culture, as their own, or they should leave.

''We cannot allow foreigners to destroy this common basis,'' warned Jorg
Schonbohm, the interior minister of the state of Brandenburg.

And so the question: why are Germans -- and not just Germans but other Europeans
as well -- in such a state of anxiety and uncertainty about matters that have
been more or less settled in the world's biggest country of immigration, the
United States, for years? Why this discomfort with multiculturalism, this belief
that assimilation, accepting the leitkultur, is the only way?

One reason clearly has to do with a dread of terrorism and Muslim
fundamentalism. A great deal of the current heated discussion was prompted by
the killing of the Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh, allegedly by a Muslim
militant. The killing has had a galvanizing effect in this country, where the
feeling was strong that the conditions were in place for something like it to
happen here.

But, of course, the Americans suffered a vastly greater attack than the Dutch
did, and that has not led to strong anti-diversity sentiment. In the immediate
aftermath of 9/11, there were deep new suspicions, and widespread roundups of
Muslims suspected of connections to terrorism. About the only area where the
United States approaches the European debate on assimilation is in bilingual
education, an issue that waxes and wanes. But there is no anti-immigrant
political party in America, not even the constituency for one.

The difference, many here say, is that the United States was basically created
by immigrants, and Europe was not. Therefore, especially after the civil rights
movement, diversity in the United States has come to be seen as a value in
itself, while Europe sees it as threatening.

But this explanation, too, only goes so far. European countries have experienced
large migrations for much of their history -- the Poles in Germany, for example.
What many people are saying, and certainly what many more people believe, is
that the problem for Europe is less the traditions of the majority population
than the nature of the immigrants themselves.

Specifically, in Europe the immigration is largely Muslim, and that has brought
into the heart of the Continent a large population that resists integration and
includes a proportion of people who are like the suspect in the Van Gogh
killing: angry religious militants carrying on a war to the death with the West.

''The cultural problem is the crucial one,'' said Heinrich August Winkler, one
of Germany's best-known historians, ''because the political culture of many
Muslims is very different from the political culture of Europe.''

Europeans often emphasize the backwardness of the immigrants. ''Our immigration
was mostly from the Rif Mountains of Morocco, which is a poor, illiterate area
with no jobs and no future,'' said Leon de Winter, a Dutch writer and a
columnist for the German newspaper Die Welt. They came, moreover, in the late
1950's and 60's, Mr. de Winter said, just at the time when the Dutch were
undergoing the 60's revolution, elebrating sexual liberation, experimenting with
drugs, flaunting a colorfully libertarian lifestyle that was especially alien to
the newcomers.

In Germany, the largest immigration is Turkish, tens of thousands of people
having been lured to Germany by labor-short businesses in the 1950's and 60's.
They came from eastern Anatolia, which is conservative and religiously observant
by the standards of the majority culture in Turkey, not just in Germany.

The German press often brings this point home with reports of such events as
honor killings among the Turks or the forcing of girls into marriage against
their will. Because these things do happen, they give credibility to the view
that the Turks in general constitute what is being called a ''parallel
society.'' And so the political discourse generally rejects multiculturalism and
diversity, emphasizing instead the duty to adopt the leitkultur, to learn
German, to accept Germany's Judeo-Christian heritage as well as its
Constitution, with its guarantees of equality for women.

And yet, most Turks, certainly of the second and third generations, do speak
German, and nobody seems to be demanding that Shariah, Islamic law, be
instituted in Germany.

To some spokesmen for Germany's 2.2 million Turks, the political discourse
misses the point. True, they say, Europe's immigration was poor and traditional,
especially compared with that of the United States, but Germany wanted it that
way. To insist on assimilation and to repudiate diversity is to fail to accept
responsibility for that. Moreover, they say, people cannot be forced to
assimilate.

''I was on a television discussion program,'' remembers Mustafa Yoldas, a
physician from Hamburg, the son of a guest worker, and now the vice chairman of
the Islamic Association of North Germany. ''After it, there was a poll about
whether Muslims were a threat to Germany or an enrichment. Two-thirds said a
threat, one-third said an enrichment.''

The view that Muslims are a threat seems to lie behind one of the most discussed
of the recent statements made after the van Gogh killing, by Annette Schavan,
minister for culture in the state of Baden-Wurttemberg, who called for a law
requiring all sermons in mosques to be in German.

''In America,'' Mr. Yoldas said, referring not just to proposals like that but
to what he feels is the broad attitude underlying it, ''immigrants are proud to
be immigrants, but in Germany we are being endured.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muslim dress in Furstenfeldbruck, Bavaria. Germans wonder if
assimilation might produce a happier future. (Photo by Johannes Simon/Agence
France-Presse--Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 15, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wrenching Tale by an Afghan Immigrant Strikes a Chord

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH, Fla.


Few aspects of this swank oceanside resort call to mind the harsh grind of daily
life in Kabul, Afghanistan. Yet when a local book group met here recently to
discuss ''The Kite Runner,'' the stunningly successful first novel by an Afghan
immigrant, many group members said they felt they were reading pages out of
their own lives.

To Esta Jacobson, the book's descriptions of a boy's decision to run from the
bullies who were tormenting his friend evoked memories of growing up in South
Africa and silently watching harassment of blacks in the streets.

To Yvonne Campbell, the arbitrary violence of the Taliban reminded her of the
deportation of her parents and neighbors in Toulouse to Nazi concentration
camps. And Nancy Hertzberg said the rigid caste system in the novel recalled the
interactions of her condominium neighbors with their Guatemalan gardeners.

''The Kite Runner,'' by Khaled Hosseini, a previously unknown son of an Afghan
political refugee, has captivated reading groups across the country with its
rich mix of familiar morality tale and timely world history. Without any
significant national publicity -- no recommendation by Oprah Winfrey or a
morning television show, no superstar author backed by a multimillion-dollar
advertising campaign -- the book has steadily climbed the best-seller lists,
rising as high as No.5 on the paperback best-seller list of The New York Times
and selling more than 500,000 copies in seven months, a significant achievement
for a literary novel.

It has done so thanks to the word-of-mouth recommendations of librarians and
book sellers and on the strength of local book clubs, like the one here in Palm
Beach, as well as community reading programs, where one book is chosen by a city
or region, like eastern Connecticut or the central California valley.

The popularity of ''The Kite Runner,'' the tale of the friendship of two Afghan
boys and how one's betrayal of the other affects their adult lives in Kabul and
California, is all the more unusual in an age when relatively few novels set
outside the English-speaking world register much American success. Even after
Sept. 11, Afghanistan remains an obscure if not inscrutable place to many
Americans, and the book's unsympathetic protagonist and lack of any significant
female characters only make it feel more foreign.

People who have read the book, however, speak almost exclusively of how they
were touched by its universal themes. ''There are so many basic human emotions
at work here,'' said John Tegano, a member of the Palm Beach group.

The book's success validates the decision by Riverhead Books, the publisher, to
pay a surprisingly large advance of $500,000 for the manuscript, even knowing
that it would require significant rewriting. But part of the attraction was that
the life story of the author, Mr. Hosseini, 39, could itself be the source of a
best seller.

The son of an Afghan diplomat and a mother who taught high school in Kabul, Mr.
Hosseini grew up in Kabul, Tehran and Paris, where his father was stationed when
the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1980. The family was granted political
asylum in the United States and moved to San Jose, Calif., in September of that
year.

Arriving in the United States at age 15, Mr. Hosseini learned English only after
starting high school in California. His family, which enjoyed significant wealth
in Afghanistan, spent its initial months there on welfare. After Mr. Hosseini
graduated from Santa Clara University and earned a medical degree from the
University of California, San Diego, he served a residency at Cedars-Sinai
Hospital in Los Angeles. A semi-arranged marriage to another Afghan immigrant
followed, and he began practicing in internal medicine at a Kaiser Permanente
office in Silicon Valley.

It was only after spending several years as a physician that Mr. Hosseini began
to write, rising at 5 a.m. each day to sketch out short stories and, much later,
his novel, before going to work. A half-dozen stories, mainly thrillers or
gothic horror tales, were published online or in experimental zines. But
submissions to The New Yorker, Harper's, Esquire and other mainstream
publications brought nothing but rejections.

One short story, however -- a tale of a young Afghan boy and the son of the
family servant, whose pastimes included the ancient Afghan sport of kite flying
-- caught the attention of a fan. ''My wife had passed a copy to my
father-in-law,'' Mr. Hosseini said in an interview. ''He called me and left a
message saying he wished the story had been a lot longer. He wanted to know what
happened to Amir and Hassan.''

The story of Amir, the son of a rug exporter, and his friend Hassan stretches
across several decades of Afghan history, from the monarchy of Mohammad Zahir
Shah, through the bloodless coup in 1973, the Communist takeover in 1978, the
Soviet invasion in 1979 and the reign of the Taliban, ending after the American
invasion following Sept. 11, 2001.

As first drafted, the novel was far from perfect, but it drew the attention of
several New York editors, including Cindy Spiegel, co-publisher of Riverhead, a
division of the Penguin Group USA.

''The truth is it needed work,'' Ms. Spiegel said. ''I think that is why other
people were less bullish. The last third of the book had to be rewritten.''

The main problem, Ms. Spiegel said and Mr. Hosseini confirmed, was that Amir,
after escaping Afghanistan and fleeing to Fremont, Calif., married an American
woman. The character was unbelievable -- not surprising, perhaps, for a writer
who had not grown up in the United States and who had married an Afghan woman
whom he had only met once. Mr. Hosseini agreed to make Amir's wife an Afghan
immigrant, a change that required the overhaul of the second half of the book.
Published in June 2003, ''The Kite Runner'' received generally good reviews.
Thanks to heavy promotion by the Penguin sales force, it received the
endorsements of Book Sense, the consortium of independent bookstores, which put
the book on its list of 76 new and noteworthy books. In February, Borders named
''The Kite Runner'' as the 2003 fiction winner of its Original Voices Awards,
giving the book prominent display in its stores.

But except for brisk sales in the San Francisco area, where the local papers
gave considerable attention to the new author, sales of ''The Kite Runner'' in
hardcover did not measure up to the author's advance, measuring about 50,000
copies in the first year.

When the paperback edition came out in May, however, sales began to climb. That
month, the book was named as the selection of the One Book, One Region program
of Eastern Connecticut, sponsored by the Connecticut Library Consortium and
other educators and community groups.

At least a dozen other community book groups followed, including those in
Woodland, Calif.; Johnson County, Iowa; Saratoga Springs, N.Y.; and Cincinnati.
More still have selected the book for reading programs in 2005, including Rhode
Island's statewide program, the Las Vegas Literary Society and the community of
Pittsboro, N.C. The book has also been adopted for courses at Penn State, the
University of Northern Colorado, the University of Iowa and James Madison
University.

''The community groups have been very instrumental in the success of this
book,'' Mr. Hosseini said . ''When I was in Connecticut, several people came up
to me and said this is not a book they would have picked up if not for this
program.''

''The Kite Runner'' finally made it onto The Times paperback best-seller list in
September, beginning at No.13 and climbing steadily over the past 12 weeks. (On
Sunday's list, the book will rank No.7.)

Mr. Hosseini has been tireless in promoting the book, logging more than 100
appearances, giving readings, signing books and discussing the novel -- all the
while continuing to work full-time as a Kaiser physician. Only this month did he
begin a yearlong sabbatical. Ms. Spiegel, the book's editor, said that based on
the reading programs already scheduled for next year, she expects the book to
continue to sell well for a year or two.

The reactions of the Palm Beach group suggest that will happen. ''I recognized
so many things that happened in my time,'' Ms. Campbell said, referring to the
years she spent living in a French convent, a Jewish girl hidden away by the
nuns as her parents and dozens of neighbors were deported by the Nazis. ''What
struck me about the characters here is that they're all very human.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A library discussion group in Palm Beach, Fla., on ''The Kite
Runner,'' a novel of friendship and betrayal set in Kabul and California. (Photo
by Barbara P. Fernandez)
 Khaled Hosseini, author of the surprisingly successful ''Kite Runner.'' (Photo
by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. E10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guyanese Immigrants Cautious About Being Labeled

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Indian, Twice Removed; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words


Even if the welcome mat has not always been rolled out, immigrants have usually
found their first foothold in the neighborhoods of their more established ethnic
soul mates.

Irish-brogue newcomers moved into already cloverleafed enclaves of the northwest
Bronx, off-the-boat Italians went into a Bensonhurst of homes adorned with
front-yard Madonnas, and Soviet Jewish refugees found shelter among the knish
parlors of Brighton Beach.

But such an easy osmosis does not always happen. One group of newcomers that has
ended up living quite apart from its more established forerunners are the
Indians who came to the United States not directly from India but from Guyana,
on the northern coast of South America, and other parts of the Caribbean.

These Indo-Caribbeans have not felt particularly embraced by the more
flourishing Indian communities of Flushing and Elmhurst in Queens, nor have they
made many overtures to the Indians. Instead they have cobbled together their own
fragrant neighborhood of roti, saris and gold jewelry shops among the row houses
of Richmond Hill, Queens.

''From my experience, we're not Indian,'' said Latchman Budhai, 56, the former
president of the Maha Lakshmi Mandir, a Hindu temple in Richmond Hill whose
members are almost all Guyanese-Americans. ''We look like Indian, but we're not
Indian.''

The comparative chasm between two kindred communities tells volumes about the
complex history of Diaspora Indians. It also tells a lot about the general tango
of sensitivities between longer-rooted immigrants and their raw cousins.

Historians, for example, have noted how, during the late 19th century, some
German Jews, a comfortable generation removed from Europe, kept less-polished
Jewish arrivals from Eastern Europe at a condescending arm's length, although
many created the institutions that helped the newcomers assimilate.

Similarly, Cubans who fled the island in 1959 when Fidel Castro took power were
sometimes less than welcoming to the refugees of the 1980 Mariel boatlift.

''Certainly the major impulse is to help the less fortunate parts of the
community,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research
at the City University of New York. ''But, at the same time, people giving help
are the more assimilated, whereas people who need help are at the bottom and
don't have the prestige and status. There's more of a tendency of the more
established people wanting to distinguish themselves from the newcomers.''

Some Guyanese talk with hurt about not quite being accepted as Indian. Mr.
Budhai recalled how in 1978, his wife, Serojini, won an Indian beauty pageant
but was never awarded the top prize, a trip to India, after the organizers
learned she was Guyanese.

Still, some Indians think the chill is exaggerated. Uma Sengupta, a native
Indian who is a Democratic leader in the 25th Assembly district, said the
distance simply represents an encounter of two very different cultures. ''Even
if they don't mix, that doesn't mean they look down,'' she said.

Most Guyanese, and the smaller number of Trinidadians in Richmond Hill, are
descendants of Indians who were brought over to the Caribbean starting in 1838
as contract laborers on sugar plantations after slavery was outlawed in the
region's British colonies. The influx of indentured laborers continued into the
first decades of the 20th century, and Indians eventually formed a majority of
the population in Guyana, the former British Guiana, and they became 40 percent
of the population of what is now the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.

In the political or economic upheavals of the 1970's and 1980's, Indo-Caribbeans
began leaving for the United States, where Indian professionals from Asia had
already settled more than a decade before.

''While these two groups share a common ancestry, their historical experiences
and the timing and nature of their immigration set them apart,'' said Madhulika
S. Khandelwal, an Indian immigrant who directs the Asian American Center at
Queens College.

For Guyanese, even those who grew up with Indian grandparents who had been
indentured servants, the passage of time has worn away much of their Indian
cultural character. For many, it has erased their fluency with Hindi or other
South Asian languages and given their English a singsong lilt and Creole
dialect. Guyanese curries are less spicy, and a shop that serves the flat roti
bread with various stews is a distinctly Caribbean conception.

Guyanese music, while Indian influenced, is marked by a faster West Indian style
that has come to be known as chutney soca. Tofayel Chowdhury, owner of the
Fabric Depot and one of only a handful of shopkeepers who came from India on
Liberty Avenue, the Richmond Hill shopping thoroughfare, noted that few Guyanese
women wear saris every day as many Indian women do.

Both those with Guyanese and Indian heritage are steeped in British and Hindu
culture. But they pray in separate temples and play for different cricket teams.
While Guyanese parents limit their children's dating choices to serious suitors,
they do not insist on choosing spouses, something many Indian parents still do.
Even Guyanese names are distinguishing, with common Indian first names serving
as their last names because of how British planters addressed them.

The 2000 census identified 24,662 people in Richmond Hill who were born in
Guyana and 7,384 born in Trinidad, and in this neighborhood the overwhelming
proportions of both groups are of Indian descent. (The Census counted 130,496
Guyanese-born residents in all of New York City, but 43 percent were black, a
majority of whom have chosen to live in Brooklyn's West Indian neighborhoods.)
These figures do not count the large numbers of children of Guyanese and
Trinidadian immigrants born here.

Racial data is particularly fluid, according to a study of Guyanese teenagers by
Natasha Warikoo, a Harvard doctoral student in sociology, because Guyanese find
it confusing to identify themselves as Asian but are not white, black, or
Hispanic either.

In Richmond Hill, Liberty Avenue's video stores are stocked mostly with romantic
musicals from India's Bollywood industry, and Ms. Warikoo said that teenage
Guyanese girls particularly look ''to an Indian culture based in India rather
than the Caribbean for 'authentic' Indian-ness.'' But the coolness between
Indians and Guyanese is apparent.

''They believe our grandparents quit India, so we are like strangers to them,''
said Outar Pooran, 68 a Guyanese who is retired from a porter's job at the
Giorgio Armani store in Midtown and is a leader at Mr. Budhai's temple.

Mr. Pooran knows Indians, he said, who always speak to him with the expression,
''You Guyanese people.''

''When I speak I say, 'We Indians,''' he said.

One thing Guyanese do not speak much about -- it is humiliating -- is what some
detect as lingering elitism. In Guyana the elaborate Indian caste system has
withered to virtual insignificance, while it has survived in India. The Indians
who signed up as contract laborers emerged largely from India's working castes
while those who came to New York from India in the 1960's were highly educated
professionals largely from higher castes.

Ms. Warikoo cautioned that the fact that Guyanese have set up a separate
neighborhood should not be overinterpreted. India, she said, is so fragmented
linguistically, religiously and geographically that many subcultures here have
carved out their own enclaves.

Indians from Gujarat, for example, have clustered in Forest Hills. In the past
decade or so, almost 5,000 Sikhs -- native Indians with a distinctive religion
who are recognizable to most New Yorkers by the turbans the men wear -- have
settled in Richmond Hill to be near their main gurdwara, or temple. Still, the
two communities live quite separately, people from both groups acknowledge.

Kris Oditt, the Guyanese owner of Brown Betty Restaurant, which serves such
distinctive Guyanese desserts as pineapple tarts and Chinese cakes, says
Guyanese have much warmer relations with other Diaspora Indians. Guyanese and
Trinidadian leaders work together in an organization known as the Indo-Caribbean
Federation. Mr. Budhai's son is engaged to a girl from Trinidad. Marriages with
Indian immigrants from India, though not unheard of, are far less common.

Scholars and people in Richmond Hill predict that attitudes will eventually
change. Bobbie Ramnath, a Liberty Avenue travel agent, notices that some
Guyanese are arranging trips to India to search for their roots. When a Sikh
spiritual leader was pummeled into unconsciousness in July by a group of people
who ridiculed his turban, Guyanese joined in the protests.

More Guyanese and Indian students are crossing ethnic boundaries. Priya Mahabir,
a 29-year-old Guyanese senior at Baruch College, said some Indian friends have
told her she's ''not really Indian, and I would be really offended by that,''
but she has also formed close friendships with Indians.

When she walks into a classroom, the first people she notices are those of
Indian descent, whether from India or Guyana.

''We call it the Indian Connection,'' she said. ''I glance over at them and they
glance over at me, and we exchange a smile.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A jewelry store in Richmond Hill typifies the Indo-Caribbean
influence on some neighborhoods in Queens. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York
Times)
Guyanese-Americans worshiping at the Maha Lakshmi Mandir temple. (Photo by
Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Almost all the members of the Maha Lakshmi Mandir temple in Richmond Hill are
Guyanese-Americans. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 Tofayel Chowdhury, owner of a fabric store, is one of only a handful of
shopkeepers on Liberty Avenue who is from India. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New
York Times)(pg. B12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 19, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's in a (Street) Name? Bitterness.

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT:
WOODSIDE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 470 words


It was the kind of proposal that rubber stamps are made for. A longtime
Irish-American advocate for immigrants dies a hero's death in Iraq, and the
group he helped found proposes renaming a block in Woodside, Queens, for him.

''A no-brainer,'' said City Councilman Eric Gioia, who submitted the proposal.
But on Dec. 2, for the first time since anyone could remember, Community Board 2
voted against the street renaming; the tally was 12-11, with four abstentions.

In a sense, it doesn't matter: the board's decision is just advisory. On
Wednesday, Mr. Gioia introduced legislation to rename Woodside Avenue from 59th
to 60th Streets after Frank Carvill, the 51-year-old co-founder of the Emerald
Isle Immigration Center. The council is likely to approve it.

But judging from the barrage of attacks from Mr. Carvill's colleagues,
politicians and articles in the local, Irish and citywide press, the issue
matters very much. ''Nobody could believe it was turned down,'' said Brian
O'Dwyer, chairman of Emerald Isle.

That reaction has left board members feeling vilified. ''Somehow, there's a leap
to some conclusion in all these articles and editorials that somehow the board
snubbed a war hero and denied a justly due honor,'' said Pat O'Brien, who voted
against the idea. Mr. Carvill, who worked as a paralegal at the World Trade
Center when it was bombed in 1993 and on 9/11, was killed in June while serving
with the New Jersey National Guard outside Baghdad.

On the board, resistance to street renamings had percolated since a series of
proposals were approved after Sept. 11. The fact that Mr. Carvill did not live
in Woodside (his home was in New Jersey) bothered some; others suggested
creating a local memorial to those killed in Iraq. Then there were political
issues: some board members are considered anti-Gioia, and there is bad blood
between the councilman and Joe Conley, the board chairman who ran against him in
2001.

Though several on the board spoke in favor of the renaming, no family,
colleagues or elected officials were there to back the proposal. And some board
members pointed out that such a speech could have swung the vote the other way.
But supporters noted that Emerald Isle's executive director had presented Mr.
Carvill's case at an earlier committee meeting of the board, and that Councilman
Gioia's staff was at the general meeting, handing out a letter on Mr. Carvill's
behalf.

Amid all the acrimony, Mr. Carvill's sister, Peggy Carvill Liguori, said she did
not feel anger.

''For them to even consider naming a street for him is an honor in itself,'' she
said. ''They didn't know Frank and how much time and effort he put into the
community.'' Besides, she added, Passaic Avenue, the street where they grew up
in Carlstadt, N.J., is also known as Frank Carvill Way.   SETH KUGEL


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Carvill (Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 21, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Dream, Plus Calories

BYLINE: By ERIC NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Health & Fitness; VITAL SIGNS: PATTERNS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 241 words


Many immigrants come to the United States for the good life. But a new study
suggests that living well can carry a cost.

Over the years, researchers report, immigrants tend to become just as obese as
born-and-bred Americans -- even if they are from countries where obesity is less
common.

The findings are based on a federal health survey of more than 30,000 people,
about 14 percent of them born abroad. On average, the researchers found, about 8
percent of the immigrants studied would have been considered obese in their
first year of coming to this country.

But 15 years later, the rate was 19 percent, close to the 22 percent rate for
Americans over all. Thirty-eight percent of the immigrants were found to be
overweight.

''Trends in obesity among immigrants may reflect acculturation and adoption of
the U.S. lifestyle, such as increased sedentary behavior and poor dietary
patterns,'' the study said. ''They may also be a response to the physical
environment of the United States, with increased availability of calorically
dense foods and higher reliance on labor-saving technologies.''

Doctors who treat immigrants, the researchers suggested, should make a special
effort to counsel them about diet and exercise.

The study, which appeared last week in The Journal of the American Medical
Association, was led by Dr. Mita Sanghavi Goel of the Feinberg School of
Medicine at Northwestern University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 22, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Plattsburgh: Charges Dropped Against Immigrant

BYLINE: By David W. Chen (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 133 words


A judge dismissed all charges yesterday against David Wong, formally ending a
case that had become a cause celebre among Asian-American activists who believed
Mr. Wong, left, had been wrongly convicted of killing a fellow inmate at an
upstate prison in 1986. Mr. Wong, an illegal Chinese immigrant had been serving
time on an armed robbery conviction when the murder occurred at Clinton
Correctional Facility in Dannemora, N.Y. In a four-page ruling, Richard C.
Giardino, acting Clinton County Court judge, said that because of new evidence
raising doubts about Mr. Wong's guilt, any new trial ''would likely result in an
acquittal.'' Mr. Wong, a former Chinatown bus boy, was scheduled to be deported
to China, but his lawyers have pledged to try to keep him in the United States.
David W. Chen (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 22, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Now Is the Time to Give

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 475 words


Throughout the world, the same tributaries feed national identity -- language,
culture, history, institutions. But in the United States, belonging is also
nourished by a shared dream, a construct that is central to our politics and
collective imagination, to our deepest strivings and most improbable
achievements.

The American dream is not merely American. It is a dream of immigrants, for whom
America is not a birthright but a choice, an often painful one driven by
poverty, war or other human tragedy.

Nowhere is that choice lived more intensely than in New York City. And nowhere
else do dream and reality clash more often and more poignantly.

Studies suggest that 40 of every 100 New Yorkers are foreign born. That's the
highest figure since the heyday of Ellis Island, and indicates profound
challenges -- learning English; accessing medical care; providing housing,
education and income; and reuniting families separated not only by oceans but
also by impenetrable bureaucracies. Adversity builds character, and the new
immigrants evince that. But too much adversity can cause irreparable damage to
the human spirit and physical health. New Yorkers must not let that happen to
their fellow New Yorkers.

Since 1912, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been helping the neediest
New Yorkers -- immigrants who might otherwise lose their way, as well as single
mothers, the forgotten elderly, the ill and injured and unemployed. The humblest
aid, well timed, can make the difference. This year so far, the fund has raised
$3.9 million, some half a million dollars less than at this point in last year's
drive. The shortfall is that much starker in a year when New York City feasts on
high-end giving, like the renovation of the Museum of Modern Art, and when the
financial business, the city's signature industry, doles out fat bonuses. To us,
it's painful. The central figures of the Christmas story were strangers, in need
of shelter, in need of care, in need of baby clothes, even. Now is the time to
give to people like that.

Every cent that is donated to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund is
distributed to one of seven local charities: the Brooklyn Bureau of Community
Service; the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York; the Catholic
Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens; the Children's Aid Society; the
Community Service Society of New York; the Federation of Protestant Welfare
Agencies; and the UJA-Federation of New York. The Times pays the fund's
administrative costs.

Please send your check to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, 4 Chase
Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. You may
also contribute by using a credit card and calling (212) 556-5851 (Extension 7),
or by going online at www.nytimes.com/neediest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Any Room at the Inn? Mexican Immigrants Shelter a Holy Tradition

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Yonkers Journal; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: YONKERS, Dec. 22


Crowded almost shoulder to shoulder in a bare one-bedroom apartment, the women
and children nibble on tamales and sip hot chocolate, bracing for the bitter
cold outside. Soon, they will begin their nightly walk.

They will march down South Broadway and begin la posada -- Spanish for ''the
inn'' -- re-enacting the biblical story of Mary's and Joseph's search for a room
in Bethlehem the night before Jesus was born. As the 30 or so members of the
extended Aguilar family begin their procession to a home a few blocks away, they
are carrying on a tradition that has endured for hundreds of years, thousands of
miles away in their Mexican homeland.

''In the name of heaven, can you give us shelter?'' they sing in Spanish,
arriving outside the door to an aunt's apartment. ''Because my beloved wife
cannot travel.''

A chorus of voices from inside responds: ''This is not an inn, move on. I cannot
open it, I don't know if you are some kind of criminal.''

The back and forth continues, until after pleading for six more verses, the
group is finally allowed in.

Many historians believe the tradition of posadas in Mexico dates back to
missionaries in the 16th century, who were trying to teach indigenous people the
story of Christmas. Other Latin American countries have adopted similar
traditions, with entire villages taking part in processions during the nights
leading up to Christmas Eve.

Here, though, the processions take on different meanings, as immigrant families
struggle to keep the tradition alive. Many can see their own personal history
reflected in the biblical story, said the Rev. John O. Grange, the pastor at the
Church of St. Jerome in the Mott Haven neighborhood of the Bronx, where about 80
percent of its 1,000 members are Mexican.

''They see that the holy family was shut out, and they have that same kind of
experience,'' Father Grange said. ''They come here looking for a home and they
are shut out. Even if that is not the way they explain it to their children,
that is the reality. And they see that eventually the families find a home.''

For Lus Maria Aguilar, who is known as la duena -- the boss -- of the family,
there is one reason she spends hours coordinating the monthlong festivities in
south Yonkers.

''They have to keep doing it,'' said Ms. Aguilar, motioning to the dozens of
children in the room on Monday night this week. ''They have to keep the customs
of our country. Now we are here and they go to school and learn that Christmas
is about presents. But this tells them no, it is about God.''

To keep the posadas going, there are compromises that must be made.
House-to-house processions are common in California, Arizona or Texas, but many
immigrant families find it difficult to do the same in New York, where people
typically live in small apartments. Some parishes, like St. Jerome's in the
Bronx, have tweaked the tradition, with people knocking on the doors of the
church to perform the posadas.

Rosie Garcia, who is part of the Aguilar family, recalls the posadas back home
as being quite different. In the small central Mexican town of Tehuitzingo,
where she grew up, the processions would clog the streets, with music blasting
from homes and children playing with pinatas late into the night.

''Of course it is not the same here,'' she said, holding her plate of steaming
tamales wrapped in corn husks. ''But in my heart, I wouldn't know that it is
Christmas without this.''

Typically, posadas are held for the nine nights leading up to Christmas Eve, but
the Aguilar family's tradition has expanded to the entire month, to allow more
people to participate.

''It is an honor to have this at my home,'' said Guillermina Lopez, who was the
host at Monday night's posada. Like the women who had been hosts before her, she
had set up an elaborate altar to hold the manger. Dozens of candles crowded a
table and a Mexican flag hung on the wall surrounded by sparkling Christmas
decorations.

''We make everything ourselves so that the others can celebrate,'' Ms. Lopez
said.

Each night, the Aguilar family begins at the same home where they were the
previous night. Before they leave, they offer prayers for the host, asking that
God bless the home that allowed them in. As they sing ''God is with me'' while
walking past homes, pizza shops and hair salons, a few people come to the window
to watch the passers-by.

''Can I come?'' one teenager shouts out.

The young Aguilar cousins often explain the posadas to friends at school and
occasionally recruit them to join the family for a few nights. One cousin, Jenny
Balbuena, 6, proudly announced to a visitor that she had not missed a single
night.

''I know all of the songs by heart,'' she said, watching the red wax from her
candle drip on her powder blue glove. ''Isn't it pretty?''

There is no room in the apartments for pinatas, so the parents usually pass out
small bags filled with treats of chocolate, peanuts and lollipops. Bags of
Doritos seem to be the most popular contemporary addition.

The most exciting time will come on Friday night, when the children will dress
as Mary, Joseph and the three kings. All the parents have the night off, so the
group, both Aguilar family members and friends, may swell to 100 people. They
will sing, dance and eat more tamales.

And, at last, they will break a pinata.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: La posada, a procession re-enacting the search for shelter in
Bethlehem, at St. Jerome's Church in Mott Haven, the Bronx. (Photo by James
Estrin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 24, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Kindness of Strangers

BYLINE: By Ruben Martinez.

Ruben Martinez, an associate professor of creative writing at the University of
Houston, is the author of ''The New Americans'' and ''Crossing Over: A Mexican
Family on the Migrant Trail.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1322 words

DATELINE: Velarde, N.M.


THE young couple knocks on the heavy wooden door. They are weary and the hour is
late; it is bitterly cold.

The husband says: ''En nombre del cielo, os pido posada,'' in the name of
heaven, I ask thee for lodging.

From behind the door comes the answer: ''Este no es meson, sigan adelante, yo no
debo abrir, sea algun tunante,'' this is not an inn, move along, I shouldn't
open up, it may be a thief.

The centuries-old tradition of las posadas is celebrated throughout Mexico and
in practically every Mexican neighborhood in America in the days before
Christmas. Jose and Maria trudge from door to door, turned away again and again
until they are finally allowed to bed down in the humble manger where the Christ
child is born. Everyone in the neighborhood gets a part in the play.

Like many traditions, this one can resonate with different tones according to
the political tenor of the times. And with the immigration debate on the
national agenda -- President Bush is once again promoting ''guest worker''
legislation -- this Christmas parable asks us to step inside the shoes of both
the protagonists and antagonists, the migrant couple seeking shelter and the
innkeepers who, momentarily, hold such power over the couple's fate.

Las posadas is a story about hospitality, certainly a ''moral value,'' but not
one pollsters ask about. Based on the notion of pilgrimage, a spiritual journey
undertaken through the flesh, it is present in practically all the world's
religions. Without the hospitality of those who live along the roads of one's
pilgrimage -- be it the hajj of Islam or a Catholic penitent's journey to a
shrine -- one would never arrive at one's destination. Hospitality implies
reciprocity: the pilgrim received with generosity will one day have the occasion
to return the favor. To shut the door on the wayfaring stranger would be to
negate the possibility of one's own journey.

Of course, we shut the door all the time. We conclude, as the innkeepers do in
the posada play, that Jose and Maria aren't pilgrims at all; they are
''thieves'' intent on taking from us and giving nothing in return. That is
precisely what a strong majority of voters in Arizona apparently believed in
November when they passed Proposition 200, which denies most public benefits to
illegal migrants; on Wednesday, a federal judge cleared the way for the
proposition to become law. ''They'' have come here merely to feed off America's
welfare state -- to take something for nothing. We do not extend hospitality to
thieves.

Philosophers have long debated the ethics of hospitality, which raises a series
of existential, legal and moral questions. Is pure hospitality practicable in a
world of human unpredictability? Or is hospitality an indispensable practice
precisely because of human unpredictability? In the post-9/11 world, we ponder
the question more in terms of national security. How does one discern between
the stranger to whom hospitality should be extended, and the stranger who poses
a threat? Does war automatically exempt us from showing hospitality? Does a
''war without end'' permanently suspend such values?

Americans have long had a troubled, contradictory relationship with immigrants.
We famously say that we are immigrants, indeed a ''land of immigrants,'' and
just as famously render them ''them.'' While Liberty opens her arms to the
tired, poor and huddled masses, we also greet the immigrant with ethnic slurs
and sweatshop wages, with savage and simplistic representations on our movie and
TV screens. We are immigrants who despise immigrants. To enact hospitality in
this context is a radical act: it automatically erases the border between us and
them. To open one's door to the stranger is to recognize that he no longer is
one.

The nativist reacts against the immigrant with prosaic notions of ''law and
order.'' Jose has broken the law by crossing the river without the proper
documents. Maria breaks the law by baby-sitting for money under the table. (The
nativist has little to say about the natives who also break the law by hiring
illegal aliens; he gains nothing politically by implicating himself in the
crime.) But immigration codes are very human laws, born of economic and
political realities -- laws that blind us from perceiving the migrants for who
they really are.

This notion of the foreigner as an economic mercenary has no relation whatsoever
to the way migrants regard themselves. Ask Mexicans why they cross the Rio
Grande and they will invariably say, ''to seek a better life.'' They do not mean
only material gain. Migrants travel through space and time, and are transformed
by their encounter with the newness of the landscape, beginning with language.
They are changed by their encounter with their other, with us.

Anyone who has grown up with more than one culture knows that to switch between
languages is more than a matter of grammar and accent; meaning itself shifts,
sometimes subtly, sometimes profoundly. To travel from one country to another,
one language to another, is a journey of both spirit and flesh. The migrants
sense this. In America, they are among our most fervently religious communities.
In the barrio storefront church, they meditate on and give meaning to their
passage -- their sacrifice, their yearning for the transcendent, their crossing
of the river.

And so now it is time again to face our contradictions head-on. The Bush
administration is pushing an immigration agenda that is questioned from both the
right and the left. The proposal offers documentation to immigrants who can
prove gainful employment in the form of ''contracts'' of up to three years.
President Bush on Monday repeated that the program would not be an amnesty (like
that granted several million illegal immigrants in 1986). Nevertheless,
conservatives argue that the program would reward criminals and pose a threat to
national security. Liberals complain about institutionalizing the exploitation
of foreign labor and the impact on native workers. Both sides reduce the
immigrant to caricature. And both still imagine -- in their rhetoric, at least
-- that the broken border between the United States and Mexico can be fixed.

But there was never enough of a border between us for it to have come undone.
Immigration laws have always been enforced selectively, largely according to the
needs of the labor economy. To a great extent, there is no functioning border,
but we insist on believing there is one: imagining a borderless world is a leap
into unfamiliar territory, a place where, in a sense, we would all be strangers.

Yet perhaps it is only in such a place where we might begin to offer genuine
hospitality. At the very moment one opens the door to the stranger, one also
crosses a border and sees not an immigrant, not an illegal alien, not a Mexican,
but a face -- a human face.

TONIGHT, in the final representation of the posada, Jose and Maria will wearily
walk from door to door seeking shelter in the barrios, even as thousands of
Joses and Marias arrive at the shore of the Rio Grande, the river they dream of
as Jordan. They look to the other side, imagining la vida mejor. The Border
Patrol stops some of them. Other migrants, in distress, find doors shut to them
when they seek help. But most find a bed to sleep in. With family, with friends,
even with strangers -- that is the story of immigration in America these days.
Perhaps we are a hospitable land, after all. How else could we have become this
''land of immigrants''?

In New Mexico, one of the most lyrical metaphors in the posada tradition is that
of the farolitos, votive candles that glow inside paper sacks weighed down by
sand. These light the path toward that place where Jose and Maria will finally
be recognized for who they are: pilgrims seeking shelter on the road, faces that
serve as mirrors to our own.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 26, 2004 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Governor Considers a Delay in Issuing Licenses

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; WORTH NOTING: UPDATE;
Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words


AS the state continued its investigations into driver's license fraud at the
Department of Motor Vehicles this month, Gov. M. Jodi Rell announced a plan to
change the way first-time drivers apply for licenses. Under the plan, people who
get licenses for the first time will be subject to extensive background checks,
including immigration and criminal history checks.

''These changes are overdue and we will be enacting them as quickly as
possible,'' Mrs. Rell said in a prepared statement. ''We cannot tolerate fraud
and abuse when it comes to driver's licenses. Our safety and security are simply
too important.

''These changes are consistent with a trend towards the driver's license
becoming the primary identity card nationwide,'' she added.

The announcement came as state investigators continued to look into allegations
of license fraud at multiple D.M.V. offices. Hundreds of licenses may have been
obtained illegally, state officials have said. Five people have been charged in
connection with the investigations, including one department employee.

Under the proposed regulations, which are subject to legislative action, people
who get their first licenses will be given a temporary license while their
documentation is verified. The applicant will have to wait up to 60 days to get
a permanent license. During that time, officials will verify the applicant's
Social Security number and check their immigration status and criminal
background. Similar proposals have been considered and dismissed before. State
Representative Demetrios Giannaros, a Democrat from Farmington, said he was
concerned that the new regulations will unfairly single out immigrants, making
it more difficult for them to obtain licenses.

''It's not simply preventing fraud,'' he said. ''It's creating a new system that
goes beyond the American system of justice.''

Immigration officials, not the D.M.V., should handle immigration issues, he
added.

The current problems at the department, he said, were caused by dishonest
employees. The governor's proposal does not address that issue, he said.

''The D.M.V. scandal had to do with criminal behavior by D.M.V. employees,'' he
said. ''They should have taken care of that problem and not harassed, in my
opinion, the whole population of immigrants.''

Bill Seymour, spokesman for the department, said the temporary license program
would not single out immigrants.

''This will apply evenly across the board to teenagers growing up in this
country, immigrants coming into this country, as well as people coming to
Connecticut from out of state,'' he said.

After the investigation began, Mrs. Rell also announced the creation of a new
document integrity unit at the D.M.V. and proposed legislation to toughen
penalties for driver's license and registration fraud.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles building on Route 7
in Norwalk. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 28, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refugees Rush to Canada to Beat an Asylum Deadline

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and ROBERT PEAR; Clifford Kraus reported from Welland
for this article, and Robert Pear from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: WELLAND, Ontario, Dec. 27


Jose Fabio Gutierrez and his wife had promising careers in Colombia working at
an airport before they began receiving threats from Marxist guerrillas.

The rebels wanted Mr. Gutierrez, a security guard who is now 31, to look the
other way as they hauled drugs and ammunition onto planes. They wanted his wife,
Amparo, a ticket agent who is now 29, to pay no heed as the guerrillas and their
sympathizers flew using false identification. When they both refused, they said,
the death threats followed with a ferocity that forced them to leave in 1999 for
New York, where they lived for nearly five years -- first on a tourist visa, and
then illegally.

Now, with their two babies, they are among several thousand immigrants who fear
persecution in their homelands and are rushing to the border to apply for
political asylum in Canada before a new refugee agreement with the United States
takes effect on Wednesday.

''We Colombians have nowhere else to go,'' Mr. Gutierrez said matter-of-factly
during an interview at a makeshift shelter in an old nursing home in this
manufacturing town near the border. ''If we are thrown out of Canada, we would
have to go back to Colombia, where we would be targets of the FARC,'' he added,
using the Spanish acronym of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the
most powerful rebel group.

Refugee shelters on both sides of the border are overflowing with young,
middle-class families from Colombia, Congo, Sudan and other strife-stricken
countries who have had the wherewithal to get here and hope to beat the
deadline. As many as 1,000 are in Buffalo, with Canadian immigration officers
processing their refugee claims as quickly as possible. Hundreds more are living
in shelters or being taken in by Canadian families along the border.

The sudden exodus to Canada was caused by the Safe Third Country Agreement
signed by Ottawa and Washington in December 2002. The treaty takes effect
Wednesday and is meant to prevent what officials in both countries call
''shopping for asylum.'' It requires refugees seeking asylum to do so in
whichever country they reach first.

Canada is generally considered the more liberal of the two countries in refugee
matters, but it is more difficult to reach than the United States because it
receives international flights from far fewer countries and there are more
American consular offices around the world to process claims.

Officials said the agreement would enhance the orderly handling of asylum claims
in two countries historically committed to the protection of refugees.

''It will reduce abuses of the refugee program here in Canada,'' said Robert
Gervais, a spokesman for Canada's Border Services Agency.

But advocates for refugees warn that the agreement will succeed only in
increasing illegal entries and human trafficking after the deadline on
Wednesday.

Advocates on both sides of the border expressed disappointment that Canada
pushed for the agreement. ''I feel that this brings back echoes of the worst in
Canada's history,'' said Janet Dench, executive director of the Canadian Council
for Refugees, referring to when Canada refused to open its doors to European
Jews fleeing Nazi oppression.

Beginning on Wednesday, immigrants who travel through the United States and seek
asylum in Canada, at a point of entry on the border, will generally be sent back
to the United States to apply for asylum.

The same rules will apply to immigrants trying to enter the United States from
Canada, but the flow in that direction is relatively small -- 200 asylum seekers
a year, compared with 11,000 to 12,000 a year who seek protection in Canada
after passing through the United States.

''Starting on Dec. 29, people who show up at a Canadian port of entry along the
land border with the United States cannot claim refugee status anymore and will
be refused admission to Canada,'' Mr. Gervais said. ''They can claim refugee
status in the United States if they wish.''

In nearby Fort Erie, Ontario, across from Buffalo, Canadian officials are
getting 55 claims a day for refugee status, up from the usual 20. Officials here
in Canada's Niagara region say 900 refugees have crossed the border so far this
month, up from the average of 400, while about 900 more are waiting to get in
from Buffalo. Those who have already reached the border by Wednesday will be
processed after that deadline.

But Patrick Giantonio, executive director of Vermont Refugee Assistance, a
private, nonprofit group that aids immigrants, disagreed. ''It will be more
difficult for asylum seekers to obtain protection,'' he said. ''It's more likely
they'll be bounced back into the hands of their persecutors.''

Mr. Giantonio added, ''There will be a significant rise in individuals entering
Canada illegally to make asylum claims that they have been able to make legally
at the border. And there will be new pressure on U.S. asylum officers and
immigration courts.''

About a third of the people who apply for asylum in Canada pass through the
United States first, according to officials in the two countries. Under the new
rules, aliens will be allowed to seek asylum in either country but not both.

The new rules will apply only at the border. Immigrants who reach the interior
of Canada will still be able to pursue asylum claims there.

Commenting on the accord, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees said: ''The agreement may have the unintended effect of encouraging
clandestine border crossings, which run counter to the interests of all parties,
including individuals in need of protection. Because the agreement applies only
to persons making claims at land ports of entry, those who manage to cross the
border -- likely in an irregular manner -- and make a claim inland will not be
affected.''

Immigration judges in the United States have expressed alarm that many
immigrants turned away by Canada will seek relief in the United States, adding
to an immense backlog of cases.

If given a choice, refugees often prefer to pursue asylum claims in Canada,
which they say is more likely to accept certain types of claims, particularly
those from women who fear domestic violence or persecution because of their sex.

Also, aliens seeking asylum in the United States generally must apply within one
year of their arrival. Canada does not have such a deadline.

In addition, as the Bush administration said in announcing the new policy last
month, ''Under Canadian law, asylum seekers are provided social benefits that
they are not eligible for in the United States, including access to medical
coverage, adult public education and public benefits.''

In a letter to United States immigration officials, three nonprofit groups --
Vermont Refugee Assistance, Freedom House in Detroit and Vive Inc. in Buffalo --
said, ''We find it tragically ironic that this agreement, which was initiated in
post-Sept. 11 haste as a quid pro quo to Canada in the context of increased
border security, has serious potential to increase the trafficking of humans.''

The agreement makes an exception for asylum seekers who already have family
members in the country where they want to go.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Fabio Gutierrez and his family, who are Colombian, drove to
Welland from New York to seek asylum. (Photo by Steve Payne for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 30, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: A New Archdiocese And A New Bishop

BYLINE: By Laurie Goodstein (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 85 words


With Hispanic immigrants swelling the ranks of Roman Catholics in Texas, Pope
John Paul II has elevated the Diocese of Galveston-Houston to the rank of
archdiocese, the state's second. Bishop Joseph A. Fiorenza, who has led the
Galveston-Houston Diocese since 1985, was named its first archbishop. The pope
also appointed Bishop Jose Horacio Gomez, above, an auxiliary bishop of Denver,
to be the new archbishop of San Antonio. He will replace Archbishop Patrick F.
Flores, who is retiring.   Laurie Goodstein (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Choices on Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 144 words



To the Editor:

As a pediatrician and a public health worker, I am more and more aware of the
impact of present law on children brought to this country illegally to receive
an education and better opportunity to develop and contribute to society, only
to find that further doors to work or higher education are closed to them.

Most of these young people have followed all the rules and have achieved
academic excellence only to find that after high school graduation, they must
live in the shadows of their communities, taking under-the-table jobs or worse.

What can ''family values'' mean when our immigration system puts children
without permanent status in such a state? I can accept sanctions against adults
who knowingly have violated immigration laws. These children, our children,
deserve a different approach.

Peter Simon, M.D.
Providence, R.I., Dec. 29, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

All News Is Local

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS.

E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; COPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words


FOR every disaster and killer wave in the world, there are ripples in New York.
So while it may be too soon to measure the economic and social impact of the
South Asian tsunami on the city, it is not too soon to predict that the city
will feel repercussions.

A century ago, New York neighborhoods were defined by the traditional ethnic
cocktail of Irish, Italians and Jews, and to some degree, those groups still
define the city. But their dominance is receding as fast as the floods on
beaches half a world away.

As the world's borders become increasingly porous, the city has absorbed people
from points on the map that many New Yorkers probably couldn't find on the first
try. These days, it's hard to imagine a major event on the planet that wouldn't
resonate with some hyphenated community in New York. It's been some time since
the city was defined by just a few major ethnic groups.

''Now it's a hundred,'' says Kenneth T. Jackson, editor of The Encyclopedia of
New York City. ''Just look at Queens; it's probably the most diverse single
place on earth. Every stop on the No. 7 train is a different country.

''I suspect Queens itself would probably reverberate with anything that happens
anywhere,'' he added. ''There is not, I think, an immigrant group anywhere on
earth that's not represented in New York. This was not true half a century
ago.''

Or 20 years ago. The waves that pounded the shores of Sri Lanka were felt on
Staten Island's north shore, home to much of the city's Sri Lankan population,
which has grown from a mere 440 souls in 1980 to more than 2,900 in 2000. Small
numbers, but still an increase of nearly 600 percent.

The waves were also felt among the 43,000 Bangladeshis concentrated in Astoria,
Woodside and Elmhurst; the 68,300 Indians in places like Richmond Hill; the
4,000 Burmese in Elmhurst, Bensonhurst and Midwood; the 4,200 Thais in Astoria
and Elmhurst; the 7,600 Malaysians centered in Flushing; and the 2,800
Indonesians found mainly across Queens.

Who even knew, until last week, that there was a Sri Lankan neighborhood in New
York? As Mike Wallace, director of the Gotham Center for New York City History,
jokes, the trick is to look for the restaurant. Sure enough, New Asha Sri Lanka
restaurant is on Victory Boulevard.

Another indicator of shifting ethnicities is the public school population. ''Sri
Lankans?'' one Stuyvesant sophomore said without a moment's hesitation. ''I have
two in my music class. They live on Staten Island.''

Some people would not be surprised to see South Asian enrollment rise in the
public schools after this disaster. ''When Hurricane Hugo struck in the
Caribbean, we had thousands of schoolchildren arriving in the middle of
October,'' said Mitchell Moss, professor of urban planning and policy at New
York University. ''The fall of governments, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes all
lead to new people coming into New York because this is where they have
families, this is where they have communities, and because New York is a
welcoming place.''

Over the years, disasters have shaped and reshaped the city. One could start,
Mr. Wallace says, with the 1790's and the Haitian revolution, then move on to
the 1840's and the Irish potato famine.

The list is as long as history, he adds: ''There were German political and
economic crises slow-rolling in the 1840's. The Russian Revolution sends White
Russians here in droves in the 20's. We get Chinese restaurants after the
Chinese revolution. We have German-Jewish refugees trying to pile in, in one of
the greatest transfers of intellectual firepower since, people would argue, the
fall of Constantinople. The U.S. invades the Dominican Republic in '65 and,
boom, you have Washington Heights. The Vietnam War sets people in motion toward
Chinatown.''

And the trend is accelerating. More than 40 percent of the city's foreign-born
population arrived after 1990, and diversification has been abetted by federal
immigration policy, which has shifted from granting visas mainly for family
unification to awarding them by lottery.

Joseph Salvo, population director for the City Planning Department, is willing
to describe New York as the nation's most diverse city, though he's cautious
about saying it's the world's most diverse. Toronto, Sao Paulo, Sydney, Rome,
Tokyo are rivals.

If the city doesn't see a surge of South Asians, historians say, it may be
because manmade disasters tend to drive immigration more directly than natural
disasters. War and genocide close off hope for the future. Tsunamis end as
quickly as they begin, and people try to rebuild. But no one should be surprised
if somewhere in Queens or Staten Island, a memorial to last week's disaster is
erected, a reminder of one more connection to a distant corner of the world.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 9, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Green-Card Hostage

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 1-09-05: THE
ETHICIST; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 565 words


When my good friend traveled to Nigeria last year, she ran into financial
difficulties, and I wired her $500. She promised to repay me as soon as she
returned to the U.S., but she still hasn't done so. The thing is, she used my
address to apply for her green card. It just arrived. Is it ethical for me to
hold onto it until she pays me back?   Anonymous, Bronx

Clearly your friend must repay the loan, but having her deported for failing to
do so, the implicit threat here, is a bit harsh. And so, tempting as it is to
hold her documents hostage, you should not. Her bad conduct does not justify
your own.

It would be different if you had some fungible objects of your friend's -- her
books, her CD's, her diamond-studded anything. To treat these things as ad hoc
collateral would be a proportional response to her deadbeat behavior; flirting
with immigration officials would not.

There is also a practical drawback to your bare-knuckles plan: your friend could
simply apply for a replacement card.

A friend of my son claims that kids from other neighborhoods ride to our town on
old junk bikes and swap them for the nicer bikes he and his friends leave on the
edge of the field where they're playing ball. This happened to the friend's
brother recently. May he keep the beat-up bike the thief abandoned?   Margaret
Shouvlin, Old Greenwich, Conn.

Your son's friend must make an effort to determine if the left-behind bike was
itself stolen -- maybe a quick phone call to the police. If it was, he can't
keep it. Similarly, if the bicycle pirate left behind any other stolen property
-- Edvard Munch's ''Scream,'' perhaps? Isn't that still missing from Oslo? --
the friend can't keep that either. But if the beater bike is not known to be
stolen, then it's abandoned property, and he has as much right to it as anyone.
One other thought: there's a bicycle accessory your son and his feckless cronies
might want to look into. It's called a lock.

Since accepting early retirement from a university, I've had my medical benefits
cut and my premiums raised. More recently, the school stopped contributing to my
life-insurance payments, and I fear that remaining benefits like medical
insurance are at risk also. Aren't my former employer's actions a violation of
contract, i.e., the early-retirement deal?   Anonymous, Tucson

Without perusing the contract under which you retired, a task for a lawyer, I'd
bet that it allows the university to do what you describe. But while the
university may have acted honestly, that does not mean it acted honorably, a
juxtaposition that, sadly, is not unknown in labor relations. ''There is so much
that employment law allows that is perfectly legal but utterly unfair and
unethical,'' notes Judith Conti, an attorney specializing in workplace issues.

Retirees necessarily make financial plans based on their retirement packages.
For a former employer to slash benefits peremptorily is to ambush that retiree
who, short of radical advances in biotechnology or the return of a triumphant
Ponce de Leon, cannot suddenly become a robust youth and return to work.

Unexpected circumstances might compel an employer to reduce benefits, but then
we're describing a less-than-competent employer. And if the university did
indeed anticipate the eventual necessity -- or the desirability -- of cutting
benefits, we've moved from inept to unethical, from fool to knave.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 10, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Name That Decade (and Try to Smile)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 231 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Queasy Feeling About a Decade With No Name,'' by Clyde Haberman (NYC
column, Jan. 4):

Has a nameless dread replaced America's famous optimism? For all the talk about
two Americas, to an immigrant (from Ireland) like me, red and blue America seems
enchanted by a shared vision of impending doom.

For the reds, the catastrophes will be the product of divine providence;
different religions offer differing story lines, all of them inevitable, none of
them pleasant.

For the blues, the catastrophes will be the product of the policies, foreign and
domestic, of the reds, whose ascent to power carries the aura of predestination.

In times like these, optimism feels insane!

Optimism has never been ''cool'' -- there is something silly, naive, goofy,
irrational in the persistence of optimism. Hope threatens: disillusion is
inevitable. Instead of ''Give me your tired,'' should the inscription on the
Statue of Liberty now read ''Abandon hope all ye who enter here''?

Calm down, America; the sound you hear is the laughter of your immigrants, whose
relentless optimism has kept you going for centuries now. Mindful of the danger
of self-fulfilling prophecies, perhaps we might recall that we have nothing to
fear but fear itself.

This decade will be named in retrospect. How it will be named is in our hands,
today.

Angela M. Hegarty
Central Islip, N.Y., Jan. 4, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Laurie Rosenwald)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2005 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Generations Learn English Together

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Mom's First Words; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words


Outside the warm, well-lighted room where 17 children and mothers from around
the globe met, world events often overwhelmed understanding. Wars raged;
elections were won and lost; waves swept thousands of lives away.

But sometimes the big picture obscures small advances that matter intensely even
when they do not make headlines -- like what was happening inside a basement
room in the Flushing branch of the Queens Public Library. In a place where
intimate exchanges are possible, a group of 3-year-olds born in New York and
mothers from Afghanistan, Mexico, Ecuador, Malaysia, Iran, China, Singapore and
Vietnam were learning to read English together.

Last fall, the women had begged permission to join the new free program,
designed to help immigrant mothers support their children's literacy. Word of
the program spread quickly through the library's adult English classes and its
periodicals section, stocked with 250 international newspapers, in languages
from Arabic to Vietnamese. Mothers recruited other mothers in multilingual
restroom lines where a toddler's squirms needed no translation.

''I went to the ladies' room, and when I came out, they were all waiting for
me,'' the teacher, Heather Brady, 28, recalled, beaming at the women and
children clustered on the alphabet rug.

Guiselle Espinoza, her library assistant, chimed in, ''They are pushy, the
mothers in this branch.''

Some of these Queens moms are ''Desperate Housewives'' of a different stripe.
Behind their broken English and the isolation of ethnic enclaves, many are
educated, middle-class mothers who had to compromise their own ambitions, and
are all the more eager to help their children excel.

Nafisa Zamen, Shokria's mother, said she had taught school in Afghanistan before
an arranged marriage to an Afghani-American truck driver in New York seven years
ago. Jie Yu, a musician and composer, used to write music for television in
Beijing. Now she gives piano lessons to children in the family's Queens
apartment while her husband works at the United Nations.

''Another language to write!'' Ms. Yu exclaimed with a flourish of the hand that
mimed her fluency in Chinese and musical notation. Her son Sheng, 18 months, was
well below the 3-year-old age limit for the class, she acknowledged, but she
could not wait. ''I want to work,'' she said haltingly. ''I want to do -- many
things.''

For others, the library class seemed to represent a chance at a kind of learning
that they had never had before. Aurora Amasta, from Mexico, explained in Spanish
that she was glad to bring her niece, Micky, to the sessions before her night
job in a garment factory when the girl's mother, a waitress and a single mother,
was too exhausted to come herself. Elizabeth and Christy were accompanied by
their Vietnamese grandmother, Anna Thai, who could be seen after class studying
the printed lyrics of ''Old MacDonald Had a Farm,'' trying to match syllables to
the symbols on the page.

In one of the first sessions last October, when the teacher passed around a
picture book, ''Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?'' some children seemed
lost. Randy grew so shy when the teacher asked him to point out the brown bear
that he hid his face in his Mexican mother's lap. Yousef scowled and hit at his
mother, Mina Brakihanrad, a 23-year-old Iranian who ducked her kerchiefed head.
Others, mainly little girls, supplied gleeful commentary in Vietnamese, Chinese
and Malay as they patted pictures of the bear, the horse, the duck and
everything in between.

The teacher was unruffled. In her calm and graceful way, she turned the book
into a question-and-response game that challenged the grown-ups to prompt their
children in English and to learn one another's names. Later she had them dancing
to a jazzy version of ''Old MacDonald,'' cluck-clucking and quack-quacking away.
Finally she used the picture book, a classic by Eric Carle, as inspiration for
artwork by each mother-child pair.

''Whose is this?'' the teacher would ask, praising the colors in the mix of
maternal crayon sketch and childish scribble, calling for raised hands and then
applause. ''What did you draw?''

Softly or boldly, the answers tumbled out: Giraffe. Cat. Butterfly. And even,
from Yanni Sotsky, 50, of Indonesia, the exuberant explanation that her
3-year-old New Yorker, Leelah, had put lipstick on her fish.

By December, parents and children alike were blooming. In music games, they all
became elephants, monkeys and camels. They laughed over books that told of a
mouse who wanted a cookie and an aardvark who wanted a library card. They drew
and described pictures of their own homes and families, little windows into
different ways of life.

A prayer rug and a vase of flowers dominated the picture Shokria's mother made;
a church and a supermarket loomed large for Randy's mother. Winston's mother,
trained as a beautician in Singapore and married to a software engineer, drew a
picture of herself making American pancakes for her family.

''Immigrant parents, very often they don't speak or read English even if they
were very well educated in their own country,'' said Silvana Vasconcelos , a
Brazilian who directs family literacy programs at the library, and who designed
the curriculum supported by public money and private donations. ''Parents learn
the best when they learn with their children. It gives them more dignity, it
gives them more control and more incentive to stay with it. And reading to your
child is the single most important thing a parent can do for their child's
success in school.''

Ms. Espinoza, the 22-year-old assistant teacher, who arrived from Peru at age 7,
knows the power of such library lessons.

''I started at 15, working as a page in the Astoria library for two years,'' she
recalled. ''I was promoted to a latchkey monitor in the after-school program, 1
to 6 p.m.-- arts and crafts, helping with homework, the reading program.''

''My mom is a children's librarian,'' she added. ''Like me, she started at the
bottom and worked her way up.''

Later the group reviewed their new grasp of library language, words like author,
title, borrow and return. Winston's mother, Jian Min, volunteered another one:
renew.

''You not finish the book, you return it, you can borrow again!'' she crowed.

They had helped the children make ''library cards'' with paper and crayons,
inscribed with their names and ''Queens Library.'' Then they lined up and took
turns pretending to be librarians and book borrowers. The children seemed
mesmerized as their mothers repeated magic phrases, like ''May I help you?'' and
''This is my library card.'' Even shy Randy stamped the due date slip with
relish.

Nearly all the families have signed up for a second eight-week session, which
will start later this month. In a warm, well-lighted place, Ms. Vasconcelos sees
a lesson sprouting.

''The love of learning comes from doing it together,'' she said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2005



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about a program at the Queens Public Library
that teaches immigrant mothers and their young children how to read English
referred incompletely to the authorship of ''Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You
See?,'' a picture book used in the classes. It was written by Bill Martin Jr.;
Eric Carle was the illustrator.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Sereen Chua, left, reading with Theresa, and Mina Brakihanrad
with Yousef. Below, Heather Brady with Elizabeth Tu. (Photographs by Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Shobanan Saravanamuthy, 3, explores the alphabet rug that is a feature of the
Flushing library's classroom, where immigrant mothers and their children learn
English together and have fun along the way. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New
York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 13, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Explanation Not Needed In Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By Steve Barnes (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 148 words


The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit overturned a district
judge's order that the Justice Department explain whether race was a factor in
its decision to seek the death penalty in a 2003 alien-smuggling case. The
judge, Vanessa D. Williams of Federal District Court in Houston, had said that
unless prosecutors complied with her order, she would inform jurors of the
government's refusal and allow them to weigh it in the penalty phase of the
trial should they convict the defendant, Tyrone M. Williams. The appeals delayed
the trial of Mr. Williams, 33, a driver accused of abandoning a truck in which
more than 70 illegal immigrants were locked. Nineteen of them died of heat
exhaustion. Mr. Williams, who is black, is the only one of 14 defendants in the
incident, which occurred at Victoria, who was charged with an offense punishable
by death.   Steve Barnes (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 13, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 55 words


An article yesterday about a program at the Queens Public Library that teaches
immigrant mothers and their young children how to read English referred
incompletely to the authorship of ''Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?,''
a picture book used in the classes. It was written by Bill Martin Jr.; Eric
Carle was the illustrator.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 13, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Rejects Mariel Cubans' Detention

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12


The Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday that federal law prohibits the open-ended
detention of Cubans who entered the United States during the Mariel boatlift in
1980 and who, despite crimes later committed in the United States, cannot be
deported because the Cuban government refuses to take them back.

Voting 7 to 2, the court applied to the deportable group of Mariel Cubans the
same rights it found in federal law in a decision four years ago that barred the
indefinite detention of a stateless immigrant, lawfully admitted to the United
States, whose criminal record made him deportable but who had no place to go.

The Bush administration had argued that the decision in the earlier case did not
apply to the Mariel group because, unlike the immigrant, Kestutis Zadvydas,
admitted as a refugee from post-World War II Europe, the Cubans had never been
granted formal admission to the United States. Instead, they received a
humanitarian parole, which the administration said did not entitle them to the
same protection when they violated the country's hospitality by committing
crimes.

But writing for the majority on Wednesday, Justice Antonin Scalia said that
because the immigration statute itself made no such distinction, the court could
not create one.

In Zadvydas v. Davis, the court held that because detention longer than six
months could raise serious constitutional problems, the statute should be
interpreted to avoid those problems by limiting detention of a deportable alien
who did not pose a risk to the community. Justice Scalia said the fact that
immigrants who had never been formally admitted into the country might have a
more tenuous constitutional claim did not change the analysis.

Addressing the government's argument, Justice Scalia said: ''If we were, as the
government seems to believe, free to 'interpret' statutes as becoming
inoperative when they 'approach constitutional limits,' we would be able to
spare ourselves the necessity of ever finding a statute unconstitutional as
applied.''

The decision, Clark v. Martinez. No. 03-878, applied to two cases of Cubans
found deportable. One, Sergio Suarez Martinez, convicted of burglary, theft and
assault, was taken into custody by immigration officials and ordered removed
from the country in January 2001. Eighteen months later, he filed a habeas
corpus petition based on the Zadvydas decision, which was granted by a federal
district court in Oregon in a decision that the United States Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, affirmed. Another federal appeals
court, in Atlanta, reached the opposite conclusion in denying release to Daniel
Benitez, who had filed a habeas corpus petition six months after he was detained
and ordered deported for convictions for assault and gun possession.

Some 125,000 Cubans entered the country during the Mariel incident. The ruling
on Wednesday will apply to as many as 1,000 who have been convicted of crimes
and are being held without a realistic prospect of repatriation.

The administration had also argued that a decision in the Cubans' favor would
raise national security concerns by making it more difficult to control the
country's borders. ''If that is so, Congress can attend to it,'' Justice Scalia
said in his opinion.

The two dissenters were Justice Clarence Thomas and Chief Justice William H.
Rehnquist, who said that the majority had mischaracterized the Zadvydas decision
as applying to the Mariel group. Justice Thomas, in a part of his dissenting
opinion that the chief justice did not join, said the Zadvydas decision should
be overruled.

The case had drawn considerable attention from international and human rights
groups. Deborah Pearlstein of the group Human Rights First, which had filed a
brief, praised the court for rejecting ''one of the farther reaching assertions
of administrative power by the executive branch.''

In another immigration decision on Wednesday, the court accepted the
administration's argument that the absence of a functioning central government
in Somalia did not prevent the deportation of Somalis to their home country.

A Somali man, Kayse G. Jama, who entered the United States as a 17-year-old
refugee in 1996 and was later convicted of assault, argued that federal law
required the consent of the receiving country before deportation. He lost his
case in the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis,
while the Ninth Circuit in a separate case had issued an injunction barring
further deportations to Somalia.

The Supreme Court affirmed the Eighth Circuit's ruling by a 5-to-4 vote. Justice
Scalia wrote the majority opinion in Jama v. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, No. 03-674. Justice David H. Souter wrote a dissenting opinion,
joined by Justices John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer.

The dispute on the court was over statutory interpretation. The question was
whether Congress, in a complex set of provisions dealing with deportation, meant
to require the receiving country's consent as a condition of deportation for
people in Mr. Jama's particular position. Some sections of the law include such
a provision, and the majority said that the court should not find a ''structural
inference'' that the requirement also applied to Mr. Jama's category.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Long Voyage From Mariel Ends

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO.

Mirta Ojito, who arrived from Cuba in the Mariel boatlift, is the author of
''Finding Manana: a Memoir of a Cuban Exodus,'' to be published in April by the
Penguin Press.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 971 words


AT dawn on May 11, 1980, the 20th day of the Mariel boatlift, a boat called
America reached Key West, carrying on her three decks more than 700 Cuban
refugees, about half of them looking suspiciously subdued and weary. Some,
toothless and tattooed, wore crisp-looking khaki clothes bearing creases typical
of clothing that has been folded and stored too long. They didn't cheer or cry
and kept their eyes on the ground. To anyone paying attention it was obvious
that these men had been in jail or in an asylum.

Others like them had arrived earlier in the boatlift and gone unnoticed by most
Americans, though not by the authorities. But the America's arrival was captured
on film and videotape by journalists alerted by a front-page article that day in
The New York Times, reporting its departure from Mariel under a headline that
said ''retarded people and criminals'' were being included in the boatlift.
Almost immediately, the way Americans perceived the boatlift darkened, casting a
pall on the future of the more than 125,000 Cubans -- most of them law-abiding
-- who, by September of that year, would arrive in the United States.

For 25 years now, the Marielitos, as Mariel refugees were called, have quietly
chipped away at the stereotype they were saddled with. According to American
immigration statistics, more than 90 percent of them worked hard, paid taxes and
stayed out of trouble, becoming like any other Cuban exile, except for one legal
distinction.

The distinction was this: Up until last week, any Mariel refugee who had not
become an American citizen or legal resident could be detained indefinitely
after completing a jail term for even the smallest crime. The lack of normal
relations with Cuba makes it impossible for them to be sent back, unless they
were on a 1984 list that allowed for the deportation of 2,700 (most of whom have
been deported). That deceptively small detail left many Mariel Cubans feeling
stigmatized and especially vulnerable -- no longer in Cuba but not fully
accepted in the United States, either. In the eyes of the law, in fact,
Marielitos had technically never reached American shores -- they had simply been
saved from the sea.

Last week the Supreme Court changed that, ruling that open-ended detention of
Mariel Cubans was illegal. This may seem like the mere correction of an
anachronism, affecting only the 750 people still in detention, but for Mariel
Cubans it was a hugely important and emotional event: The highest court of the
land they have chosen as their own has validated the status not only of those
convicted of crimes but of all Cubans who in 1980 set sail for the United
States.

That such a legal distinction could survive so long for a class of people
defined only by the name of the port from which they sailed is a testament to
the enduring power of a negative stereotype.

After May 11, 1980, editorial pages of The Miami Herald and other newspapers
began to question the wisdom of uncontrolled immigration. It wasn't just a
reaction to the hundreds of pictures taken that day. May 11 also broke all
previous records for daily arrivals: 4,588 refugees aboard 58 boats. By
nightfall, the total number of refugees that had been clocked in Key West since
April 21, when the first boat arrived, had reached 37,000, a number equal to 10
percent of Miami's total population at the time.

Thus, the narrative of Mariel shifted from one in which thousands of Cubans were
fleeing Communism in pursuit of freedom to one in which, in the words of the New
York Times columnist James Reston, Fidel Castro was ''exporting his failures.''

Before the year was out, President Jimmy Carter had lost his bid for
re-election; so had Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, in part because many of the
refugees had ended up in his state, at Fort Chaffee. And the Mariel Cubans soon
realized they were unwanted. Then, in 1983, came ''Scarface,'' starring Al
Pacino as the violent, cocaine-crazed Mariel refugee, Tony Montana. To this day,
some Mariel Cubans don't admit that they left Cuba in 1980.

There is no doubt that Castro sent criminals in the boatlift. He did it, by most
accounts, for three reasons: to get rid of malcontents and misfits; to try to
show that those who wanted to abandon his revolution were the scum of society,
not hardworking revolutionaries; and to punish the United States, as part of his
longstanding antagonism toward Washington.

Statistics released by the Immigration and Naturalization Service at the time
revealed that 600 people with serious mental problems and 1,200 who were
suspected of committing serious crimes in Cuba were among the 125,000 Cubans who
arrived in the boatlift. But, by 1987, 3,800 Mariel Cubans were serving
sentences for crimes committed in the United States, and another 3,800 were in
indefinite detention after completing sentences.

About 2,300 of those ended up in federal prisons in Oakdale, La., and Atlanta.
In 1987, when the government announced that it was ready to resume the
deportation of those included in the 1984 list, the detainees took over the
prisons and rioted for days, ceasing only when the Justice Department agreed to
establish review panels to examine each case and release those who were fit to
rejoin society.

Though flawed, the panels freed thousands of people who otherwise would have
languished in jail for life, including a woman named Agrispina Manzo Guevara,
who was in detention for 11 years but had never been convicted of a crime in the
United States; instead, her unruly behavior in detention camps and later in jail
led her to be deemed a danger to society.

For Marielitos seeking an equal place among America's immigrants, the Supreme
Court decision last week ends the final leg of a long journey. Twenty-five years
after these Cubans left Mariel, they may have finally reached the shore.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On April 23, 1980, early in the Mariel boatlift, 200 refugees
docked at Key West on the shrimp boat Big Babe. (Photo by United Press
International)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2005 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Rage Explodes at Egyptian Family's Funeral

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT; Julia Preston, John Holl and Jason George contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, Jan. 17


The funeral for an Egyptian immigrant family found slain in their home here
erupted into a scene of chaos and roiling emotion on Monday, with some mourners
jumping on top of cars, shoving each other and threatening to beat a Muslim
cleric who was escorted to safety by the police.

The source of the disruption at the Coptic Christian service appeared to be the
presence of Muslims, who said they had come to pay their respects.

In the days since the victims, Hossam Armanious, 46; his wife, Amal Garas, 36;
and their daughters, Sylvia, 15, and Monica, 8, were found stabbed to death in
their home early on Friday, speculation that the slayings were a hate crime has
led to loud recriminations by Christian Egyptians, expressed in news interviews
and at a demonstration here on Sunday.

Muslims and Christians have a long and violent history in Egypt, where Muslims
are the majority, but relations between the groups had never soured locally,
several Muslim and Coptic Christian leaders said. Although the case brought new
tension to the Egyptian community, the Jersey City police have refused to say
whether they believe the slayings were the result of religious hatred.

''Those are killers!'' yelled one man as Sheik Tarek Yousof Saleh, a Muslim
cleric from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, left the funeral site, escorted by police
officers. ''We don't want them in the church!''

In a telephone interview yesterday afternoon, Sheik Saleh said he never intended
to cause trouble and regretted attending the funeral. ''I didn't come to hurt
anyone, I came to support them,'' said Sheikh Saleh, 42, the imam of the Oulel
Albab Mosque on Bay Ridge Avenue, sounding shaken. ''I am sorry.''

The uproar outside the community center of St. George and St. Shenouda Coptic
Orthodox Church, on Bergen Avenue, began when some of the hundreds of mourners
present saw a Coptic bishop hug the sheik before the sheik left in a police car,
several members of the church said. According to the Rev. Antonious Tanious and
several other Coptic Christians, two men began screaming at Bishop David, who
presides over the Coptic churches in the Northeast, asking him how he could let
a Muslim attend the service.

Panicked police officers whisked the two men and some others into a nearby
garage and closed the metal door just as a swell of people, some screaming and
waving wooden crosses, pressed up against the door.

''A metal gate on the garage was pulled down to prevent the groups from
attacking each other,'' said Capt. John Tooke of the Jersey City Police
Department. ''It was a very chaotic and emotional scene. We had people that were
rowdy, disruptive and really out of control.''

After 15 minutes, most of the group in the garage was allowed to leave. The two
men were detained but not charged, Captain Tooke said. Another man walked around
dazed afterward, his hand bleeding. ''We tell the Muslim people, 'Don't come
here.' We don't like them and they come,'' said Nadia Sourrial, a church member,
echoing a sentiment expressed by numerous other people who were interviewed.
''They like to show us we're dead.''

In the interview yesterday, Sheik Saleh said two editors of local
Arabic-language newspapers called him on Sunday evening and advised him to go to
the funeral in a show of solidarity between Muslims and Christians, he said.

Sheik Saleh, who is Egyptian, went with one of the editors, Ahmed Saleh Maharem,
who is also a columnist. Mr. Maharem said at least 10 other Muslims were
present, and some were welcomed. But the Sheik, who wore a white abayya, or head
covering, was most noticeably Muslim.

Dozens of other Muslims, many of them community leaders, canceled plans to
attend the funeral after seeing television reports about the mounting friction,
said Debbie Almontaser, a Muslim community activist in Brooklyn. The New Jersey
office of the Council on American-Islamic Relations released a statement Monday
saying that the organization had called on law enforcement authorities to do
everything in their power to apprehend those responsible for the murders.

Investigators, who are working with the F.B.I., continued to comb the family's
house on Oakland Avenue over the weekend in search of clues. Theft appeared to
be at least part of the motive: investigators said that only a penny remained in
the house after the slayings and that Mr. Armanious's pockets and wallet had
been emptied.

The police would not confirm reports by Coptic Christians that Mr. Armanious had
engaged in fiery debates about Christianity and Islam in an Internet chat room,
which fueled rumors that the murders were a hate crime.

A Justice Department official did confirm a report, on WABC-TV, that a relative
of the slain family was a translator for the government in the case of Lynne F.
Stewart, the lawyer accused of aiding terrorists. The official said the
translator was a distant relative who had not seen the family in several years,
adding, ''We believe there is no connection between this person and the
slaying.''

The friction started before the funeral yesterday morning as hundreds of people
gathered for a procession in Journal Square in downtown Jersey City. One man
yelled, ''Who is going to be next?'' as pallbearers lifted the four bronze
coffins out of the hearses.

Several women began wailing and crying, beating their fists on the coffins and
slapping their own faces as the procession slowly began to move along Bergen
Avenue. About 20 clergymen in white robes crashed cymbals and led the group,
with Bishop David, in a melodious and haunting Coptic song, asking God for
mercy.

Shopkeepers, pedestrians and other passers-by stood stunned at the edge of the
six-lane avenue, watching intently as the four coffins moved past, each one
marked by a photograph of the victim inside. Even the pallbearers wept.

The procession ended after four blocks, as hundreds of people crowded into the
church's community center. The coffins were placed in a row at the front,
covered by floral wreaths. Relatives of the family rocked back and forth in
grief as the service began, with clergy members reading from the Bible and
friends remembering the slain family.

A Sunday school teacher read from several essays Sylvia had written, including:
''The only good thing I absolutely adore about Jersey is that my church is in
it. I love my church to death.''

As the service progressed, Sheik Saleh was standing on the sidewalk outside when
a police officer invited him in, he said, followed by a church member who led
him to the front, where the mayor of Jersey City, Jerramiah T. Healy, was ending
a speech.

Suddenly, several people cried, ''Out! Out!'' and the room erupted in loud
shouts. Ayman Garas, the brother of one of the victims, Amal Garas, yelled in
Arabic for everyone to stop, and Bishop David invited the sheik to sit with
several Coptic clergymen.

The crowd continued to yell until Bishop David called out: ''Everyone has to
show the teachings of Christ, the love. I would like everyone to sit down and be
in peace.''

At the end of the service, as Sheik Saleh walked out with several clergy members
and the police, one woman near the front door called out, ''Animals! Animals!''

Around the same time, Sheik Saleh said he heard threats of a beating: ''Bring a
stick to his head,'' he said he recalled people yelling. ''Beat him, take him
away.''

''I don't blame any one of them,'' he added. ''Emotionally they are not happy
right now.''

After the bodies were entombed in crypts at Rosedale Cemetery and Crematory in
Linden, the funeral party returned to Bergen Avenue to share a meal of chicken
and mashed potatoes. Bishop David, when asked what he thought of one of the men
who yelled at him after the funeral, said, ''People are angry. He's still our
child.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2005



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about the killing of four members of an
Egyptian immigrant family in their Jersey City home misidentified the religious
holiday that the family, members of the Coptic Orthodox Church, celebrated on
Jan. 7. It was the Eastern Orthodox Christmas -- not Little Christmas, also
known as the Feast of the Three Kings.

 The article and a related one in some copies on Sunday also included an
erroneous age from prosecutors for the family's eldest daughter, Sylvia. She was
15, not 16. And Saturday's article, as well as related articles on Monday and
Tuesday, included erroneous ages from prosecutors for the father, Hossam
Armanious, and the mother, Amal Garas. They were 47 and 37, not 46 and 36.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A police officer separated a man from those confronting him in
Jersey City at services for a family found stabbed to death.
The coffins bearing the slain family were carried past hundreds of mourners.
(Photographs by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 At top, a priest and others carried the coffin of the youngest member of the
slain family, Monica Armanious, 8, to the church. After the funeral, sorrow was
evident among the people gathered in the street. (Photographs by Marko Georgiev
for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Screen, Tackling Europe's New Reality

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 17


A stormy love story set among Turkish immigrants in Hamburg, Fatih Akin's new
movie, ''Head-On,'' has been collecting prizes since its release last year. Yet
its true importance may lie elsewhere. As the first ethnic film to be both a
box-office and critical success in Germany, it signals new acceptance of
multiculturalism. On screen, at least, Germans are now ready to meet immigrants
they have long walked past on the street.

Movies have played this role before: in Britain, Stephen Frears's ''My Beautiful
Laundrette'' in 1986; in France, Mathieu Kassovitz's ''Hate'' in 1995; and even
in the Netherlands, where tensions over immigration are running high. Last year,
the most popular Dutch movie was ''Shouf Shouf Habibi!,'' a low-budget comedy
about first- and second-generation Moroccan immigrants.

Other Turkish-German movies have been made, but ''Head-On'' is the first to
reach mainstream audiences in Germany. Seen by 750,000 people last year, it was
awarded the top prize at the 2004 Berlin International Film Festival; it
collected five Lolas, Germany's Oscar equivalent; and last month it was named
European film of the year. It opens in New York and Los Angeles on Friday.

''I really can't explain its success,'' said Mr. Akin, 31, who was born in
Hamburg of Turkish immigrant parents. ''I wanted to tell a rough and crazy love
story between borderline people, and all my masters told me to make films about
stuff I know. So I settled on this love story in my personal world. If I made a
comedy or a film noir, it would still be set in my neighborhood.''

And yet, by entering Turkish households in Germany and exploring the dreams and
frustrations of Turkish-German youths, ''Head-On'' also focuses on the crux of
the European immigration problem: that the failure to integrate first-generation
immigrants has turned their European-born children into outsiders. Little wonder
that immigrant movies invariably include generational clashes and angry
outbursts against society.

In ''Head-On,'' it is Sibel (Sibel Kekilli), a pretty young Turkish-German, who
is trying to escape her traditional Muslim family, even to the point of faking a
suicide attempt. Sent to a psychiatric hospital for tests, she concludes that
marriage is the easiest way out. With this in mind, she sets her eye on another
patient, Cahit (Birol Unel), a Turkish-German alcoholic who really did try to
kill himself.

But Sibel has no intention of tying herself down. Ignoring Cahit's unsuitability
as a spouse, she proposes a bizarre arrangement, which he reluctantly accepts:
once marriage has freed her from parental control, they will not live as a
married couple. So while Cahit tries to hide his marriage from a long-suffering
girlfriend, Sibel goes around bedding the young men she fancies. By the time
Cahit and Sibel fall for each other, even true love cannot save them.

Off-screen, there were also unexpected twists to the story. Ms. Kekilli, 25, who
was spotted by a casting agent in a department store in Cologne, seemed well
suited to play Sibel because she too had run away from her immigrant parents and
because she was willing to appear naked on screen. After ''Head-On'' was
released, however, German tabloids disclosed that she had previously acted in
pornographic films, and a huge media storm erupted.

''I knew about this from the beginning because she told me, but she was the best
actress for the part,'' Mr. Akin said in a telephone interview from Hamburg.
''We really tried to protect her because her parents didn't know. When it came
out, she got into enormous trouble. Her parents read about it in the newspapers.
Her sister said they were burning her photos. It was like a scene in the movie,
witchcraft stuff.''

Even Mr. Akin's life is not too distant from the world he portrays in his movie.
While he has made a career in German cinema -- ''Head-On'' is his fifth feature
film -- and is more fluent in German than in Turkish, his Turkish roots still
pull at him. ''A couple of years ago,'' he recalled, ''I married a girl of
German-Mexican background and, for sure, my parents were like: 'Ah, don't you
want to have a Muslim girl, a Turkish girl? It will be easier.'''

Far from fleeing his biculturalism, though, he sees his next movie, a
documentary profile of Istanbul called ''Crossing the Bridge,'' as something of
a metaphor for his life. ''It's funny to identify yourself with a city,'' he
said, ''but Istanbul is half in Europe and half in Asia, connected by a bridge,
and I am this mixed kid too, half Germany, half Turkey.''

Not all directors of immigrant movies come from ethnic minorities. With ''My
Beautiful Laundrette,'' Mr. Frears, who is British, directed a screenplay by
Hanif Kureishi, a London-born writer of Pakistani and British parentage. Mr.
Kassovitz, whose father is a Hungarian-born Jew, wrote and directed ''Hate,''
the story of three suburban-Paris toughs -- an African, an Arab and a Jew -- who
set out to avenge a friend who died at the hands of French police.

What writers and directors of this genre have in common, though, is the
recognition that immigrants and refugees often live perilous, dramatic lives as
they try to adjust to European societies that are themselves changing in
unpredictable ways. Put simply, immigration provides rich material for the
screen.

In France, the focus has been on the large North African population. In
''Bye-Bye'' (1995), Karim Dridi follows two French-Arab boys through Marseille's
underworld. The poor tenements outside Paris are a typical setting for Merzak
Allouache's ''Salut Cousin!'' (1996), about two Algerian boys chasing dreams.
Many dramas involve daughters of immigrants. In Coline Serreau's ''Chaos''
(2001), Malika flees an arranged marriage, but is then kidnapped and forced into
prostitution.

British movies have dwelled on South Asian immigrants, at times with humor.
Gurinder Chadha's comedy ''Bhaji on the Beach'' (1993) portrays the lives of
Indian women in Britain, while her 2002 movie, ''Bend It Like Beckham,'' set in
that same world, is a feel-good story about a girls' soccer team. In contrast,
Udayan Prasad's ''My Son the Fanatic'' is darker. From a screenplay by Mr.
Kureishi and made four years before 9/11, it explores Islamic fundamentalism in
a Pakistani community in Britain.

Stories of refugees are also being told. In ''Beautiful People'' (1999), Jasmin
Dizdar views the Bosnian war through the eyes of both refugees and Britons.
Michael Winterbottom's ''In This World'' (2002) tracks two young Afghans trying
to reach Britain. Mr. Frears's 2002 film, ''Dirty Pretty Things,'' is set among
exploited illegal immigrants in London. And Lukas Moodysson's ''Lilya 4-Ever''
(2002) tells the harrowing, if familiar, story of Eastern European girls who end
up as prostitutes in the West.

But the most surprising recent hit is ''Shouf Shouf Habibi!'' (''Hush Hush
Baby!''), surprising because a Dutch director, Albert ter Heerdt, has made a
comedy about Moroccan-Dutch youths at a time of mounting hostility toward Muslim
immigration in the Netherlands. What made it possible was that the idea came
from a young Moroccan-Dutch actor, Mimoun Oaissa, who not only introduced Mr.
ter Heerdt to Moroccan family life but also played the lead role in the movie.

At times, the plot seems as improvised as the lives of Abdullah (Mr. Oaissa) and
his three cronies, who try to rob a bank, dream of becoming bad guys in
post-9/11 Hollywood movies, drink beer in a pool hall and generally fail in
whatever they do. At the same time, Abdullah's parents try to marry off their
rebellious daughter and struggle with the idiosyncrasies of Dutch life. But Mr.
ter Heerdt also pokes fun at the Dutch.

''All this irony felt like relief,'' he said by telephone from Amsterdam.
''There was not only tension. It was about problems, but also the irony of it
all. It really worked as relief. All the actors had a good laugh making it.''

Then, in November, a Dutchman of Moroccan parentage murdered a filmmaker, Theo
van Gogh, in apparent reprisal for ''Submission,'' a documentary Mr. van Gogh
had made about the mistreatment of Muslim women. And once again relations were
badly strained between Muslim immigrants and the Dutch.

Mr. ter Heerdt, abruptly reminded that movies cannot reinvent reality, postponed
plans for a sequel to ''Shouf Shouf Habibi!'' ''Before I can go on in a funny
way,'' he said, ''I first have to do another film dealing with the serious side
of the problem -- this time with many more Dutch characters in it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: To escape her traditional Muslim parents, Sibel (right)
arranges an unusual marriage with Cahit, in ''Head-On,'' Fatih Akin's film, set
in Hamburg. (Photo by Strand Releasing)(pg. E1)
 Two of the buddies in Albert ter Heerdt's ''Shouf Shouf Habibi!'' (Photo by
Jaap Vrenegoor)(pg. E7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Proficiency In English Decreases Over a Decade

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words


The number of New York adults who have a problem speaking English increased by
30 percent between 1990 and 2000, to more than 1.5 million throughout the city,
according to figures released by the city yesterday. That amounts to more than
one in four adult New Yorkers, and officials said more recent figures show no
sign of a decline.

With the supply of English classes for immigrants lagging far behind demand,
Joseph Salvo, the city's demographer, said the language problem is now affecting
the education of the next generation. More than half of all births in the city
are to foreign-born women.

Almost half of the 1.5 million people with English difficulties live in
households where no one speaks English proficiently, said Mr. Salvo, the
director of the population division of the Department of City Planning, citing
statistics culled from a new analysis of census and immigration information.
Another quarter of the group live in households where only a child is proficient
in the language.

The immigrant groups with the highest number of births -- Dominicans, Mexicans
and Chinese -- also have the highest rates of difficulty with English, ranging
from 70 to 76 percent, he added. Yet in the areas of Queens and Brooklyn where
those immigrants are most concentrated, English classes are especially scarce.

For generations of immigrants to New York, learning English has been the
passport to a better life, whether it turned a busboy into a waiter, bridged the
distance between an ethnic enclave and the Ivy League, or was just used to
persuade the landlord to turn on the heat.

''English literacy supports self-sufficiency, supports the ability to get a
raise, to get a promotion, and it fosters children's academic success,'' said
Jeanne B. Mullgrav, commissioner of the city Department of Youth and Community
Development, citing research that underscores the importance of parental
involvement. ''To the extent that parents improve their skills, children
succeed.''

In the migrations before 1965, most newcomers spoke European languages. But what
is striking about the current generation of immigrants is the vast range of
tongues they use on the city's streets, adding difficulties in education,
business and the minutiae of daily life and making the need for English as a
common language all the more urgent.

''The earlier waves of Southern and Eastern Europeans that dominated immigration
at the turn of the 20th century spoke many languages,'' Mr. Salvo said. ''But
the level of language diversity today far surpasses anything we have seen in the
city's history.''

Of those who do not speak English very well, 51 percent speak Spanish at home,
13 percent speak Chinese, 8 percent Russian, 4 percent French, including Creole,
3 percent Korean, 3 percent Italian and 2 percent Polish, with other languages
accounting for 16 percent -- a range of 175 to 200 languages.

Mr. Salvo's statistics were the framework for a meeting aimed at creating a new
public-private alliance for teaching English to the city's newcomers through
family programs. The session, called an Immigrant Family Literacy Summit, was
convened by The New York Times Company Foundation, the city's Department of
Youth and Community Development and the Literacy Assistance Center, an umbrella
research group for many of the programs that teach English to immigrants.

Compared with the general population, census and city statistics show, adults
without proficiency in English have less education. Close to half have not
graduated from high school, compared to 27 percent of all New Yorkers 18 and
over. Many may not be literate in their own language, noted Mr. Salvo, and that
adds to the difficulty they may have in learning to read and write in English.

All but 6 percent are foreign born, he said, and those recorded as born in the
United States were nearly all born in Puerto Rico. At least 40 percent arrived
in the decade between 1990 and 2000, compared to 44 percent between 1965 and
1989, and only 10 percent before 1965. They are a little older than the city's
general population, because the foreign-born tend to be workers, not children.
But the lion's share -- 33 percent of those who have trouble speaking English --
are between 30 and 44, the same age distribution as in the city's adult
population of 5.9 million.

Some of Mr. Salvo's most striking figures relate to the high immigrant share of
the city's 121,000 births in 2000. The top three immigrant groups alone account
for one out of every six births, he said: 8,940 births to women from the
Dominican Republic, 6,410 births to women from Mexico and 5,680 to women from
China. In these same groups, 70 percent, 76 percent and 75 percent respectively
reported that they speak English less than ''very well,'' a response that
typically means real difficulty with the language, census studies show.

Andres Alonso, a chief of staff in the city's Education Department, reminded
participants in the literacy summit of studies showing the resilience of
immigrant children, who tend to outperform the native-born if they enter the
school system before the ninth grade. But recalling his own family's migration
from Cuba when he was 12, he spoke of the disadvantages immigrant parents have
in navigating bureaucracies in order to assist their children.

Currently, even locating a family literacy program is a challenge, Elyse B.
Rudolph, the executive director of the Literacy Assistance center, told the
group. The center counts 183 programs with about 45,000 seats that are offered
through a confusing mix of schools, libraries, churches, unions and
work-development sites, supported by fluctuating streams of city, state, federal
and private money.

Maps produced for the session showed a more fundamental problem: a mismatch
between program sites and the areas where immigrants who lack English
proficiency are most concentrated. Manhattan has 80 sites, while Queens, with
the world's most densely diverse immigrant neighborhoods, has only 14.

Another problem was raised by Digna Sanchez, president of Learning Leaders, a
nonprofit organization that recruits and trains volunteers in the public
schools. Many of the city's new immigrant parents are here illegally, she said,
and while city agencies try to maintain an environment of ''don't ask, don't
tell,'' sources of funds increasingly demand Social Security numbers to track
how many students are being served.

''No matter how you look at it,'' said Richard Fish, an adviser at the
Department of Youth and Community Development, ''the number of programs and
students we're supporting is insufficient.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Mismatch Between Supply and Demand''As the number of
people in New York City who do not speak English well has grown, a mismatch has
developed between where they live and where family literacy centers are located,
especially in Queens, where only a few centers serve a large population.Map of
New York City shows the number of people 18 and older in each census tract who
speak another language at home and do not speak English well.(Sources by Queens
College Department of Sociology analysis of 2000 census data
Literacy Assistance Center
 New York Public Interest Research Groups Community Mapping Assistance
Project)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 130 words


An article on Saturday about the killing of four members of an Egyptian
immigrant family in their Jersey City home misidentified the religious holiday
that the family, members of the Coptic Orthodox Church, celebrated on Jan. 7. It
was the Eastern Orthodox Christmas -- not Little Christmas, also known as the
Feast of the Three Kings.

The article and a related one in some copies on Sunday also included an
erroneous age from prosecutors for the family's eldest daughter, Sylvia. She was
15, not 16. And Saturday's article, as well as related articles on Monday and
Tuesday, included erroneous ages from prosecutors for the father, Hossam
Armanious, and the mother, Amal Garas. They were 47 and 37, not 46 and 36.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inquiry Into Boston Plot Widens

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA; Eric Lichtblau contributed reporting from Washington
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 21


Officials said on Friday that an unknown informant who told the authorities that
a group of Chinese was plotting a terrorist attack here could have been a
disgruntled trafficker of immigrants who was not paid or was in a drug deal gone
awry.

The possibilities were among several being investigated as the transit police
stepped up security, patrolling the subway with radiation detectors and posting
photographs of four suspects at token booths and on signs.

''We've enhanced coverage in the core system,'' the deputy chief of the
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, John Martino, said. ''We've added
patrols.''

The patrols are ''standard practice'' in terrorist alerts or large events like
the Boston Marathon, Mr. Martino said.

Officials in New Hampshire have put their radiation detection material on
standby, said Bruce Cheney, director of the State Division of Emergency
Services, Communications and Management.

Federal officials announced on Wednesday that they had received a tip of
''uncorroborated and unknown reliability'' that four Chinese were planning an
unspecified attack here. The tip suggested that the four entered California from
Mexico.

A public safety official said the tipster had alerted the California authorities
that the four were to intercept some type of nuclear or radiological material in
New York.

The F.B.I. said on Thursday that it was seeking 10 others in the case.

Officials have played down any threat for two days. United States Attorney
Michael J. Sullivan raised the possibility that the tip could be a hoax and that
the suspects might not be in the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Woman Sought in Boston Threat Is Already in Custody

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 262 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 22


One of the Chinese citizens sought for questioning in connection with an
unspecified, unconfirmed threat against the city of Boston has been in United
States custody for more than two months, the F.B.I. said on Saturday.

Mei Xia Dong has been located in a Customs and Border Protection detention
facility in the San Diego area, the F.B.I. said in a statement on its Web site.

It said Ms. Dong, identified earlier this week as a man, is a woman who was
arrested on an immigration violation on Nov. 11.

Ms. Dong has been in custody ever since.

The F.B.I. said she had paid an undisclosed sum to human smugglers to be brought
into the United States through Mexico.

''It appears at this time that Mei Xia Dong's motives for entering the U.S. may
have been for economic reasons,'' the F.B.I. statement said.

''The investigation thus far does not tie her to any terrorist group,'' it said.

Officials have said they are increasingly skeptical about the validity of an
uncorroborated tip from an anonymous source that led to a terror alert in Boston
on Wednesday.

News media reports spoke of threats to explode a ''dirty bomb,'' which disperses
low-level radioactive material, and the F.B.I. announced it was seeking to
interview 14 people, most of them Chinese, in connection with the unspecified
plot.

But by Friday, Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts said that he was growing less
concerned about the situation.

Officials began to speculate that the tip was a hoax.

The F.B.I. said that it was still interested in speaking with the remaining 13
people it identified this week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 24, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 243 words



Super Bowl: Patriots Are Back; Eagles Break Through
Tom Brady led the Patriots to their third Super Bowl appearance in four years in
a 41-27 victory over the Steelers. New England will meet Philadelphia on Feb. 6.
The Eagles won the National Football Conference title game, 27-10 over Atlanta,
after failing in three straight title games.   SPORTSMONDAY

A Second-Term Challenge
President Bush's second-term clout is already being tested by Republican doubts
about his domestic agenda, unease about Iraq and the threat of overreaching,
officials in both parties say.   PAGE A14

Ukraine's New President
His face disfigured by poisoning, Viktor A. Yushchenko was sworn in as Ukraine's
president, vowing to unite his nation and lead it into the European mainstream.
He declared a ''beautiful'' victory over tyranny and electoral fraud.   PAGE A9

In Record Immigration, A New York Transformed
The immigrants who remade New York City in the 1990's are indelibly shaping its
future. Six in 10 babies born in the city since 2000 have at least one
foreign-born parent, according to the most detailed portrait of immigrant New
York ever by the City Planning Department. It estimates the number of immigrant
residents at 3.2 million.   PAGE B1

Civilians Terrorized in Sudan
Even as Sudan celebrates the recent end of one civil war, the ethnic violence
that has devastated villages in the western region of Darfur continues
unchecked, sending civilians fleeing in terror.   PAGE A3


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Jim Bourg/Reuters)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 24, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Record Immigration Changing New York's Neighborhoods

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1644 words


The immigrants who remade New York in the 1990's are now indelibly shaping its
future, according to new city figures showing that 6 in 10 babies born in the
city since 2000 have at least one foreign-born parent. The foreign-born groups
growing fastest through immigration, including Mexicans, Guyanese and
Bangladeshis, also have among the highest birthrates, the figures show.

Even for a city with a storied immigrant past, the sheer size and diversity of
the present foreign-born population is greater than ever before, according to
the most detailed and sweeping portrait of immigrant New York ever to be issued
by the City Planning Department. Demographers counted 2.9 million immigrant
residents in 2000 and estimate the current number is at least 3.2 million, a
record high.

The report, to be released today as a 265-page book called ''The Newest New
Yorkers 2000: Immigrant New York in the New Millennium,'' offers a comprehensive
look at the foreign-born residents who have transformed the city's
neighborhoods, schools and businesses, bringing sari shops to Queens, halal
pizza to Brooklyn and Ghanaian preachers to the Bronx. Unlike earlier city
reports that dealt only with legal immigrants recorded by federal authorities,
this analysis tries to capture legal, illegal and temporary residents alike,
combining census information, city housing surveys and vital statistics to offer
a fine-grained topography of a global resettlement unmatched by any other
metropolis.

One result is the striking emergence of Mexicans as the fifth largest immigrant
group in the city. Their census numbers quadrupled to 122,550 in the decade
since 1990, when they ranked 17th with 32,689. City demographers said the true
growth was still higher, possibly to a total of 200,000, and not expected to
slow. Births to the city's Mexican-born mothers -- 6,408 in 2000 -- are second
only to births to foreign-born Dominicans, who remained the most numerous of the
city's foreign-born groups at 369,000 residents, followed by the Chinese, the
Jamaicans, and the Guyanese.

The report did not try to calculate rates of illegal immigration for Mexicans or
any other group, though Mr. Salvo acknowledged that the large increase in the
Mexican-born population could not be accounted for by recorded legal
immigration. Jeffrey Passel, a demographer with the Pew Hispanic Center who has
studied the issue, said that nationally, 80 to 85 percent of all Mexican
immigration since 1990 was undocumented, while among other immigrant groups, a
great majority had entered legally.

''Any place that's getting a lot of new immigration from Mexico, virtually all
of it is undocumented,'' Mr. Passel said, ''and that certainly includes New
York.''

Still, the city is home to only 1 percent of Mexicans in the United States --
compared with 54 percent of the nation's Dominican-born immigrants and 45
percent of its Bangladeshis, who are the city's fastest-growing group. Too few
to count in 1980, Bangladeshis surged to 17th place from 42nd in the 1990's,
mainly through diversity visas issued by lottery. They now place 10th in the
number of births, with Pakistanis right behind them. One reason is that nearly
80 percent of Bangladeshi households are married-couple families, as are more
than 6 in 10 Indian, Chinese, and Pakistani homes, compared with only 31 percent
of native-born New Yorkers' households.

At a time when a Congressional push for crackdowns on illegal immigrants is
converging with backlogs in legal immigration, the report stresses the economic
benefits that sheer numbers of newcomers brought the city in recent decades,
replacing residents who died or moved out, filling housing vacancies,
revitalizing small businesses, and now accounting for 43 percent of the city's
work force. High rates of migration to other states are still offset only by a
combination of foreign immigration and births increased by immigrant fertility,
the demographers said.

''If we didn't have immigration, I don't know where we'd be,'' said Joseph
Salvo, director of the department's population division and co-author of the
report with Arun Peter Lobo. ''Immigrant flows have mitigated catastrophic
population losses in the 1970's, stabilized the city's population in the 1980's,
and helped the city reach a new population peak of over 8 million in 2000.''

In the new world limned by the report, ethnicity and race are moving categories.
More than a third of the city's black population is now foreign-born, the
demographers said, with Afro-Caribbeans, who represent 21 percent of the city's
immigrants, tending to replace African-Americans moving outside the city and to
southern states, and the African-born population more than doubling to 92,400,
or more than 3 percent of the foreign born.

Though Europeans increased in numbers through a surge of refugees and the use of
diversity visas, available to people with low rates of recent immigration, like
Poland, they declined to 19 percent of the city's foreign-born population from
24 percent. Had the countries of the former Soviet Union been counted together,
as in earlier reports, immigrants born there would have been the city's fourth
largest group, with 164,000 residents. Instead, Russia placed 10th, with 81,408,
with Ukraine, Belarus and others lower on the list.

Nearly a third of city immigrants are from Latin America. Yet they seem as much
divided as united by their Hispanic origins, with Mexicans joining the Chinese
in Sunset Park, Ecuadoreans in Jackson Heights beside Bangladeshis, and
Salvadorans and Guatemalans showing up in Far Rockaway. In that seaside
neighborhood, demographers also discovered Russians, Ukrainians, Haitians,
Israelis, Nigerians and Jamaicans after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, noticing its
unusually high numbers of non-English speakers on a map of literacy needs
recently, asked them, ''What's going on down there?''

In his 1997 book ''A Far Rockaway of the Heart,'' the Bronx-born poet Lawrence
Ferlinghetti might have provided an answer:

 Everything changes and nothing changes

Centuries end

and all goes on

as if nothing ever ends

And the fever of savage city life

still grips the streets

But I still hear singing

 A century ago, when immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe poured through
Ellis Island, the foreign-born made up more than 40 percent of the city's
population -- 80 percent when their American-born children were counted, too.
But the city's total population was then only 4.7 million. At 36 percent of
today's 8 million New Yorkers -- up from a low of 18 percent in 1970 -- the size
of today's foreign-born population is a record, and taken together, foreign-born
residents and their offspring account for more than 55 percent of the city's
population. More than 43 percent of the foreign-born arrived after 1990, and 80
percent after 1980.

The same dynamic that New York experienced then is now under way in the 31
counties of the metropolitan region, the report said, especially in Hudson,
Passaic, Union, Middlesex, Bergen and Essex in New Jersey and Westchester in New
York, which all count the foreign-born as more than one-fifth of their
populations.

Increasingly, some immigrant groups, like Jamaicans and Haitians, are bypassing
the city and settling directly in adjacent counties, drawn to housing vacated by
aging European immigrants of earlier migrations and their children.

''New York City is as much a process as a place,'' the report said of these
crosscurrents.

What Mr. Salvo called the report's ''wall-to-wall statistics'' conveyed a
strikingly mixed bag of socioeconomic factors, with some large groups, like
Dominicans and Mexicans, far below the city's median education and earnings, and
others, like Filipinos and Indians, far above it. In many groups, high rates of
homeownership coexist with high rates of overcrowding -- 42.2 percent of Chinese
households are owner-occupied, for example, and 34.2 percent are overcrowded,
compared with citywide rates of 30.3 and 14.6 percent respectively.

Just over one in four foreign-born Dominicans has completed high school, and
only 30 percent speak English very well. Nearly a third are in poverty, compared
with a citywide rate of 21 percent, and 18.6 percent of households are on public
assistance, compared with 7.5 percent for all residents.

Though Mexicans had the city's lowest median earnings ($16,737 for women,
$21,284 for men) and lowest levels of education (slightly more than a third
graduated from high school), they managed to bring their household incomes to 85
percent of the city median of $37,700, by having multiple workers in overcrowded
households.

That was a strategy used even by highly educated foreign-born groups like the
city's 49,600 Filipinos, at the other end of the spectrum. Median female earning
among Filipinos was $51,000, and median household income $70,500, both the
highest of any immigrant group. Though there are only 60 Filipino men to every
100 Filipino women, the Filipino poverty rate is only 5.3 percent, a fourth the
citywide rate of 21 percent; only 2 percent receive public assistance.

''There is no typical New York immigrant,'' Mr. Salvo said. The report assembles
an intricate mosaic of facts to support that assertion, from the highest rates
of homeownership (Italians, 64 percent) to the most skewed sex ratio (161
Pakistani men to every 100 Pakistani women). Its combination of maps and tables
pinpoint the whereabouts of the top 40 immigrant groups, from the 90,336
Dominicans in Washington Heights, to the five French immigrants settled in the
Great Kills Zip code on Staten Island.

''The level of complexity and diversity is beyond anything we've had in our
history,'' Mr. Salvo said. ''We've evolved into a city that's just an
unprecedented mix. And for the most part all these people get along -- it's a
testament to the power of the city.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Americans in Brooklyn in May, from left front, Guang Zhou,
from China
Rahima Khatun, from Bangladesh
 and Mario Leonardo Arzu, from Guatemala. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York
Times)Chart: ''An Ever-Evolving Population''Immigrant groups in New York with
the largest populations are not necessarily growing the fastest.TEN LARGEST
FOREIGN-BORN POPULATIONS, BY COUNTRY, 2000:Dominican Republic: 369,186China:
261,551Jamaica: 178,922Guyana: 130,647Mexico: 122,550Ecuador: 114,944Haiti:
95,580Trinidad, Tobago: 88,794Colombia: 84,404Russia: 81,408TEN FASTEST-GROWING
FOREIGN-BORN POPULATIONS, BY COUNTRY, 1990-2000:Bangladesh: 393%%Mexico:
274.9%Pakistan: 162.7%Ecuador: 90.1%Honduras: 80.9%Guyana: 71.7%India:
68.9%Dominican Republic: 64.1%China: 63.1%Trinidad, Tobago: 57.2%(Source by New
York City Department of City Planning, Population Division)(pg. B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 25, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: North Carolina: Deportation For Pakistani Who Taped
F.B.I. Office

BYLINE: By Ariel Hart (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 112 words


A Pakistani, Kamran Akhtar, who was jailed in July after videotaping buildings
in Charlotte, was sentenced to time served and turned over to immigration
authorities for deportation to Pakistan. Mr. Akhtar, also known as Kamran
Shaikh, pleaded guilty to possessing false identification, to missing a 1998
deadline to leave the United States after being denied asylum and to three
counts of lying to the authorities. His lawyer, George Miller, said Mr. Akhtar's
images, including buildings in Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and New Orleans, as well
as the Charlotte skyscraper that is home to an office of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, were tourist souvenirs.   Ariel Hart (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Years Later, a Miami Trial Over the Seizing of Elian

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Miami for
this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1142 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 27


The moment  5:14 a.m. on April 22, 2000 -- remains as vivid to them as
yesterday. Armanda Santos was fixing her daughter a drink in the predawn quiet
of their kitchen. Carmen Valdes was praying the rosary. Leslie Alvarez was
eating a slice of pizza, and Madeleine Peraza was holding vigil with friends in
her living room.

The calm -- and for years to come, they said, their well-being -- was shattered
when federal agents with long guns descended on NW Second Street in Little
Havana, swarming a small white house and snatching a boy named Elian Gonzalez.
Now, almost five years after the government seized Elian from his great-uncle's
home and returned him to his father in Cuba, neighbors and others who witnessed
the three-minute raid are getting their day in court.

In a civil trial that began Monday in federal court here, 13 plaintiffs are
seeking up to $250,000 each in damages, charging that agents from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service unnecessarily sprayed them with tear gas
at close range, shoved, cursed and traumatized them in their zeal to remove
Elian without a struggle. Government witnesses have testified that the officers
used only appropriate and necessary force as they made their way through a
gantlet of furious protesters to reach Elian.

Though the world, even most of Miami, has put the Elian affair in the past, the
plaintiffs say they relive it constantly. In testimony this week, they described
being sprayed in the face with tear gas and still suffering depression, anxiety,
sleeplessness.

''I could not breathe, my face was burning,'' said Ms. Alvarez, a plaintiff who
did not live on the street but had gone there that morning, she said, to show
support for the Gonzalez family. ''I thought I was going to die, and something
has remained with me.''

Several of the plaintiffs said they still gather at poolside barbecues, in one
another's kitchens or in front of Casa Elian, as it is known here, to recall how
Elian, then 6, entered and departed their lives. He was found floating alone in
an inner tube off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving Day in 1999, after his
mother and 10 others drowned as they tried to cross from Cuba.

His great-uncle in Miami, Lazaro Gonzalez, took him in, but Elian became an
international obsession -- the subject of a political tug of war between Fidel
Castro, who demanded the boy's return to his father in Cuba, and his relatives
and other Cuban exiles here, who said returning him would be crushing to
democracy. Many of the family's supporters, including Ms. Alvarez and Ms.
Valdes, had gathered that morning behind barricades that the police had erected
outside the Gonzalez house.

Others, including neighbors like Mrs. Peraza and Mrs. Santos, had stayed up all
night in their houses waiting for the showdown they had heard was coming, though
they had no idea when or in what form. Some plaintiffs testified that agents
went onto their property to spray tear gas, while others said they were sprayed
in the face while standing behind the barricades. Several said they initially
thought Mr. Castro had sent the black-suited, helmeted agents to wreak havoc on
their neighborhood.

Nancy Canizares, another plaintiff, who lives in Hialeah, Fla., but said she
visited Elian's neighborhood regularly back then, said she was sitting in a lawn
chair on the sidewalk behind the Gonzalez home when agents jumped from a van and
shouted, ''Don't move, don't move, I'll kill you.'' She said they forced her to
lie face down on the ground with her legs spread, even after she told them she
was in pain.

The suit, filed in 2003, originally had more than 100 plaintiffs, but most were
dropped after Judge K. Michael Moore of United States District Court ruled that
only people who stayed off the Gonzalez property and behind the barricades that
morning were eligible.

Government witnesses said on Thursday that the agents never encroached on the
plaintiffs' property, and that those who sprayed gas did so only when protesters
began surging toward the barricades and throwing rocks and other objects at
them.

''The crowd was very animated and angry and started to breach that barricade
line,'' said Michael Compiatello, an agent who said he sprayed gas during the
raid but only from a distance.

The nonjury trial is expected to wrap up on Friday.

As his drama is reborn in a courtroom here, Elian Gonzalez, now 11, is living a
cloistered but still highly publicized life in the small town of Cardenas, Cuba.
Children across the island celebrate his birthday each December. He appears at
political rallies with Mr. Castro and is said to have bodyguards who escort him
to and from school.

Elian lives with his father, Juan Miguel, his stepmother and two younger half
brothers. His American relatives have not seen or spoken to him since the raid,
though they predict he will return to them one day.

''When Elian grows up, he will come back and see this house,'' said Delfin
Gonzalez, another of Elian's great-uncles, who bought the house after the raid.
Delfin Gonzalez turned the house into a museum, which he said people visit every
week to see Elian's toys, clothes and race-car bed.

Delfin Gonzalez said he lived for a time in the Florida Keys but was drawn back
to the little white house even though its silence weighs on him. Lazaro Gonzalez
and his daughter, Marisleysis, left the neighborhood after the raid to escape
memories and reclaim their anonymity, Delfin Gonzalez said. They return
sometimes, but Ms. Gonzalez, now 26, never enters the house, he said.

Reached at the hair salon she opened several years ago, Ms. Gonzalez, who acted
as a mother to Elian when he lived here, declined to be interviewed. The family
has its own lawsuit pending against the agents in the raid, said Irene Garcia, a
spokeswoman for Judicial Watch, a conservative group that brought the suit being
heard this week.

A judge ruled that the agents had immunity, Ms. Garcia said, but the family has
appealed. The family and neighbors and bystanders also tried to sue Janet Reno,
President Bill Clinton's attorney general, who ordered the raid. Those suits
were dismissed when the courts ruled that Ms. Reno had immunity.

Donato Dalrymple, who found Elian drifting at sea during a fishing trip, was
originally a plaintiff in the suit being heard this week. But he was dropped
because he was inside the Gonzalez house during the raid. Mr. Dalrymple famously
hid with Elian in a closet, then tried to hold on to the screaming boy as an
armed agent pulled him away.

Ms. Santos, 69, who lives two doors down from the Gonzalez house, said she was
not sure how she would spend any money won in the suit. She is just happy to be
involved, she said, even if testifying was her most unnerving experience since
the raid.

''I have my right,'' she said. ''And if I have my right, why not take advantage
of it?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Delfin Gonzalez, a great-uncle of Elian Gonzalez, has turned
the Miami house where Elian lived into a museum. Armanda Santos, below left,
lived two doors down with her daughter, Marta Rodriguez. (Photo by Alex Quesada
for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 29, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Crack Once Ruled, Construction Now Booms

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 743 words


From central Brooklyn to the South Bronx to the farthest corners of Staten
Island, new homes in the city are being built in numbers not seen in a
generation.

In 2004, the city approved the construction of 25,208 housing units in New York
City, more than in any year since 1972, according to newly released census
figures. By comparison, in the last boom year of 1985, reflecting a successful
housing program under the Koch administration, about 20,300 units were
permitted; in 1994, however, there were 4,010.

This rapid growth, like most economic development trends in New York, stems in
part from the policies of city government, but more importantly from the
confidence of the private market, which is building and financing homes in
neighborhoods best known 10 years ago for their brisk crack trade and
overwhelming economic misery.

''There has been development activity in places that would have been
inconceivable 10 years ago,'' said Carol Abrams, the spokeswoman for the
Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which works with developers
to rehabilitate and develop housing. ''There has been the absolute
transformation of the boroughs,'' Ms. Abrams said. ''New immigrants or longtime
residents now want to plunk down their life savings for a place in Mott Haven or
East New York.''

The building spurt reflects a confluence of factors, including the city's rising
population -- fueled in large part by immigrants who are willing to take a
chance on underdeveloped areas that are no longer riddled with crime -- as well
as the city's continual housing shortage and protracted low mortgage rates.

''The thing that is amazing is that everyone thinks of the real estate community
in New York as Manhattan,'' said Shaun Donovan, the commissioner of the housing
preservation department. ''And yet Manhattan is fourth out of the five boroughs
in permits.''

Driving this trend, Mr. Donovan said, is the tide of new immigrants and
middle-class New Yorkers who are making a go in newly safe neighborhoods.
''During the 1990's, New York City added more people than live in entire cities
in the United States,'' he said. ''Clearly the really unprecedented boom in
immigration is driving a large part of the increase. But also people are staying
who once might otherwise have moved out.''

According to United States Census Bureau statistics released yesterday, Queens
County leads the housing boom, with permits issued last year for 6,853 units.
Brooklyn was just behind, at 6,825 permits. Even Staten Island, which has been
fighting development in many neighborhoods, had 2,051 permits for homes, which
will probably be developed over the next few years.

In 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a $3 billion plan to create tens
of thousands of low- and middle-income housing units in New York City over five
years, through both the repair and preservation of 38,000 units of existing
housing and by building 27,000 new units in all five boroughs. His plan called
for a complex financing deal in which the city's Housing Development Corporation
would borrow against that agency's mortgage equity.

As of this year, 26,000 units have come under development, and his
administration is offering a loan program in cooperation with four commercial
banks to develop thousands more abandoned or decaying properties in the city.

At the same time, developers around the city have found that there is a market
for housing in many neighborhoods considered anathema a decade ago.

''There has been a concerted effort on government's part to help finance
housing,'' said Jason Bram, a regional economist with the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York. ''This is mostly true in poor neighborhoods, where they go in and
other developers say, 'Aha, now there is an anchor!' and now the whole
neighborhood improves.''

Perhaps unsurprisingly, Bloomberg administration officials credit the mayor with
much of the boom.

''This mayor is responsible for the single largest housing boom this city has
ever seen,'' said John Crotty, executive vice president of the Housing
Development Corporation. ''The market is so hot right now there is no area that
is bad for development. Developers have made investments in places where no
private money would ever go into.''

Last year the housing agency issued $1.1 billion in bonds to create and preserve
new housing, the largest amount since the federal tax reform act of 1986, Mr.
Crotty said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2005 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Entrepreneurs or Tax Evaders?

BYLINE: By SELIM ALGAR

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2033 words


A HARDENED son of arid central Turkey, Emre Akpinar was no stranger to
deprivation. But indignity was another matter.

Mr. Akpinar said the distinction crystallized the first night he spent in a
Brentwood gas station. Marinating in fumes, the 32-year-old immigrant, fresh off
the plane from Ankara, remembers settling down on his mattress, gazing up at the
blackened underbelly of a hoisted car that was being serviced. It became a
nightly feature of his new existence in America for more than a year.

''I didn't expect a luxury hotel, but I wasn't ready for that either,'' he said
of his living arrangement. ''In Turkey a lot of people are poor but they still
can make their homes respectable. This wasn't respectable and there was nothing
I could do to make it respectable.''

Mr. Akpinar is but one face in a niche that Turks have carved out of the Long
Island economy. Kemal Karpat, a history professor who has studied Long Island's
Turks and owns a home in Quogue, estimated that 25,000 Turks have settled on the
Island over the past two decades, and said the majority rely on jobs at area gas
stations. Bob Santasiero, a spokesman for the Long Island Gas Retailers
Association, said that of 1,800 gas stations on the Island, about 300 are owned
and operated by Turkish merchants.

''I would say that for the last 12 or 13 years they have really gotten into this
business,'' Mr. Santasiero said. The gas station business has made successful
men out of many of these newcomers, most of whom arrive with scant education and
little capital, and has given rise to Turkish communities in places like Medford
and Huntington. The largest Turkish enclaves in America are in Brooklyn and
Queens, but the Turkish Embassy in Washington points to the Long Island outposts
with pride, describing their achievements as classic American success stories
born of entrepreneurial drive, hard work and pluck.

But the previously inconspicuous Turkish community on the Island has been placed
in an uncomfortable spotlight in recent months. Last July, federal agents raided
140 Turkish-owned gas stations in Nassau and Suffolk counties, arresting 57
people in what the authorities described as a multimillion-dollar operation to
evade federal income and New York State gasoline taxes.

Law enforcement authorities said the 140 gas stations, all owned by the same
four Turkish-born partners, evaded New York State's 15.2-cent-a-gallon gross
receipt gasoline tax by trucking gasoline in from New Jersey, which has no such
tax.

''We found that they laundered big sums of money and then transferred the funds
abroad,'' said Joe Foy, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. ''This constitutes tax evasion, illegal transfer of money abroad
and a violation of foreign exchange regulations.''

Mr. Santasiero said that an average tanker truck can carry about 10,000 gallons
of gasoline per trip. That works out to roughly $1,500 in savings per bootleg
tanker. ''When you run two or three trucks a day to your gas stations, the money
really adds up,'' Mr. Santasiero said.

The practice is more common, Mr. Santasiero said, at smaller independent
stations that can shutter quickly and then move on to a new location if they are
caught with bootleg gas. None of the 140 raided places were major-brand
stations.

Adding a new dimension to the problem is the fact that the bootleg gasoline
contains MTBE, an additive that increases the octane rating and cuts air
pollution. It is legal in New Jersey but was outlawed in New York State at the
start of 2004 after it was found to be contaminating groundwater, which on the
Island is the sole source of public drinking water supplies. Station owners face
a $10,000 fine for each pump found to contain the pollutant. The silver lining
is that MTBE-added bootleg gasoline can be detected by a quick chemical test.
This month, the authorities swept into several more stations, at least one of
them (in Massapequa) owned by Turks, that were alleged to be selling gasoline
containing MTBE. Federal officials have warned that more raids on Long Island
gas stations are likely to follow.

''I would say that 15 to 20 percent of gas stations on Long Island are using
bootlegged gas,'' Mr. Santasiero said. ''I've been in this business for 42 years
and I can tell you that it's a big problem.''

For a community that had tiptoed its way toward assimilation, the negative
attention has been unsettling. Local Turks, most of whom are Muslims, have had
minor troubles before, especially in the wake of 9/11. Arabs, not Turks, mounted
the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks, but several Turkish gas station
clerks were threatened and harassed and the Galatasaray Club, a hangout in Rocky
Point for fans of the Istanbul soccer team of the same name, was vandalized.

Those tensions subsided, but the gas station crackdown has cast the community in
a harsh light. ''I think there is the feeling that we may be targeted,'' said
Temel Artukmac, a former gasoline wholesaler and the owner of the popular Angora
Restaurant in Medford. ''People are watching themselves.''

In the weeks after the raids in July, Mr. Artukmac said his business declined.
Turks were skittish about gathering in numbers and his American customers felt a
bit uncomfortable patronizing the restaurant in the wake of the raids, he said.
''I hope people are smart enough to understand that these were isolated
incidents, just a few people doing the wrong thing,'' he said. ''There is no
crime ring, nothing organized.''

The authorities disagree. According to the criminal complaint filed against the
owners of the 140 raided stations by the office of the United States Attorney
for the Eastern District of New York, the group sold nearly $28 million worth of
gasoline since 1999 and had evaded taxes on half of it.

The four owners -- Turhan Ak of Miller Place, Mustafa Catalbas of Mount Sinai,
Ahmet Cayan of Port Jefferson and Sukru Akkaya, whose residence was not listed
-- were partners in about 40 separate companies that together owned the 140 gas
stations that were raided in July, according to records in the federal court in
Central Islip. The complaint says that to underreport their income and avoid
paying taxes, the defendants shuttled runners carrying white canvas bags stuffed
with gas station revenue into Washington Mutual and HSBC banks, keeping each
cash deposit under $10,000, the threshold at which banks are required by law to
report deposits to the Internal Revenue Service.

Federal agents kept the quartet under surveillance for months as they built
their case against them. They pleaded not guilty, were denied bail and face up
to 10 years in prison if convicted. Efforts to contact the defendants were
unsuccessful; calls to the attorney for Mr. Cayan were not returned.

While the crackdown has focused for the time being on alleged ringleaders, the
net ensnared more than just big fish. The raids resulted in the arrest of 50
undocumented workers who were employed in some capacity by the four partners.
Authorities said that many of the illegal immigrants had been smuggled into the
country by their employers, were paid low wages and worked in poor conditions.
Most have been released but face deportation.

One of those swept up in the raids was Mr. Akpinar. He said he was born and
raised in the central Turkish town of Zile and heard stories of bountiful jobs
in a pleasant locale in America called Long Island. He said he had friends who
had come here and reported back that they found steady work. ''Of course you
hear stories that exaggerate,'' said the stocky, stubbled Mr. Akpinar. ''But you
sometimes believe the best of what you hear because you want it to be true. I
wanted to make money and be able to save up something for myself and my family.
So I believed it could happen.''

So he contacted a smuggler who could shepherd him to New York. He said that for
agreeing to pay installments totaling $7,500, more than he made annually as a
part-time stone quarry worker in Anatolia, he was given a plane ticket to New
York, a fake green card and a promise of housing in Brentwood and a job at a
Long Island gas station. Leaving behind a wife and two children, he arrived in
late 2002 with nothing more than his clothes, some family photos and some
Turkish good luck charms.

He said Long Island did not appear as idyllic as the name suggested. There were
no island-like features in sight from Brentwood, his new home, and the only
demonstrably long part of his new existence was the length of his work day. His
pay was set at $3.50 an hour, with free cigarettes and soda his main
perquisites.

But the rooming house was not available his first night on the job. So he
settled down to sleep in the gas station. The promise of real housing was made
and broken repeatedly over the next few months by a manager at his station, a
Coastal outfit in Brentwood. Finally, Mr. Akpinar said, he accepted his living
conditions.

''What could I do?'' he said. ''I had no money, no real family here. I was in
debt. I just told myself to be tough, that hard work pays off in the end.''

But the end actually came in the form of plastic handcuffs last July. Mr.
Akpinar is back working at a different gas station on the Island -- he wouldn't
say where -- while awaiting deportation to Turkey. He said he will leave America
having saved no money and having no real prospect of a return until he retires
his debt to his smuggler -- about $1,500, he said.

''There are bad apples in every bunch,'' said Haluk Dincsalman, who owns four
gas stations in Shirley and has been a Long Island resident for 20 years. He
calls himself an American and accepts the fact that his son's command of Turkish
and tolerance for the old country's culture and mores are eroding.

Mr. Dincsalman was around during the difficult early days of Turkish immigration
to Long Island. He was one of the early few immigrants who, in the purest
American tradition, saved up enough money from 17-hour workdays at gas stations
to finally own outlets of their own. From there, friends and family were
introduced into the fold and a migratory trend was established that has lasted
for 20 years.

''How do Greeks enter the diner business or how does any other group get into
any business?'' Mr. Dincsalman asked. ''You have a few people in the beginning
who become successful and then it spreads. This is the business that we know.''

Mr. Dincsalman lamented that the raids came at a time when the Turkish community
on Long Island was just beginning to fan out into other industries. ''It's not
like the old days,'' he said. ''There are Turks in different types of business
now, like construction and landscaping, some painters. There are more choices.''

Mr. Artukmac, the restaurateur, said he was optimistic about the future of Long
Island's Turkish enclave despite the recent setbacks. But a relatively new
ethnic community, especially one with a Muslim heritage, can be vulnerable in
America, he said. Although Turkish immigration to America in general and Long
Island in particular has slowed drastically after the tightening of borders
following 9/11, Turks continue to settle here. They gather in the small
mom-and-pop stores to sip crimson Turkish tea in traditional glasses and listen
to popular songs that are the rage at home.

A group of landscapers outside Angora discussed the future of Turks in the area.
''It is like any other group that has come here, the Italians, the Irish,'' said
Savas Oktay, 34, who arrived on Long Island from Ankara last year to work at a
local tree trimming business owned by a friend. He said the guarantees of a job
and an apartment had been honored, but said that life for those without a
support system in place can be very difficult. The raids, he said, only make
things worse for the most vulnerable of Long Island's Turks.

''You have the people who want the money right away and cause trouble,'' he
said. ''That makes it harder for people who just want to work hard and have a
happy life.''

Mr. Akpinar found that out the hard way. ''This is the life of the immigrant,''
he said, stubbing out one of the last of the free Marlboros he had stockpiled
from misadventure in America.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2005



CORRECTION: AT the request of federal prosecutors, a judge dismissed criminal
charges in October against four men involved in operating gas stations on Long
Island, charges that were substantially overstated in an article in the Long
Island section last Sunday. The article, about the reaction among local Turks to
raids by federal agents on Turkish-owned gas stations, failed to report that the
charges against the men had been dismissed.

 The article also reported incorrectly that the four men -- Turhan Ak, Sukru
Akkaya, Mustafa Catalbas and Ahmet Cayan -- had been charged with evading taxes
and bootlegging gasoline. It also implied incorrectly that they were charged
with smuggling illegal aliens into the United States.

The Times article contained a number of errors and was marred by journalistic
lapses. The most serious lapse was the failure of the newspaper to contact the
four men or their lawyers.

In fact, the four men were charged in July with only one, less serious, crime:
trying to circumvent federal regulations that require banks to report cash
transactions over $10,000 to the Internal Revenue Service. Prosecutors alleged
that the men had divided big deposits into smaller chunks to avoid triggering
that reporting requirement.

Lawyers for the men categorically denied the charges. Joel R. Weiss, who
represented Mr. Akkaya in the criminal case, said in an interview on Thursday
that the men made frequent bank deposits to avoid keeping cash at the gas
stations, and deposited money into different bank accounts because the stations
were set up as separate corporate entities and were often owned by different
combinations of shareholders.

In October, a judge granted the request of the prosecutors, from the office of
the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, to dismiss the
charges. On Thursday, a spokesman for the office, Robert Nardoza, declined to
comment on the case.

In July, Federal authorities seized bank accounts belonging to Messrs. Ak,
Akkaya and Catalbas, and a Mercedes belonging to Mr. Akkaya, and continue to
assert in a civil proceeding that these assets are forfeit because the men
violated the cash reporting regulations.

Steven L. Kessler, the Manhattan lawyer representing the group in the civil
forfeiture case, said the government's case is weak. ''There is nothing here,''
he said.

At the time of the raids in July, United States Immigration and Customs
Enforcement announced in a press release, still available on its Web site, that
it had moved against ''an alleged Turkish organized crime ring suspected of
violating money-laundering and immigration laws to raise and move millions of
dollars overseas.''

English- and Turkish-language news reports said that law enforcement officers
had picked up at least 50 people of Turkish origin who were suspected of being
illegal aliens; the immigration authorities would not confirm those accounts
last week.

The Times article misused quotations from law enforcement officials who were
commenting on the broad set of criminal proceedings that they brought against a
varied group of Turkish defendants last July. The article mistakenly suggested
that these officials were commenting specifically on the cases of Mssrs. Ak,
Akkaya, Catalbas and Cayan.

It misidentified one of the men so quoted, Joseph Foy; he is a spokesman for the
Internal Revenue Service, not Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The article reported incorrectly that the four men own 140 gas stations on Long
Island; according to lawyers for the four men, Mr. Akkaya and Mr. Catalbas owned
16, and Mr. Ak was a partner in at least one, said his lawyer, Douglas T. Burns.
Mr. Cayan did not own any gas stations, according to his lawyer, James O.
Druker, who described him as a low-level employee.

Prosecutors did not contend that the men evaded taxes on about $14 million of
gasoline revenue, as the article reported. In fact, the chief document filed
with the court in their criminal case, an affidavit from an I.R.S. special
agent, says only that he believed that the men may have tried to avoid
government scrutiny of their cash transactions because he suspected that they
were underreporting their income on their tax filings. Their lawyers say this
speculation is unfounded, as is an allegation that the men were in any way
involved in bringing in gasoline from New Jersey to avoid New York taxes.

The article also erroneously implied that their stations were pumping gasoline
that includes an additive, MTBE, which has been linked to groundwater pollution
and is banned in New York. Lawyers for the four men stressed that the gas
stations they operated were affiliated with major-brand oil companies that would
not have permitted such practices.

The article said they were denied bail, which was incorrect. Mr. Akkaya and Mr.
Catalbas were released directly from the courtroom under bail arrangements; Mr.
Ak and Mr. Cayan made bail within days, their lawyers said.

The accompanying photograph did not depict a gas station owned by any of the
four men, their lawyers said. It was raided in July, but court documents link it
to a different group of defendants. The caption stated incorrectly that it was
involved with gasoline smuggling.

Their legal problems have been very difficult for the four men, financially and
emotionally, said Andrew L. Crabtree, another lawyer who represents them. Mr.
Akkaya and Mr. Catalbas are American citizens, he noted.

''They ask, in America, how can they do this?'' Mr. Crabtree said. ''It's very
difficult to explain to them.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prosecutors say this Turkish-owned gas station in North
Amityville was a hub for a money laundering operation involving smuggled
gasoline. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Q Found Her Groove

BYLINE: By JIRO ADACHI.

Jiro Adachi is the author of the novel ''The Island of Bicycle Dancers.''

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2290 words


HER arm locks like a robot's, then pops from the shoulder, sending a wave
through her body. Michael Jackson's ''Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough'' blares
from a boombox in the Times Square subway station as a crowd of onlookers, heads
bobbing, cheer on the performer.

The break dancer is female, which is unusual enough. Even more eye-opening is
the fact that she is a 26-year-old Japanese woman with cornrows in Float
Committee, the crew of young African-American men with whom she is performing on
this day.

Her solo builds as she glides around the concrete floor, limbs electric, torso
fluttering as if from some subterranean wind. In another instant, she is back in
line with her crew, grinning and rocking to and fro as sweat pours down her
face.

To her family in the city of Nagoya, she is Kumi Naito. In her New York life
andin the break-dance world, she is simply Q,and a wild departure from the
stereotypeof the Japanese immigrant, or issei, thatNew Yorkers have known in the
past: the salaryman from a Japanese corporation with a wife in tow.

Q also typifies how the Japanese immigrant of today -- young, artistically
inclined, open to risks and twice as likely to be female than male -- differs
from the bulk of immigrants to New York, who come to take advantage of the
city's economic opportunities.

These Big Apple Issei, as they could be called, are cultural refugees, drawn to
New York's creative clamor and in search of freedom for their spirits.

This was certainly true of Q, who is thrilled to be able to pursue her passion
for dancing on the streets and in the city's subway stations; she even tours the
country and Europe with a professional company.

For her, this independence is everything. ''I can't imagine being in Japan,''
she said. ''I couldn't break dance there.''

A Place for Purple Hair

 In the last two decades, thousands of young Japanese like Q have come to New
York in search of the custom-tailored lifestyles that are hard to carve out in a
homeland, where johshiki -- traditional ways and morality -- still exert a
powerful influence. Such young people make up the majority of their fellow
countrymen, or rather, countrywomen, living in the city.

Census data from 2000 show that 63 percent of the 16,516 foreign-born Japanese
living in New York are women, and 64 percent are 20 to 39 years old. That
percentage of young people is nearly 23 percentage points higher than it is for
Chinese or Koreans, the two largest Asian immigrant groups in the city.

Hiroko Kazama, who is 42 and came to the city in 1987, said that young Japanese,
especially artistic types, come to New York because they find that other
American cities are too much like Japan. ''Japanese society doesn't have an
understanding for art,'' explained Ms. Kazama, who lives in the East Village and
works for City Lore, an urban folklore center on East First Street.
''Traditional art is accepted, but edgy art is not. Hair that's red and purple
is hard to accept. Young people are not comfortable with that.''

This is probably an understatement; young Japanese have ample cause for wanting
out. As early as fourth grade, many are sent to jukus -- cram schools -- to
begin preparing for the country's highly competitive college entrance exams. A
child's mother packs up two bento boxes each morning, one for lunch and one for
dinner. When the regular school day is over at 3, the children are off to jukus,
where they work until 10 p.m.

University years often provide the only break in a rigid educational regimen,
because students need only to do well on final exams to pass their classes. But
the rigid life track continues once they graduate from a university or junior
college. They are expected to get jobs, working as salarymen or O.L.'s -- office
ladies -- where they stay, sometimes for a lifetime.

Japan has certainly benefited from this kind of rigor, and perhaps this is why,
even with a shrinking population, the country is continually ranked among the
top 10 nations in terms of gross domestic product. But for those who remain on
the career track, the prospect of ''finding your bliss'' often becomes bleaker
with each passing year. Koji Toyama, a photography major at Parsons School of
Design who came to New York in 2000 and now lives in Williamsburg, put it
simply: ''Young people in Japan don't care about the future.''

Women, especially, encounter stiff obstacles to forging their own path in Japan.
Not only do they have a harder time developing professionally in a
male-dominated society, they often face harsh judgments if they choose not to
become a wife and mother at an early age.

''If you are an unmarried woman older than 25,'' said Jun Takama, a 41-year-old
who has lived in New York, mostly in Chelsea, since 1996, ''people refer to you
as Niju-go nichi sugita Kurisumasu keiki.'' Translation: you're a Christmas
cake, because no one wants you after ''25.''

Not wanting to be hemmed in by such conventional notions of how to live her
life, Ms. Takama has remained in New York, where she finds it easier to pursue
her personal and professional interests. She has worked as a hairstylist and
wants to set up a cross-cultural consulting service for Japanese women coming to
the city. When she spent a year as an O.L. at All Nippon Airways, in an office
based at Kennedy Airport, she still felt confined by the strictures of Japan.
Although she felt as if she performed better than some of her male colleagues,
it seemed to her that they found it easier to move up.

Many men she worked with also treated her as if she barely existed, she said.
When she arrived at work on a typical morning, for example, the men would
already be ensconced in their Yomiuri or Asahi Shimbun newspapers.

''Good morning,'' Ms. Takama trilled, imitating herself as the chipper O.L.
arriving just in time to make coffee. ''But the men only respond with a grunt.''

''When I got my hair cut short,'' she added, ''the only comment I got was 'What
are you trying to do, outdo us?'''

The Language of Adaptation

 Simply coming to New York, of course, doesn't guarantee success, and the path
to happiness here is as fraught with complications and pitfalls for young
Japanese as for any immigrant. And though the first obstacle for many of them is
the language barrier, learning English often helps them ease into the city's
multicultural stew, and in fact can be a ticket to self-discovery.

In English-language classrooms around the city, Big Apple Issei mix with Latin
Americans, Africans, Europeans and other Asians. At many private language
schools and those attached to universities, Japanese students typically make up
about 30 percent of the student body.

Caitlin Morgan, assistant director of the English language studies department at
the New School, has noticed the physical transformations that many Japanese
undergo while they are studying English: they change hair colors, get tattoos,
acquire multiple piercings, use hair extensions and grow dreadlocks.

Even without these extreme changes, the physical changes are visually dramatic.
''The women especially,'' she explained, ''their voices seem to get deeper, they
put on a little weight and become fitter, they use less makeup, they become a
little realer.''

''These foreign explorers,'' she added, ''seem to have an intuitive
understanding that in New York, there are rewards to taking creative risks and
trying new things.''

Sometimes, a student's interests become a vehicle for personal change that would
have been impossible in Japan. One afternoon, Ms. Morgan was advising a student
who was so smitten with hip-hop culture, if you closed your eyes and listened to
him talk, you'd have thought you were listening to a black hip-hop artist.

''I always got my rhymes in my head,'' the student said with a grin, hands
splayed, '''cause on the mike I gotta sound fly.''

Learning English also paved the way for 26-year-old Sayuri Tsuchitani, who felt
the lure of the city all the way from her rural town of Anabuki on the island of
Shikoku. New York, she said, had a ''buzz kind of thing.'' She heard that it was
dangerous here, that ''you could get killed.'' And so, she added with a gleam in
her eye, ''I wanted to check it out.''

Attending Rennert Bilingual, a private language school, became the first stop on
her road to independence and a job as a hairstylist, a career she had always
yearned to pursue. After two years of full-time English study, her language
skills were strong enough to allow her to enroll in Libs Beauty School in
Midtown. Her defining moment came when she got work as a hairstylist at Damian
West, a salon at Waverly Place and 10th Street.

''That was my real breakthrough,'' Ms. Tsuchitani said. ''That and having really
great, cool clients.''

She often visited with local musicians and singers who came to the salon and
turned her on to the neighborhood's jazz hot spots, like the Village Vanguard
and Sweet Basil. As she trimmed hair one afternoon recently, she chatted
animatedly about two concerts she attended recently at Irving Plaza -- the metal
band, Gwar, and the Afro-European music group, Zap Mama.

Ms. Tsuchitani now works at a Japanese-owned hair salon, Hair Kuwayama, on East
10th Street. Since 10 percent of the clients are Japanese, the salon needs
bilingual employees, and Ms. Tsuchitani finds herself in the position of being
an American-trained stylist working with other Big Apple Issei who underwent the
more rigorous training that stylists receive in Japan.

''They can do anything,'' she said admiringly of her colleagues. ''They blow my
mind. I'm learning a lot from them.''

Daifuku Meets Bagel

 While the city has no real Japanese enclave, the largest percentage of them --
16 percent, according to census data -- live in the Stuyvesant Town-Turtle Bay
area. But it is in the East Village that young Japanese are especially visible.

The area bounded by East Ninth Street, Stuyvesant Street and Second and Third
Avenues has become what some call Little Tokyo or J-Town, because it is so easy
to get a fix of daifuku, a traditional pastry, and okonomiyaki, an Osakan-style
seafood pancake. The venerable Sunrise Mart on East Ninth Street is stocked with
Japanese delicacies, groceries and housewares. St. Mark's Place from Third
Avenue to Avenue A is home to no fewer than nine Japanese restaurants as well as
a new Japanese convenience store.

Hang around these places for even a little while, and you will see a full range
of Big Apple Issei -- reggae punks with dreadlocks tucked into knitted tams the
colors of the Jamaican flag, hipsters smoking behind oversized shades, pairs of
chatty young women with dainty shopping bags hanging from their arms.

Despite its flavors of home, Little Tokyo is no Japan. That is exactly the point
for cultural refugees like Hanako Shimamoto, 37, who has lived in New York since
1992 and does not miss the constriction of her birthplace. She spends her days
as a floral designer at Fantasia, a secret garden of a store on East 74th Street
that is nestled on the ground floor of a two-story brick building. She left her
native land, she said, because ''in Japan, I could never go beyond my world.''

Ms. Shimamoto, whose open smile shows no hint of the reserve typical of Japanese
women, was born in Kyoto, a city renowned for its traditional beauty and
customs, and a place where, Ms. Shimamoto said, ''your neighbor knows everything
about you.''

''But at the same time,'' she added, ''people don't talk much. They want to hide
their emotions.''

Here in New York, she enjoys the unexpected in her conversations. Because her
employers are Catholics, their talks include God and religion, two topics that
are conversational taboos in Japan. ''In New York,'' she said, ''you open a door
to a different level of being with people.''

When she was working in Japan at a factory that manufactured dental equipment,
Ms. Shimamoto bristled at the routine of going out after work with colleagues
for food, drink and small talk. So she went to the gym or took English lessons.
Then she got interested in floral design. ''But everyone was getting into it
then,'' she said, ''so I decided to come to the States to study.''

She felt an especially strong connection to New York, and took an apartment in
Woodside, Queens. Like many New Yorkers, she chose her neighborhood for the
affordable rent, but she doesn't hang out there. In her free time, she wanders
around Manhattan, particularly the West Village. Her favorite New York delicacy?
The bagel, of course.

''It's hard to explain,'' Ms. Shimamoto said with a laugh as she put the
finishing touches on a birthday bouquet of yellow, salmon and spray roses. ''But
my intuition just told me that this was the right place for me to be.''

In the end, even New York may not be big enough for some Big Apple Issei. Many
aspire to become citizens of the world who can travel, work and live in a
variety of locations. They are modern people born of an extremely traditional
culture. This koan-like paradox is most clearly evident in the fact that, unlike
their predecessors, most of these young Japanese immigrants are not trying to
become United States citizens. They like being Japanese; they simply prefer to
live in New York.

So they visit Japan at least once a year. And while they admit that once there,
they again feel the claustrophobia of being in a conservative, homogeneous
culture, they also relish the comforts of the familiar in the form of family,
friends, language, food, and being around people who, unlike many New Yorkers,
go out of their way to be polite.

Q is typical in that she returns to Japan once a year. But when she describes
what she does during her stay, she sounds like the New York artist she is: ''I
just try to chill.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: PURSUING THEIR ART -- Q at work in the Times Square station,
top
Koji Toyama, a photography student, above, and Hanako Shimamoto, at Fantasia
florists. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1)
TIME FOR DINNER -- Shopping for Japanese delicacies at the Sunrise Mart.
AT A CORNER NEAR YOU -- Sayuri Tsuchitani, above, fulfills her dream of being a
hairdresser at Hair Kuwayama, on East 10th Street, just outside Little Tokyo,
where one young woman, right, enjoyed cotton candy.
 AROUND TOWN -- Young Japanese are often visible around the East Village, among
them the man playing African drum in Union Square, below. At right, St. Marks
Place, part of what is sometimes called Little Toyko. (Photographs by Chester
Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 3, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nominee Says U.S. Agents Abused Power After 9/11

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2


After the Sept. 11 attacks, federal authorities acted at times in a ''wholly
unacceptable'' way, arresting immigrants on questionable tips, not always
providing speedy access to lawyers and, in certain cases, abusing the detainees,
the nominee for homeland security secretary acknowledged on Wednesday.

''I understand it was an emotional time,'' the nominee, Michael Chertoff, who
led the criminal division of the Justice Department at the time, said at his
Senate confirmation hearing. ''But training has to be in place so people
understand that you don't give in to emotions; people are being detained not to
be mistreated or punished.''

In the weeks after the attacks, Judge Chertoff was among the proponents of a
crackdown that swept hundreds of people into detention, an approach that he
vigorously defended in Congressional testimony at the time.

The admissions came on Wednesday during a three-and-a-half-hour hearing that
ended with clear signs that Judge Chertoff, who now sits the United States Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit, would be confirmed, despite questions about
the treatment of detainees or his role in reviewing a Bush administration
memorandum related to torture.

Judge Chertoff carefully and calmly answered the questions presented to him
during a nonconfrontational hearing.

He did not repudiate the Justice Department detention policies he helped
establish. Instead he said the directives were not always carried out
appropriately.

''Dealing in a crisis, particularly an unexpected crisis, fashioning a response
with the tools that we have at hand, there are inevitably going to be
imperfections,'' he said. ''And the critical thing is to learn from things that
experience teaches us.''

The confirmation hearing served as an opportunity for members of the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee to survey the department's
shortcomings, including what they said was an irrational formula used to
distribute antiterrorism grants. They also cited insufficient progress at
protecting the nation's ports, transit systems, trains and food supply from
possible terrorist attacks. While complimenting Tom Ridge, who has stepped down
as secretary, they also called the Department of Homeland Security a
dysfunctional bureaucracy with little strategic vision.

Judge Chertoff said he would push to distribute homeland security grants based
on risk, instead of on population or even political formulas. He also said he
wanted to make information on drivers' licenses less vulnerable to forgery or
abuse and expressed a willingness to revise the department's color-coded system
of terror alerts.

The hearing was dominated by questions about Judge Chertoff's actions during his
tenure at the Department of Justice, where he served as assistant attorney
general, from June 2001 until June 2003. Judge Chertoff said that while the
arrests were made based on legitimate immigration violations, federal agents at
times might have detained immigrants based on questionable tips, held them in
jail for too long or even abused them -- accusations that were raised by a
Department of Justice inspector general.

Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said after the hearing that he was
impressed with Judge Chertoff's willingness to acknowledge that mistakes were
made, but that he still had some questions about whether the judge knew about
the abuse of terrorism suspects detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Several civil liberties groups went further, saying that Judge Chertoff's
testimony was both incomplete and misleading.

''He made no apology to the hundreds of innocent people and their families who
were jailed simply because they were Arabs or Muslims,'' said Kate Martin, a
lawyer from the Center for National Security Studies, which sued the federal
government over the arrests after Sept. 11.

Judge Chertoff acknowledged that he had reviewed a 2002 memorandum detailing
interrogation methods for terror suspects. Using a refrain that he relied upon
frequently during his testimony, he said he could not recall if the version he
read suggested that pain would need to rise to a level that might cause ''injury
such as death, organ failure, or serious impairment of bodily functions'' before
it might be defined as torture.

Judge Chertoff said that in his review of the document, he declined to offer
advice on the propriety of any particular interrogation method.

''You are dealing in an area where there's potential criminal liability,'' he
said, recalling his advice.

The hearing ended with Senator Mark Dayton, a Democrat from Minnesota who had
asked some of the most pointed questions, announcing that he would support Judge
Chertoff's nomination. A committee vote is expected on Monday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Queens: Day Workers Arrested

BYLINE: By Robert F. Worth (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 136 words


Eighteen day laborers were arrested on Wednesday morning after residents
complained that the men were creating a nuisance as they waited for work on two
street corners in Queens. The New York Civil Liberties Union expressed concern
about the arrests yesterday to the New York Police Department, saying they could
set a worrisome precedent and possibly expose the laborers, some of whom may be
illegal immigrants, to action by immigration authorities. ''We want to make sure
the Police Department is not starting a program of arresting immigrant day
laborers,'' said Christopher Dunn, the associate legal director of the Civil
Liberties Union. A police official said the laborers were mostly charged with
disorderly conduct and held for arraignment because they did not have
identification cards.   Robert F. Worth (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spanish-Language Paper

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 162 words



To the Editor:

Contrary to the suggestion of your headline ''A Texas Paper Bets on Espanol, Not
Assimilation'' (Business Day, Jan. 31), we work to help first-generation
immigrants assimilate, acculturate and make it here. Our bet is on language
dominance and preference, which is different.

Repeated studies and experience show that if the quality is acceptable, people
everywhere, including immigrants, prefer newspapers, television, movies and
music in the language in which they were raised and educated. For example,
assimilated Americans in Europe who read The International Herald Tribune are
legion.

Some two-thirds of Latino adults are first-generation immigrants, who
overwhelmingly are most comfortable in Spanish. Few will ever read an English or
a mostly English paper. But by fostering readership, we do hope that their
American-educated children might do otherwise.

Edward Schumacher Matos
Chief Exec. and Editorial Director
Rumbo Newspapers
San Antonio, Feb. 1, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 10, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kennedy Airport Is Called the Toughest for Asylum Seekers

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words


Bound for homes, hotels and frequent-flyer miles, millions of travelers stream
through Kennedy, Newark and other international airports unaware of the
life-and-death dramas unfolding steps away as federal agents try to sort out
potential terrorists from people fleeing for their lives.

But a bipartisan federal study released this week illuminates these secretive
screenings for the first time, using 1,500 hours of observation of hundreds of
cases at seven ports of entry across the country. The report, by the United
States Commission on International Religious Freedom, found extreme variation in
the handling of potential asylum cases at different airports. In large part, it
said, the chance of being granted refuge may depend on which airport an asylum
seeker uses.

And by any measure, Kennedy Airport stands apart as the toughest for asylum
seekers. It was the only airport in the nation where shackles were routinely
used, the only place where intensely personal interviews were typically
conducted at public counters, and the airport where federal border agents sent
the most people back to their home country immediately -- nearly 11,000 in a
three-year period, or five times the number sent for in-depth interviews with an
asylum officer, the report said.

In contrast, at Miami International Airport, which handled the most cases over
all, nearly 13,000 people were sent for asylum interviews between 2000 and 2003,
more than twice the number sent back overseas. The report singled out Miami
officers for praise, like one who was reassuring, helpful and ''particularly
sensitive'' to a pregnant Caribbean woman he interviewed.

The commission examined the eight-year-old system known as expedited removal,
which allows inspectors to send travelers without valid documents back home
immediately unless they express fear of returning, and to detain the others
while evaluating their claims. The system was devised by Congress to better
secure the nation's borders while still protecting people seeking refuge from
persecution.

''What they found both reassured and deeply worried the commissioners,'' said
Felice Gaer, the commission's vice chairwoman, who also represents the United
States on the United Nations Committee on Torture. ''They found a system that
could work, but that had serious flaws.''

Over all, the commission found that agents with Customs and Border Protection,
an agency within the Department of Homeland Security, frequently failed to
follow all the rules intended to make sure that immigrants were not returned to
persecution. Those sent back under expedited removal are not allowed to return
to the United States for five years.

Kristi M. Clemens, a spokeswoman for the agency, said it was examining the
commission's report. ''Expedited removal has been a very important tool to
control our borders,'' she said. ''But we agree that there needs to be a
consistent application of safeguards to protect the rights of asylum seekers.''
She added that last July, after researchers examined operations at Kennedy, the
agency issued guidelines saying that shackles should not be used routinely.

Among the cases described in the report were a dozen around the country in which
travelers spoke of a fear of being returned, but the agents filling out a
standardized form wrote incorrectly that the travelers had said they had no
fear. At George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston, for example, a woman
from Central America ''spontaneously expressed a fear of her ex-husband, crying
and asking the officer to help her,'' the report said. But when researchers
examined her file, they found that the agent had recorded the response to the
question of fear as, ''Not a real fear. My ex-husband does not like me.''

In that case, the report said, the officer refused to answer the woman's
questions, warned her repeatedly that she would be ''in trouble'' if she failed
to cooperate, and told her that she would not see her family for a long time if
she made a claim of fear. She withdrew her application.

In roughly half of all cases, the report found, officers did not read aloud the
mandatory paragraph informing foreigners of protections offered by law. In 5
percent of cases, they did not even ask if the person had a fear of returning, a
failure the study called inexplicable.

Kennedy, with five terminals, proved the hardest airport to monitor. After two
weeks, researchers gave up on observing enough interviews to show why its
results were so different from other places, said Mark Hetfield, the director of
the study, who called the airport ''logistically a nightmare.'' But he added
that the lack of privacy and discomfort of counter interviews could discourage
both a frightened foreigner and an officer from a complete exchange of
information.

Refugees like Mamoudou Keita, 33, put a more personal perspective on the issue.
Mr. Keita, who was eventually granted asylum after months in detention, said
that after fleeing political persecution in Guinea, using a purchased passport,
he spent a night in shackles at Kennedy in a brightly lighted room with 30 other
people.

"I don't feel secure in that place," he said. Of the officer who questioned him,
he added, "He tried to make you very frightened."

In general, the study found that the question-and-answer forms from the airport
interviews were ''unreliable and incomplete,'' and were often wrongly used later
by immigration judges to impeach the credibility of asylum seekers.

That finding is now part of the debate over a bill reintroduced yesterday in
Washington by Representative F. James Sensenbrenner, the Wisconsin Republican
who heads the House Judiciary Committee. Among other provisions, the bill would
give even more discretion to immigration judges to deny asylum claims on the
basis of airport interviews, without appeal.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Refuge or Rejection''People arriving at the nation's airports
without proper travel documents are either sent back and barred from returning
for five years, or interviewed to determine whether they have a credible fear of
harm in their home country. Some are given the chance to withdraw their
applications for asylum, or to leave voluntarily. Among airports with the
highest number of such arrivals, New York City sends the highest number of
people back to their countries.Data for 2000 through 2003 fiscal yearsGraph
tracks expeditiously sent back, referred for credible-fear interview and
withdrawn application figures for the following airports:MiamiNew York City
(JFK)Los AngelesAtlantaChicagoNewark(Source by United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom)(pg. B10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Paterson: Man Found Dead In Jail Cell

BYLINE: By Nina Bernstein (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 189 words


A Korean man facing deportation was found dead yesterday in an isolation cell of
the Passaic County jail, a jail official said. The man, Heq Sung Soo, 50, was
found hanging, and apparently committed suicide.

He had attempted suicide at least once before. On Jan. 14, Mr. Soo had been
brought to the county jail, where he confronted guards, banged his head and bit
himself, officials said. Three days later, he was discovered with a braided rope
made from his paper gown, and was returned to his cell naked, William J. Maer, a
jail spokesman said. On Jan. 20, he had tried to hang himself with material from
his jail mattress, Mr. Maer said. Mr. Soo was later sent to Ann Klein Forensic
hospital for evaluation but discharged after 19 days, and sent back to the
county jail, where he died less than a week later. A spokesman for Immigration
and Customs Enforcement said that Mr. Soo had been arrested for overstaying his
tourist visa, but was also a suspect in a series of sexual assaults in South
Korea. His death is under investigation by the immigration agency's inspector
general and by New Jersey authorities.   Nina Bernstein (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 17, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Deportations, Fate of Children Is Often an Afterthought

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Caught Between Parents and the
Law; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words


Ten-year-old Adnan Thakur was born and raised in Jamaica, Queens, in the kind of
immigrant family that transformed New York's neighborhoods in the 1990's. His
father, a legal permanent resident from Bangladesh, drove a cab. His mother, who
had entered the country illegally, worked as a cashier in a hardware store.
Adnan, a fifth grader at Public School 95, excelled at math and Dragon Ball Z
video games.

But one morning last fall, while Adnan and his 2-year-old sister, Rifha, were
asleep, the bottom fell out of their life in America.

In a predawn raid, immigration agents from the little-known National Fugitive
Operations Program, part of the Department of Homeland Security, took their
mother away in handcuffs on an old deportation order, to hold her in detention
until she could be sent to Bangladesh. Their father, unable to manage alone
while he worked to support the family, asked deportation officers to help him
send the children on the plane to Bangladesh along with their mother.

At Kennedy International Airport, the children waited on the plane for their
mother, Shilpi Thakur. Immigration agents drove her to the airport, but Kuwaiti
Airlines refused to let her board because the agents had not secured her a
transit visa for the flight's layover in London. As the agents drove her back to
detention in distress, the plane took off with her children, who were
accompanied only by a Bangladesh-bound colleague of their father who had
expected to put them in their mother's care.

By the time Mrs. Thakur was allowed to join them, the children had been stranded
with strangers in Bangladesh for 10 days.

''I wanted to go home to America,'' Adnan recalled in a telephone call from
Dhaka, the capital, describing his first tearful call to his father, Soyeb
Thakur, a world away in Queens. ''And my dad said, 'There's no way.'''

As the government steps up its enforcement of immigration laws, the Thakur
children's sudden journey into an alien life illustrates some of the
complications of repairing an immigration system that all sides agree is broken.
Government officials say that while they often help arrange for children who are
citizens to accompany their deported parents, they are not responsible if plans
do not work out.

About three million young American citizens have at least one parent in the
United States illegally, demographers estimate. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, an agency within Homeland Security, removed a record 157,281
foreign people from the country in the last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30.
The agency does not keep track of how many adults took along children who were
citizens. But immigration experts say that just as thousands of such children
are being left behind, thousands of others have been thrust, helter-skelter,
into foreign lives.

''We're exporting a problem, and it will come back to haunt us,'' said
Jacqueline M. Hagan, a sociologist and a co-director of the Center for
Immigration Research at the University of Houston, an advocate for immigrants.
''In the short run, it's going to be devastating for that child emotionally,
psychologically, financially. And in the long run, nobody wins from this.''

But Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, which favors restricting immigration, calls such children
''collateral damage of their parents' lawbreaking'' and of a crackdown that is
long overdue.

From the government's perspective, said Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Thakur case was a success.

''We did the part that we were responsible for,'' Mr. Van Pelt said. ''We
carried out the successful removal of a person who had violated the nation's
laws and that the court had determined had to be removed from this country.''

The case demonstrates, he added, how complicated it is to remove people like
Mrs. Thakur, who applied for political asylum in 1993, was rejected in 1997,
exhausted a series of appeals to stay in 2003, and ignored orders to leave the
country.

Mrs. Thakur, who used Shilpi as a first and last name before her marriage, said
she tried to follow the path used for decades by immigrant New Yorkers who
arrived first and were granted legal status later.

She paid Social Security taxes for years while she worked at Metropolitan Lumber
and Hardware in Jamaica, and she carried a New York State driver's license with
her correct address. She tried to gain legal status based on her marriage to Mr.
Thakur, who had won a green card in 2001 through the diversity lottery. But the
judge who ordered her removed called the effort part of ''years of fraud and
deception.''

With a mission to shrink a national backlog of nearly 400,000 unenforced
deportation and removal orders, the National Fugitive Operations Program, also
known as the Absconder Initiative, was started in 2003 with 18 teams nationwide,
including one in New York. The program, part of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, is seeking to expand to 30 teams.

The agency showcases arrests of ''sexual predators'' and drug dealers, and
stresses that because it has resources to arrest only about 35 people a day
nationwide, its priority is hunting down the most dangerous. Yet many, if not
most, of those seized in the fugitive team's predawn raids in New York, like
Mrs. Thakur, have no criminal record.

Mr. Van Pelt dismissed the distinction between felons on the run and ordinary
people who had dodged deportation and put down roots. ''As far as this agency
goes, when the court issues an order, it doesn't matter who that person is,'' he
said.

As a practical matter, he acknowledged, it may be harder to locate those with a
criminal past. When agents plan a raid on the last known address of a felon, he
said, efficiency dictates that they come prepared to apprehend others with
outstanding deportation orders who live nearby.

Typically, the information comes from eight databases of about 26 billion
electronic records at a support center in Williston, Vt.

When the fugitive team stepped over the Thakurs' threshold, normal life
unraveled. Sitting in the dismantled family apartment in Queens recently like a
man in a shipwreck, Mr. Thakur, 44, recalled pleading with the agents as they
arrested his wife.

''I said, 'She has two children -- one is 10 years old, one is 2 years. Please,
what is going to happen to them?''' The answer, as he remembers it: ''We don't
know, 9/11 changed everything.''

Since children who are citizens are outside the scope of official duties, it is
easy for them to fall through the cracks during a deportation, said Rosa
Barreca, who worked as a deportation officer from 1996 to 2000 for what was then
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''Sure, we'll see more of it,'' added Ms. Barreca, 30, now a law student and a
recent intern with American Friends Service Committee, a charitable and advocacy
group that has addressed the issue of immigrant detainees. ''The laws to begin
with are restrictive, so you have lots of breaking up of families.''

Missing travel documents, missed flights and multiple trips to the airport are
commonplace, in part because the number of deportation officers has not kept
pace with arrests, detentions or demands by foreign governments for transit
visas, according to advocates for immigrant detainees. More important, they
contend, is lack of public accountability.

''Nobody's watching what they're doing,'' said Bryan Lonegan, an immigration
lawyer with the Legal Aid Society. ''They're given tremendous authority and at
the same time, no authority.''

In the Thakur case, the father said he only learned that his wife had not been
put on the plane when Adnan called, crying, from Kuwait City the next day.

Mrs. Thakur said she had been unable to alert her husband from the detention
center in Elizabeth, N.J., because she was not allowed to make a phone call.

''In center, I'm mad and crying,'' she said in halting English on the telephone
from Dhaka. ''My two children going far away. Who take care of my two kids? One
officer is coming: 'Unfortunately this very sad, but we don't have anything we
can do.'''

In a telephone interview last week, after his worried father joined the family
for a visit, Adnan said he had no friends in Bangladesh.

''I can't speak Bangla, so my school is hard for me,'' he said. ''There's no
park or playgrounds, and I'm scared to go out.''

His mother says she tells him, ''You just got to grow up, my son. Maybe one day
coming, you go back.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shilpi Thakur in Dhaka, Bangladesh, with Adnan, 10, and Rifha,
2. The children, born in Queens, were sent there by their father but were
stranded for 10 days while Mrs. Thakur was detained during deportation
proceedings. (Photo by Syed Zakir Hossain for The New York Times)
Soyeb Thakur in the Queens apartment where his family lived until his wife was
deported to Bangladesh. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Adnan Thakur in Dhaka, Bangladesh, where he now lives with his mother, who was
deported from America, and his sister. (Photo by Syed Zakir Hossain for The New
York Times)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Voters Defy Political Patterns

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 524 words


First-time immigrant voters streamed to the polls in New York City last
November, accounting for almost the entire increase in turnout, or 185,000
votes, a new study has found. And in many ways they defied traditional political
patterns.

More than 18 percent of the new voters chose President Bush, compared with 15
percent of the native-born voters. And more than 12 percent said they were
registered Republicans, compared with fewer than 10 percent of native New York
voters.

''If this trend continues -- immigrant voters moving into the electorate more
rapidly than the native-born -- politics in New York will be reshaped by
immigrants in the electorate,'' said Lorraine C. Minnite, a political scientist
at Barnard College who directed the study, conducted with the help of the New
York Immigration Coalition of Barnard and Columbia University. The study,
released yesterday, was based on three exit polls over the last four years.

Nearly one in three New York voters is now foreign-born, Dr. Minnite estimated,
and though over all they supported Democrats over Republicans, immigrant voters
showed slightly more willingness to register and vote Republican than their
native-born counterparts.

In the 2002 governor's race, nearly half -- 47 percent -- voted for George E.
Pataki, compared with 32 percent of native-born New York City voters.

Since most traditional exit polls do not ask about birthplace, the combined
samples provide a rare demographic portrait of immigrant voters, as well as a
glimpse of differences by national origin. President Bush, for example, did best
among Russian and Chinese immigrants, while getting only a fraction of votes
from Dominican or Jamaican immigrants.

The new voters are more likely than native-born voters to be women, married and
have a child under 18.

Yet despite their growing numerical importance, they were less likely to have
been contacted about their vote before the election by party organizations,
unions or friends.

''They're not in the mix, they're not on the list, they've moved three times,
perhaps, or they haven't given enough money,'' Dr. Minnite suggested.

Margie McHugh, executive director of the Immigration Coalition, said the numbers
showed the effects of the voter registration and mobilization efforts by many
community groups last year. Noting that several recent elections have turned on
50,000 votes or fewer, she added, ''We really see a payoff for all the work
we've been doing.''

Asked the top three issues that mattered most in voting for president last year,
immigrant voters in the city gave rankings similar to those of their native-born
counterparts -- jobs and the economy, the Iraq war and health care -- but about
a quarter included immigration, compared with fewer than 6 percent of the native
born. They were more likely to list health care or housing as the most important
state issue, and they supported driver's licenses for noncitizens by more than
62 percent, compared with 52 percent among the native born.

The sampling was constructed with help from John Mollenkopf, director of the
Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Foreign-Born City Voters''The New Americans Exit Poll, a
project by the New York Immigration Coalition, was conducted during the 2000,
2002 and 2004 general elections and designed to improve understanding of New
York City's foreign-born electorate. Here are some of the study's
findings.Demographics (Based on the 2004 presidential
election.)RACE/ETHNICITYForeign-BornWHITE: 20%BLACK: 23HISPANIC: 33ASIAN:
17OTHER: 6Native-BornWHITE: 43%BLACK: 30HISPANIC: 20ASIAN: 3OTHER: 4FAMILY
INCOMEForeign-BornLESS THAN $15,000: 25%$15,000 TO $49,999: 46$50,000 TO
$99,999: 22$100,000 OR MORE: 7Native-BornLESS THAN $15,000: 10%$15,000 TO
$49,999: 43$50,000 TO $99,999: 33$100,000 OR MORE: 14Totals may not add to 100
because of rounding.How They Voted (Combining the 2000 and 2004 presidential
elections.)VOTERS FROM CHINAAL GORE/JOHN KERRY: 71%GEORGE W. BUSH: 26FROM
JAMAICAAL GORE/JOHN KERRY: 94%GEORGE W. BUSH: 3FROM RUSSIAAL GORE/JOHN KERRY:
58%GEORGE W. BUSH: 42Those voting for ''other'' not shown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Blocks Crackdown On Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 680 words


A judge ordered yesterday that the state stop taking away the driver's licenses
of immigrants in New York who do not have Social Security cards, saying that the
Department of Motor Vehicles is not authorized to enforce immigration law or to
make new rules without public notice.

The department began a license crackdown last year that was expected to result
in the loss of driving privileges for as many as 300,000 immigrants in New York
State this year and has already led to the suspension of about 7,000 licenses.

The order by Justice Karen Black of State Supreme Court in Manhattan was
temporary, but lawyers on both sides said it reflected her preliminary opinion
that immigrant drivers would suffer irreparable harm unless the crackdown was
stopped while the court considers a class-action lawsuit brought on their
behalf, and that the immigrants' suit was likely to prevail.

It was filed last summer against Gov. George E. Pataki and Raymond Martinez, the
motor vehicles commissioner, by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund. It was brought on behalf of New Yorkers who have been denied a driver's
license or identity card for lack of a verifiable Social Security number or an
immigration document satisfactory to the Department of Motor Vehicles.

''We think this is a clear victory for the immigrant community, that they are
entitled to the same licenses as any other resident of the state,'' said Foster
S. Maer, one of the lawyers for the plaintiffs. ''The court found that the state
can't just arbitrarily cut off the driver's licenses for the immigrants of the
state. They had done it secretly without any notice.''

Elizabeth Forman, an assistant state attorney general representing the
government, said no decision had been made about whether to appeal the order,
which temporarily bars the state from denying the renewal of licenses because of
immigration status, but does not affect its handling of new license
applications.

The judge's order also requires the state to give the plaintiffs 48 hours'
notice before sending out letters suspending the licenses of tens of thousands
of other drivers. As a practical matter, no more suspensions are likely to occur
until after hearing April 7 on the plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary
injunction.

Among those who sued the state are a 60-year-old licensed asbestos remover who
worked in the World Trade Center cleanup, a teenage refugee from Albania, and
the Irish father of an American-born infant who needs to be driven to medical
treatment for her seizures.

Most are in the country without legal authorization, the court papers say, but
two who are in the United States legally also were denied licenses by clerks
without notice or chance for redress, the lawsuit said.

New York is among a dozen states that by law do not limit driver's licenses to
legal residents. In the mid-1990's, to improve child-support enforcement, New
York, like most states, added a requirement that license applicants provide a
Social Security number.

Then two years ago, the state began requiring an original Social Security card
for new license applicants, and last year began warning drivers that it would
rescind the licenses for drivers who supplied a number that did not match Social
Security records. State officials said the actions were taken to combat fraud
and terrorism.

The actions were not explicitly authorized by the Legislature, a point stressed
by the plaintiffs.

Two of the plaintiffs have a legal right to live and work in the United States,
but even their status was insufficient to satisfy the state. Maria Cubas, 42, a
Honduran factory worker who lives in the Bronx, is allowed to stay and work in
the United States under temporary protected status granted after a hurricane.
But Ms. Cubas was denied a learner's permit because her work authorization's
expiration date left her two days short of the six months' validity the
Department of Motor Vehicles now requires, although that document will be
automatically renewed.

A spokesman said the department had not reviewed the judge's decision yet.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2005



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about a judge's order halting New York State's
denial of driver's licenses for noncitizens who lack Social Security cards
misstated the surname of the judge. She is Karen S. Smith, an acting justice of
the State Supreme Court, not Karen Black.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 21, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Africans Enter U.S. Than in Days of Slavery

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1980 words


For the first time, more blacks are coming to the United States from Africa than
during the slave trade.

Since 1990, according to immigration figures, more have arrived voluntarily than
the total who disembarked in chains before the United States outlawed
international slave trafficking in 1807. More have been coming here annually --
about 50,000 legal immigrants -- than in any of the peak years of the middle
passage across the Atlantic, and more have migrated here from Africa since 1990
than in nearly the entire preceding two centuries.

New York State draws the most; Nigeria and Ghana are among the top 20 sources of
immigrants to New York City. But many have moved to metropolitan Washington,
Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, Boston and Houston. Pockets of refugees,
especially Somalis, have found havens in Minnesota, Maine and Oregon.

The movement is still a trickle compared with the number of newcomers from Latin
America and Asia, but it is already redefining what it means to be
African-American. The steady decline in the percentage of African-Americans with
ancestors who suffered directly through the middle passage and Jim Crow is also
shaping the debate over affirmative action, diversity programs and other
initiatives intended to redress the legacy of slavery.

In Africa, the flow is contributing to a brain drain. But at the same time,
African-born residents of the United States are sharing their relative
prosperity here by sending more than $1 billion annually back to their families
and friends.

''Basically, people are coming to reclaim the wealth that's been taken from
their countries,'' said Howard Dodson, director of the Schomburg Center for
Research in Black Culture, in Harlem, which has just inaugurated an exhibition,
Web site and book, titled ''In Motion,'' to commemorate the African diaspora.

The influx has other potential implications, from recalibrating the largely
monolithic way white America views blacks to raising concerns that American-born
blacks will again be left behind.

''Historically, every immigrant group has jumped over American-born blacks,''
said Eric Foner, the Columbia University historian. ''The final irony would be
if African immigrants did, too.''

The flow from Africa began in the 1970's, mostly with refugees from Ethiopia and
Somalia, and escalated in the 1990's, when the number of black residents of the
United States born in sub-Saharan Africa nearly tripled. Combined with the much
larger flow of Caribbean blacks, the recent arrivals from Africa accounted for
about 25 percent of black population growth in the United States over all during
the decade. Nationally, the proportion of blacks who are foreign born rose to
about 7.3 percent from 4.9 percent in the 1990's. In New York City, about 1 in 3
blacks are foreign born.

According to the census, the proportion of black people living in the United
States who describe themselves as African-born, while still small, more than
doubled in the 1990's, to 1.7 percent from about 0.8 percent, for a total
estimated conservatively at more than 600,000. About 1.7 million United States
residents identify their ancestry as sub-Saharan.

Those numbers reflect only legal immigrants, who have been arriving at the rate
of about 50,000 a year, first mostly as refugees and students and more recently
through family reunification and diversity visas. Many speak English, were
raised in large cities and capitalist economies, live in families headed by
married couples and are generally more highly educated and have higher-paying
jobs than American-born blacks.

There is no official count of the many others who entered the country illegally
or have overstayed their visas and who are likely to be less well off.

Kim Nichols, co-executive director of the African Services Committee, which
directs newcomers to health care, housing and other services in the New York
region, estimates that the number of illegal African immigrants dwarfs the legal
ones. ''We think it's a multiple of at least four,'' she said.

Africans' reasons for coming echo the aspirations of earlier immigrants.

''Senegal became too small,'' said Marie Lopy, who arrived as a student in 1996,
worked as a bookkeeper in a restaurant and earned an associate degree in biology
from the City University of New York.

After winning a place in an American immigration lottery that his secretary had
entered for him in 1994, Daouda Ndiaye recalls being persuaded by his six
children to leave Senegal, where he was working as a financial manager. ''I
said, 'I'm 45, I'd have to build a whole new life, I'd have to go to school to
learn English,''' he recalled. ''They said, 'We want you to go and we want you
to send for us because there's more opportunity in the U.S. than here.'''

His wife and two of his children have joined him in the United States, where he
has worked as a sporting goods store manager and is now a translator.

That the latest movement of black Africans arriving voluntarily surpasses the
total who disembarked in chains before the United States outlawed international
slave trafficking is a bit of a statistical anomaly. That total, most historians
now agree, was about 500,000, with an annual peak of perhaps 30,000, compared
with the millions overall who were sold into slavery from Africa. Many died
aboard ship. Most were transported to the Caribbean and Brazil, where they were
vulnerable to indigenous diseases and to the rigors of raising sugar cane, which
was harder to cultivate than cotton or rice, the predominant crops on
plantations in the United States, where the slave population was better able to
survive and reproduce.

Moreover, black Africans represented a much higher proportion of the population
then than they do today. In 1800, about 20 percent of the 5 million or so people
in the United States were black. Among nearly 300 million Americans today, about
13 percent are black.

Still, with Europe increasingly inhospitable and much of Africa still suffering
from the ravages of drought and the AIDS epidemic and the vagaries of economic
mismanagement, the number migrating to the United States is growing -- despite
the reluctance of some Africans to come face to face with the effects of
centuries of enduring discrimination.

In the 1960's, 28,954 legal immigrants were admitted from all of Africa, a
figure that rose geometrically to 80,779 in the 1970's, 176,893 in the 1980's
and 354,939 in the 1990's. In 2002, 60,269 were admitted, including 8,291 from
Nigeria, 7,574 from Ethiopia, 4,537 from Somalia, 4,256 from Ghana and 3,207
from Kenya.

To many Americans, the most visible signs of the movement are the proliferation
of African churches, mosques, hair-braiding salons, street vendors and
supermarket deliverymen, the controversy over female genital mutilation and the
election last year of Barack Obama, son of a native Kenyan, to the United States
Senate from Illinois. Especially in New York City, the shooting deaths of two
unarmed African immigrants, Amadou Diallo from Guinea in 1999 and Ousmane Zongo
from Burkina Faso in 2003, come to mind.

Immigrants arrive with their own perceptions and expectations, from countries
where blacks constitute a majority at every level of society, only to discover
that whether they are professors or peddlers, they may be lumped together here
by whites and even by American-born blacks.

''You have the positive impact that race is not seen to be an absolute definer
of people's opportunities,'' Kathleen Newland, director of the Migration Policy
Institute, a nonpartisan research group, said, ''but that begs the larger
question of what does it mean to have a black skin in the United States.''

Agba Mangalabou, who arrived from Togo in 2002, recalls his surprise when he
moved here from Europe. ''In Germany, everyone knew I was African,'' he said.
''Here, nobody knows if I'm African or American.''

Ms. Lopy, who now works as a medical interpreter for the African Services
Committee, describes herself as ''African, first and foremost,'' though the
identity of her children will depend on whom she marries and where. ''I'll raise
them to be African-something,'' she said, ''but ultimately they'll define it for
themselves.''

Sylviane A. Diouf, a historian and researcher at the New York Public Library's
Schomburg Center and Dr. Dodson's co-author of ''In Motion,'' said that
Americans have a more positive view of immigrants in general than they do of
American-born blacks. Referring to African immigrants, she said: ''They are
better educated, they're here to work, to prosper, they're more compliant and
don't pose a threat.''

Dr. Dodson added, ''They're not politically mobilized as yet and not as closely
tied to the African-American agenda.''

While the ancestors of most Caribbean-born blacks were enslaved, and slavery
also victimized the forbears of many African-born blacks, the growing proportion
of immigrants may further complicate the debate over programs envisioned to
redress the legacies of slavery.

''I think there is a legitimate set of specific claims by persons born in the
United States that don't necessarily apply to Caribbean or African populations
that have come here subsequently,'' Dr. Dodson said.

''African-born and Caribbean-born brothers and sisters have realized that the
police don't discriminate on the basis of nationality -- ask Amadou Diallo,''
said Professor Charles J. Ogletree Jr., who teaches at Harvard Law School and
has warned colleges and universities that admitting mostly foreign-born blacks
to meet the goals of affirmative action is insufficient.

''Whether you are from Brazil or from Cuba, you are still products of slavery,''
he continued. ''But the threshold is that people of African descent who were
born and raised and suffered in America have to be the first among equals.''

French-speaking Haitians do not necessarily mix with English-speaking West
Indians, much less with Africans, and competition for jobs has been another
source of tension.

''The Africans tend to be quite industrious and entrepreneurial and often take
advantage of opportunities that might have been here for others before,'' said
Kim Nichols of the African Services Committee.

''We're talking about very profoundly different cultures,'' Kathleen Newland
said.

Analyses by the Department of City Planning, and by the Lewis Mumford Center for
Comparative Urban and Regional Research, in Albany found recent immigrants often
segregated from other blacks. The census found Nigerian clusters in Flatlands
and Canarsie in Brooklyn and Ghanaians in Morris Heights and High Bridge in the
Bronx.

''As with European ethnics at the turn of the century,'' Joseph J. Salvo, the
director of the population division of the Department of City Planning, and Arun
Peter Lobo, the deputy director, wrote recently, ''ethnicity has been a powerful
force in shaping black residential settlement in New York.''

Immigration may also shift some of the nation's focus from racial distinctions
to ethnic ones. ''Certainly, South Africa showed us that minority status does
not necessarily correlate to one's position in society, but rather that power
and its uses are the issues,'' said Samuel K. Roberts of Columbia, a history
professor who is also on the faculty of the university's Institute for Research
in African-American Studies. ''That being said, increasingly distinguishing
between black Americans and black Africans may produce conditions in which we
will be less prone to think of a fictional construct of 'race' as the
distinguishing factor among all of us in North America.''

How long might those distinctions last? ''I guess one of the questions will have
to be what happens in the next generation or two,'' said Professor Foner of
Columbia. ''In America, marriage is the great solvent. Are they going to melt
into the African-American population? Most likely yes.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ajah Fatou Camara at the Joloff restaurant in Brooklyn, which
serves West African food
she is the mother of the owners, who are from Senegal. (Photo by Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times)
Daouda Ndiaye, from Senegal, has worked here for 13 years and is now a
translator. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 The Senegalese Fashion Center on Fulton Street in Brooklyn is run by Abdou
Diop, a Senegalese immigrant. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times(pg.
A1)Chart: ''Out of Africa''According to the 2000 census, the proportion of black
Americans who describe themselves as African-born more than doubled in the
1990's.UNITED STATES BLACK POPULATION1990AMERICAN BORN: 28,034,2752000AMERICAN
BORN: 33,048,095% OF BLACK POPULATION1990: 96%2000: 941990-2000 GROWTH:
+18%1990CARIBBEAN BORN: 924,6932000CARIBBEAN BORN: 1,542,895% OF BLACK
POPULATION1990: 32000: 41990-2000 GROWTH: +671990AFRICAN BORN:
229,4882000AFRICAN BORN: 612,548% OF BLACK POPULATION1990: 12000: 21990-2000
GROWTH: +167Metropolitan areas with the largest black African-born
populationsWashington1990: 32,2482000: 80,2811990-2000 GROWTH: +149New York1990:
31,5322000: 73,8511990-2000 GROWTH: +134Atlanta1990: 8,9192000: 34,3021990-2000
GROWTH: +285Minneapolis-St. Paul1990: 3,7882000: 27,5921990-2000 GROWTH: +628Los
Angeles1990: 16,8262000: 25,8291990-2000 GROWTH: +54Boston1990: 11,9892000:
24,2311990-2000 GROWTH: +102Houston1990: 9,8822000: 22,6381990-2000 GROWTH:
+129Chicago1990: 8,7382000: 19,4381990-2000 GROWTH: +122Dallas1990: 7,3732000:
19,1341990-2000 GROWTH: +160Philadelphia1990: 5,0982000: 16,3441990-2000 GROWTH:
+221Largest black African-born populations in the U.S. by countries of
birthNigeria1980: 22,1011990: 51,0372000: 109,198Ghana1980: 7,0231990:
17,7512000: 50,649Ethiopia1980: 4,8701990: 30,9572000: 47,791Liberia1980:
2,3201990: 8,4962000: 30,577Somalia1980: 2821990: 1,3712000: 22,646Kenya1980:
1,8601990: 5,5712000: 21,576Map of Africa highlighting Ethiopia, Ghana, Liberia,
Somalia, Nigeria, Kenya.(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 22, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Midwest: Illinois: $3 Million Citizenship Program

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 146 words


The state has begun a $3 million program to help legal immigrants become United
States citizens. Forty-eight private agencies, mostly in Cook County and Chicago
suburbs, will receive state money from the New Americans Initiative to reach out
to immigrants and help them apply for citizenship. The agencies will receive
$2.35 million this fiscal year to provide English classes and citizenship
classes and legal counseling, a spokesman said. The rest of the money is to
advertise on television in Chinese, Korean, Polish and Spanish; a Web site; and
developing a database. Of the 1.5 million immigrants in Illinois, 600,000, or 40
percent, are American citizens, organizers said. About 340,000 legal immigrants
in Illinois were eligible for citizenship in 2002 and did not have it. The
organizers said they hoped to help 20,000 immigrants a year over three years
obtain citizenship.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 23, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico's Migrants Profit From Dollars Sent Home

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2756 words

DATELINE: VALPARAISO, Mexico, Feb. 22


Less than two months after he was elected, Mayor Alberto Ruiz Flores climbed in
his truck and set out on a 26-hour road trip across the border to Southern
California, carrying a wish list of public works projects to a backyard barbecue
in Oxnard.

The reason? To solicit money from some of the 400,000 Mexicans who abandon their
country each year for work in the United States, including half his town in
Central Mexico. Those who have left Valparaiso send home an estimated $100,000 a
day, as much money in one month as the municipality will spend all year.

A week later, Mr. Ruiz was at a restaurant in Aurora, Ill., for a meeting with a
Mexican factory worker and billboard painter who has raised hundreds of
thousands of dollars for Valparaiso. The week after that, he invited migrant
leaders from Dallas and Las Vegas to join him at home for the annual crowning of
the municipal beauty queen.

''I consider myself the mayor of Valparaiso, and the mayor to those, like you,
who had to leave Valparaiso in search of a decent life,'' Mr. Ruiz said at the
start of each encounter. ''You have shown with your generosity that you are
still a part of Mexico. Without you, who knows where we would be.''

For Mr. Ruiz, politics does not stop at the United States border. The same is
true across Mexico, the Caribbean and Latin America, where more and more
officials like him answer to cross-border constituencies made up of the people
at home who cast ballots and the ones abroad who pull the purse strings.

Today more than ever, the remittances sent home by immigrant workers, both legal
and illegal, are translating into political clout, and their communities in the
United States, better organized and more vocal than before, have become social
and political forces too important to ignore.

It is a phenomenon that has made Washington a principal battleground to lobby
support among Salvadorans for the Central American Free Trade Agreement; New
York a crucial state in elections in the Dominican Republic, which allows its
citizens to vote from the United States; and Chicago a mandatory campaign stop
for Mexican politicians.

On Tuesday, in Mexico City, migrant power was further consolidated when the
lower Chamber of Deputies passed legislation allowing the migrants to cast
absentee ballots from the United States, which will allow Mexicans with American
citizenship to vote in both places.

The measure opens the way for an estimated 10 million Mexicans and
Mexican-Americans to vote in presidential elections next year, in a potential
tidal wave that could have significant impact on this country's fledgling
democracy. Other countries including Venezuela, Colombia, Brazil and Honduras
also allow their migrants to cast absentee ballots.

For Mexico, the logistics of the huge endeavor remain unclear; legislators
estimated that operating polls in the United States could cost at least $50
million. The measure, which was passed by an overwhelming majority and is
expected to win easy passage by the Senate, also provides money for Mexican
political parties to campaign in the United States. However, it prohibits them
from receiving foreign campaign donations.

Already, the economic influence of the migrants is undeniable. The
Inter-American Development Bank estimates that migrants sent more than $45
billion to Latin America and the Caribbean last year, exceeding foreign
investment and official development assistance for the third year in a row.

Mexico -- where people compete with oil as the country's chief export --
received some $17 billion in remittances, almost twice the amount of just four
years ago.

Oscar Chacon, of the immigrant advocacy group Enlaces America, calls the
phenomenon a quiet revolution led by an expanding network of more than 500 mom
and pop organizations that are filling in where more than a decade of free trade
and foreign investment has failed to narrow the gap between the rich and poor.

Today those immigrant groups are using the power that comes with their
remittances to place ever greater demands on politicians at all levels. Their
leaders have met with advisers to President Bush to push for sweeping
immigration reform, and with presidents across Latin America to demand
everything from the power to cast absentee ballots and run for office in their
homelands, to universal health insurance and college scholarships.

''Once the voices of immigrants were weak,'' said Efrain Jimenez, a former auto
mechanic who now oversees multimillion-dollar infrastructure projects in
Zacatecas, financed by immigrants in California. ''We had money, but we had no
organizations.

''Now we have hundreds of organizations,'' he said. ''No president can ignore
us.''

So far, migrants have lost more of those political battles than they have won,
especially in the United States, where Mr. Bush's plans have stalled for a guest
worker program. It would offer temporary legal status to an estimated three
million Mexican laborers.

Still, says Mr. Chacon, migrants are raising money for public works, forming
political action committees to support candidates at home and, in small but
growing numbers, returning home to run for public office themselves.

Some are serving as mayors, city council members and state legislators, bringing
fresh perspective and ideas from their time spent in the United States and new
demands for accountability from governments long regarded as corrupt or
ineffective.

Like Mexico, most countries prohibit political parties from receiving foreign
campaign donations. But in recent years, migrants in the United States have
formed political action committees to sponsor campaign trips to America for
candidates from their home countries. And they send delegations of campaign
workers back home to help candidates press the pavement, more and more of which
they have paid for.

Few places understand the changes better than Zacatecas, the Central Mexican
state where Mr. Ruiz serves as mayor. More than a century of migration has
inextricably linked Zacatecas to the United States. Today more than half of the
state's people live north of the border, mostly in California, Illinois and
Texas.

The Political Process Expands

 While the rest of Mexico debates whether to give migrants the power to cast
absentee ballots, Zacatecas is already allowing its migrants to come home and
run for office.

Two migrants, including Andres Bermudez, a wealthy California grower known as
the Tomato King, won mayoral races. Two other immigrants won seats in the state
legislature.

The governor of Zacatecas, Amalia Garcia, has traveled to the United States at
least four times since she was inaugurated in September. She spent a weekend in
November in Los Angeles, listening to migrant complaints at the Mexican
Consulate, discussing investment opportunities with Mexican business leaders,
and helping to crown the new Miss Zacatecas at the annual Zacatecano Ball.

When asked during her whirlwind visit to explain why she gives so much attention
to Mexicans thousands of miles away, Ms. Garcia said: ''I consider Zacatecas as
a binational state. Although the reasons our people have migrated are painful,
these people have guaranteed our social stability.''

Southern California is the capital of the Mexican diaspora, and a hotbed of
Mexican politics, led by the Federation of Zacatecan Clubs and men like
Guadalupe Gomez.

The federation meets in a drab gray building in the City Terrace section of East
Los Angeles that looks more like an abandoned warehouse than a transnational
seat of power. And its leaders are auto mechanics, postal workers, hospital
administrators, real estate agents and tax consultants.

Nearly everybody who wants to be anybody in Zacatecan politics has walked
through its doors. Presidential agreements have been signed there. Political
campaigns have been started.

The federation proclaims that it is apolitical. But it is precisely its close
ties to the government of Zacatecas that have helped it grow out of its members'
garages into one of the most successful migrant fund-raising groups in the
United States -- and helped men like Mr. Gomez change from a mild-mannered tax
consultant to a high-powered, cross-border political operative.

Today in his lobbying efforts, he rubs shoulders with President Fox as well as
President Bush. To spend time with the 44-year-old father of four is to glimpse
a world without borders, where Spanglish is the first language.

One day he is in Los Angeles addressing a ballroom full of Guatemalan mayors
seeking his advice on how to get their own migrants to invest in public works
projects back home. The next, he is giving the same advice to a room full of
Mexican mayors in Zacatecas.

In 1998, Mr. Gomez established a migrant political action committee that was key
to electing the first opposition governor of Zacatecas, helping the state break
free of nearly seven decades of authoritarian rule by the Institutional
Revolutionary Party. Two years later he helped Mr. Fox win the support of
Mexican migrants in his historic bid to become this country's first
democratically elected opposition president.

In an agreement negotiated by Mr. Gomez and other federation leaders, every
dollar sent home was matched by three more dollars from the local, state and
federal governments in a program called Tres por Uno, or Three for One.

Mr. Gomez then negotiated with President Fox to nationalize the program. For the
first time, Mexican migrants were not only sending money home, but also had a
say in how the money was spent.

''We do not want anyone deciding for us what our communities need,'' Mr. Gomez
said. ''We are not going to Mexico asking for help. We are offering help. We
want to play a key role in the future.

''If Mexico is ever going to get out of the third world,'' he said, ''then we
need to be a part of that.''

Balancing Needs and Wants

 All it takes is one night at a federation meeting to understand that the
relationship between Mexican elected officials and the migrants is not all love
and happiness. Negotiations are far from easy.

The street outside at a recent meeting was packed with sport utility vehicles.
Inside, the meeting hall looked like a small sea of cowboy hats. Seated on the
dais was a federal senator, two state legislators and at least seven members of
Governor Garcia's cabinet, including the ministers of economic development and
agricultural industry, and the director of migrant affairs.

In the audience sat at least 16 mayors from municipalities across Zacatecas.
Each one got up to address the crowd. And they seemed to have one common plea.

''Many clubs have come to us offering to build rodeo arenas or to renovate
churches in areas that do not have electricity or potable water,'' said Mayor
Rodolfo Monreal of the municipality of Fresnillo. ''We are asking you to
consider projects with greater social impact.

''I understand that the migrants should have a voice in what we do in Mexico,''
he went on. ''But we know better than anybody what our communities need, and
those needs should come first.''

The room began to grumble. Some of the migrant leaders whispered that the mayors
did not care so much about ''projects with greater social impact'' as they did
about projects aimed at making the government look good to voters.

Other mayors argued back that the migrants had fallen out of touch with Mexican
realities, and that they wanted to remake Mexico in the image of the United
States.

''The migrants want to have here the lives they have over there,'' Mr. Monreal
said. ''They do not listen to what we want.''

Mr. Jimenez, who manages the federation's public works spending, stepped to the
microphone with a diplomat's demeanor. It is true, he told the mayors, that
migrants might start out renovating churches. Many of them want to show thanks
to God for their success in the United States.

But if local authorities support their churches, the migrants will come around
and support local authorities to build roads and schools and clinics.

Mr. Gomez watched from the back of the room. He said he had been listening to
this debate since the federation began. For a while, he said, the staunchly
secular government refused to contribute public funds to help renovate churches
-- almost all of them Roman Catholic -- or build recreation facilities.

But when migrants threatened to withdraw from Tres por Uno, the government
relented, and in the last four years it has helped renovate more than 100
churches in Zacatecas alone.

''Those are the projects that inspired us to organize,'' Mr. Gomez said. ''And
if the government says no to what we want, then we are not going to support the
projects the government wants.''

Hardships and Homecomings

 Christmas in Valparaiso is one of the best times and places to get a look at
what drives immigrant politics, and at the hardships and homecomings that make
this cross-border phenomenon what it is.

In November, villages like Boquilla del Refugio were almost empty. By the first
weekend of December, they had come back to life as immigrants came home from the
United States for the holiday.

Lights turned on in houses that are vacant the rest of the year. Expensive sport
utility vehicles with license plates from Arizona, Oklahoma, Colorado, Texas,
California and Illinois roared through the streets. Local stores extended their
hours and doubled their prices.

Lines of people wearing American-style T-shirts and baseball caps crawled up the
aisles of a nearby chapel and the walls around the sanctuary were sprinkled with
photos of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans in the United States armed forces, who
had returned safely from duty in Iraq.

Almost every night there was a dance, flowing with beer and tequila. And when
there was no dance, the immigrants hired street musicians to follow them as they
paraded, swigging tequila, through town.

There were success stories among the throngs who had come home. Roman Cabral,
the state legislator from Valparaiso, lived 30 years in California and Oregon.
He started out as a dishwasher, and when he left last year to run for office, he
was earning millions from his construction company and used-car lots.

But more common were men like the president of the hometown club from Boquilla
del Refugio, a 54-year-old metal worker named Rosendo Rivera. The club was
started by a dozen working-class immigrants in the Chicago area, and in the last
three years it has raised more than $350,000 for projects in a town where the
population has dropped to nearly 600 people from 2,000.

In Aurora, Mr. Rivera lives a working-class life, supplementing the income from
his factory job by selling expensive cowboy attire. In Boquilla del Refugio, he
is received like a hero.

Mayor Ruiz said: ''If you listen to the migrants, all you will hear are success
stories. They never talk about how hard their lives are in the United States.
All of them say they have made it, and they spend money as if they are rich.

''So people here admire them,'' Mr. Ruiz said. ''They have tremendous
influence.''

But after decades of watching the phenomenon up close, Mr. Ruiz said he saw
immigrants and their remittances as more of a mixed blessing.

The more people go, the more money flows back. But the more money that flows
back, the more people go. And once everyone is gone, he said, immigrants will
not have any reason to send more money.

There are already places in Zacatecas, he said, where remittances have peaked
and are beginning to decline. Boquilla del Refugio seems headed toward the same
fate. Florencio Herrera, treasurer of the village's hometown association and a
resident of Elgin, Ill., says the elementary school buses in children from other
communities so the government will keep it open. There are so few people left to
worship in the village's church, lovingly renovated with remittances from the
United States, that Mr. Herrera calls it an ''empty palace.''

Still, the club raises money. On the first Saturday night of December, it held a
dance that would help pay to install a sewage system in Boquilla del Refugio.

When asked why he keeps raising money for a ghost town, Mr. Rivera seems stuck
at first for an answer.

''I ask myself that sometimes,'' he said. ''I guess because I lived here and
suffered here, and I want to make things better. But no matter how much we try
to make things better, it's not going to stop people from leaving.''

''I guess it's just a matter of pride,'' he concluded. ''It's our way of making
something of ourselves, and making a difference in the world.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: BACK HOME -- Remittances sent to Zacatecas State have financed
the building and renovation of places including a rodeo arena in Valparaiso,
left
a church in Boquilla del Refugio, center
and a health clinic in Mala Noche.
ON THE ROAD -- Mayor Alberto Ruiz Flores of Valparaiso, left, at a meeting in
Oxnard, Calif., with migrants from Zacatecas. (Photographs by Luis J. Jimenez
for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Drawing (Drawing by Lalena Fisher/The New York
Times)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''A Step Up on Both Sides''Some of the money Mexican
immigrants send home for local improvements is matched by the Mexican government
in a program called Three for One. Much more of the $17 billion total sent home
falls outside the program.Where the Money Comes FromIn 2004, migrants pledged
$14.2 million for improvement projects in Mexico, through more than 527
organizations in 34 American states.Graph tracks total remittances (By state,
for projects in Three for One program)Where the Money GoesFederal, state and
local governments matched migrants' 2004 donations, resulting in financing for
1,263 projects.Graph tracks total amount for projects (By state, migrants'
remittances with all matching funds)Valparaiso Zacatecas2004 projects: Pavement
for Hidalgo St. $39,815 Crosswalk for health clinic $4,252 Bleachers for
bullfight stadium $17,584, initial phaseMap of the United States and Mexico
highlighting money for remittances and projects by state or region.(Sources by
Mexico's Secretary for Social Development
Mexican census data for 2000
U.S. Census Bureau
 International Monetary Fund (exchange rate for Sept. 15, 2004, when Three for
One budget was finalized)(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 23, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Quiet Office Somewhere, Watching Terrorists

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words


Last August, shortly before the Republican National Convention, New York police
officials grew concerned about a Pakistani immigrant from Queens who had begun
telling his friends that he was going to plant a bomb in the subway station in
Herald Square.

A group of Police Department analysts quickly built a profile of the immigrant,
drawing on confidential informants, surveillance and links with other law
enforcement agencies around the world. Although he did not have ties to known
terrorists, the analysts discovered, he had moved from idle threats to making
sketches of the station and talking about buying explosives. Within a few days,
the immigrant and an accomplice were arrested on a conspiracy charge, and their
case is pending.

The analysts who helped build that case, as it happens, were not police
officers. They were civilians, part of a group of eight hired over the past two
years to educate the department about terrorist tactics and help search for
threats in the city.

They are far from typical police recruits: all of them arrived at the Police
Department with advanced degrees, and several have done stints at Ivy League
universities and the Council on Foreign Relations. One speaks fluent Arabic and
has years of experience in the Middle East; another speaks Armenian, Romanian,
German and Spanish and has a background in intelligence.

Together, they represent a new facet of police work in New York: understanding
the roots of terrorism.

The analyst program, which several terrorism experts said was the first of its
kind in the country, was conceived by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly in
late 2001 as one phase of a broad antiterrorist effort that has already
transformed the department. On any given day, 1,000 department employees work
directly on terrorism-related issues, including active investigations and
biological-weapons drills. The department now has its own liaison officers
working full time in Britain, France, Israel, Canada and Singapore, all of them
filing daily reports on developments there.

One challenge, though, has been figuring out what to do with that flood of
information.

''I knew in putting these things together that we needed professional analysts
to synthesize the information coming in from a variety of sources,'' Mr. Kelly
said recently. ''So we reached out.''

The first civilian analysts were hired for the department's intelligence
division in 2003. The division is housed in a two-story office that is
discreetly hidden above a busy Manhattan shopping mall. (The department asked
that the exact location be kept secret.) There are now five analysts based
there, working alongside Arabic and Farsi linguists, dozens of police detectives
and liaison officers from other city and state agencies.

Most of their time is spent sorting through the vast sea of data that comes in
every day from a variety of sources: confidential informants, interrogations,
surveillance of criminal suspects and the department's telephone tip line, which
receives as many as 150 calls a day.

''Someone's taking pictures here, someone else is buying canisters there; we
have to put it together and figure out what it means,'' said Laura J. Mendelson,
an analyst who has worked in the intelligence division for two years.

Ms. Mendelson is the only analyst who has clearance to see classified federal
government documents. Her colleagues' access to the government's most important
information is limited for now, but they are expected to receive clearance soon,
said David Cohen, the Police Department's deputy commissioner for intelligence,
who worked for 35 years at the Central Intelligence Agency.

Ms. Mendelson has worked in the Middle East and North Africa and speaks fluent
Arabic, an advantage in ferreting out information from the city's Arab
immigrants.

Another analyst worked previously at the Council on Foreign Relations, and a
third was hired after he impressed Mr. Cohen with a presentation at Columbia
University on terrorist financing.

Three of the analysts work in the counterterrorism division, based on Coney
Island. Their work is more academic, focusing not only on terrorist attacks but
also on radical religious groups, mostly based in the Middle East and South
Asia, that are widely considered feeders for terrorist organizations.

''The thought is that a lot of these groups are steppingstones to more radical
groups,'' said Madeleine Gruen, one of the counterterrorism analysts, who earned
a master's degree studying with one of the world's foremost experts on Al Qaeda,
Rohan Gunaratna.

Even the analysts' reports, though, are far more pragmatic than anything a
university would produce. They include reviews of major terrorist attacks
throughout the world, and all of them end with sections titled ''Implications
for New York'' and ''Best Practices.''

The analysts earn $55,000 to $75,000 a year, depending on their experience, said
Mr. Cohen, the deputy intelligence commissioner.

The department plans to hire more analysts soon and to build a career ladder for
them, with a pay scale similar to the one offered in the State Department, said
Michael A. Sheehan, the deputy commissioner for counterterrorism.

All of them could earn far more working for private security companies, as some
of them did before coming to the Police Department. But several analysts said
working for the city has been much more rewarding.

''Our mandate is to contribute to the fight on the front lines,'' Ms. Gruen
said. ''It's not just about finding out the motives and ideology of the guy who
puts a bomb in a garbage can; it's about finding out what kind of bomb he
used.''

Terrorism experts say the New York analysts are as good as those being hired by
the federal government.

''Fighting terrorism is largely about information, and the N.Y.P.D. has been out
front in making sure they harness that information,'' said Bruce Hoffman, an
authority on terrorism and the director of the Rand Corporation's Washington
office. ''The civilian analysts have been essential to that.''

In some ways, Mr. Hoffman said, the New York department is ahead of the federal
government.

After terrorists struck at a Madrid train station last March 11, New York had
four of its officers at the scene that evening, long before the F.B.I. team
arrived.

F.B.I. officials resented that, and sometimes believe that New York is too eager
to do everything on its own, said two former federal officials who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.

New York police officials say they do not always get what they need from the
federal government and cannot afford to wait. The day after the Madrid attack,
for instance, police officers back in New York were already conducting modified
antiterrorism drills based on the information gleaned by the department's
officers in Spain.

The civilian analysts helped out in that effort, assessing the reports from
Madrid and then writing a report on that attack's lessons for New York.

Ultimately, the goal is to spread the analysts' expertise to as many police
officers as possible, Mr. Kelly said. To that end, the department opened a
counterterrorism library at the Coney Island office. It is still small, and it
has not yet been made available to officers outside the counterterrorism
division.

On a recent morning, several of the division's own officers were sitting in a
screening room at the library, watching a documentary about terrorist attacks in
Israel and Iraq. In the next room, a detective was staring at blueprints for a
building on the Upper East Side, working on a traffic plan that would provide
better protection from car bombs. On the tables, books lay scattered: ''Jihad,''
''America's Achilles' Heel,'' ''A Historical Encyclopedia of the Arab-Israeli
Conflict.''

One of the division's commanders, Capt. Joseph Cordes, stood nearby taking it
all in.

''In August of 2001 I was a cop in a detective bureau doing narcotics,'' he
said, ''and what I knew about international affairs came from Time magazine. Now
all of us have to get schooled up real quick on international terror.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the counterterrorism office, a sign showing city security
levels. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Contests Court Order On Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words


New York State officials announced yesterday that they were appealing a judge's
order that had halted a Department of Motor Vehicles crackdown on giving
driver's licenses to noncitizens.

State officials said they would immediately reinstate what the judge barred last
Thursday: a requirement that noncitizens provide satisfactory immigration
documents before they could renew driver's licenses, and the suspension of up to
300,000 licenses without further notice.

Joe Picchi, a spokesman for the department, said that the state filed a notice
of appeal late Tuesday, and that the action would automatically cancel the
temporary restraining order issued last week by Karen S. Smith, an acting
justice of State Supreme Court in Manhattan.

But that legal interpretation was disputed by lawyers who won the temporary
restraining order as part of a class-action lawsuit on behalf of immigrants,
both legal and illegal, who were denied the renewal of their licenses for lack
of a Social Security card or a visa satisfactory to clerks at motor vehicles
offices. The lawyers contended that the judge's restraining order remained in
effect, and said that the issue would soon be argued at the Appellate Division
in Manhattan.

As a practical matter, however, Justice Smith's order may never have been put
into practice, according to several immigrants and their advocates, who said the
motor vehicles department continued to require all the identity documents,
despite the order.

Some immigrants who rushed to renew expired licenses Tuesday morning, before the
state's notice of appeal was filed, said their licenses were confiscated
instead. Others described being sent from one government office to another
searching for documents, as they fruitlessly tried to comply with contradictory
instructions.

A two-page directive from the motor vehicles department's headquarters in Albany
to its offices around the state -- now rescinded -- did nothing to resolve the
confusion, though it gave instructions on how to handle licenses in light of the
judge's order, added the lawyers for the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund, which brought the class-action suit.

''It's very frustrating,'' said Cesar A. Perales, president of the defense fund
and the state social services commissioner under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. ''I think
it's clear they're trying to avoid complying with the court decision.''

Because the matter is under litigation, Mr. Picchi said, state officials would
make no further comment.

In testimony at an Assembly committee hearing last fall, Raymond P. Martinez,
the state motor vehicles commissioner, said the paperwork requirement was
instituted to verify the identities of those who had been issued driver's
licenses, now widely used to board airplanes and enter buildings.

''I can understand how it is easy for some to question the necessity for such a
program, especially as it applies to many residents of our state who, despite
their status as illegal aliens, are otherwise law-abiding citizens,'' Mr.
Martinez said at the hearing. ''Unfortunately the system has no way to
differentiate between that person and a person bent on bringing terror, fear and
destruction to our country, or a person who is refusing to provide financial
support for his or her minor children, is attempting to commit insurance or
credit fraud, or is a chronic violator of traffic laws who endangers the safety
of all of us.''

New York law allows people without a Social Security number, including illegal
immigrants, to get licenses if they have a letter from the Social Security
Administration saying that they are ineligible for a number.

But such a letter did not seem to satisfy clerks and supervisors at motor
vehicles offices in Riverhead or Medford on Long Island, according to a United
States citizen who contacted plaintiffs' lawyers after accompanying a Chilean
construction worker in a fruitless all-day quest to renew his expired driver's
license on Tuesday.

In an interview, the citizen, who would give only his first name, Robert,
because he said he had lied to his employer to take the day off, described
multiple visits to a crowded Social Security Administration office in Patchogue
after motor vehicles clerks maintained that Social Security clerks had checked
the wrong box and failed to sign the form.

The Social Security clerks disagreed, and in the end, motor vehicles clerks
insisted that the Chilean, who had overstayed his visa, would not be allowed to
renew his license without proper immigration documents anyway.

And at the motor vehicles office in College Point, a Queens truck driver from
Colombia said a department supervisor had confiscated his expired license when
he tried to renew it. Giving his name only as Jorge, the 40-year-old truck
driver and welder, who has been in the country illegally since 1986, said he had
asked the supervisor about the judge's order.

''She answered she did not care about any law, that she worked for the D.M.V.,''
he said at a news conference organized by immigration advocates at the St.
Francis Immigration Center, part of St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Church near
Pennsylvania Station.

The center's director, the Rev. Brian Jordan, and Jose R. Peralta, an
assemblyman who represents heavily immigrant neighborhoods in Queens, denounced
the commissioner for what they called ''mistreatment of hard-working
immigrants'' and urged noncitizens to stay away from motor vehicles offices
until Mr. Martinez signs an order of compliance with the judge's order.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorge, left, a Colombian immigrant, with other immigrants, at a
press conference yesterday about problems renewing immigrant licenses. (Photo by
Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Midwest: Ohio: Arrests In Fake License Scheme

BYLINE: By Albert Salvato (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 142 words


The federal authorities in Cincinnati have charged 15 people, including a State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles worker, in a scheme to obtain falsified Ohio driver's
licenses or identification cards for immigrants from the Middle East and Africa.
At least 6 of the 13 men who received the falsified documents from March to
September 2004 are in the United States illegally. In an indictment unsealed
Thursday, the Justice Department identified Mohammad I. Shalash, 30, of
Cincinnati, as the ringleader of the operation that used Tammy Black, 40, a
bureau worker in Cincinnati, to produce the licenses or identification cards,
and to sell them to immigrants for up to $300. Ms. Black used expired visas to
complete the license applications, court records say. Mr. Shalash remains at
large; a judge released Ms. Black without setting bond.   Albert Salvato (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Forced to Go Home Again

BYLINE: By BRYAN LONEGAN.

Bryan Lonegan is a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society Immigration Law Unit.

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 819 words


CORNELIUS JOHNSON came to New York from Jamaica in 1993. As a legal resident, he
settled in upstate New York with his extended family. In 1997, he was arrested
for criminal possession of marijuana and spent a few days in jail. In an
agreement with the state, he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to time served.
Neither the lawyer nor the judge mentioned that in accepting a plea bargain, he
could be deported. And guess what? Today, eight years after the conviction and
with a clean record, Mr. Johnson faces mandatory deportation.

Cornelius Johnson's case is emblematic of a plea bargaining system in New York
that is unfair to immigrants. When plea bargaining works, it works well: In
exchange for a reduction in charges, a defendant pleads guilty, eliminating the
expense and uncertainty of a trial for both him and the state. But there's one
big problem for defendants in New York's immigrant community: Unlike many other
states, New York does not inform immigrant criminal defendants that part of what
they bargained for may include deportation.

Since 1996, when Congress altered immigration laws, any noncitizen -- including
people who have legally lived in the United States since they were babies --
convicted of a broad range of crimes including petty offenses like turnstile
jumping, shoplifting or possession of a small quantity of marijuana may be
subject to deportation.

Unfair as the law is, it is even worse for immigrants in New York, where some
misdemeanors are defined as aggravated felonies under federal immigration laws,
which subject them to mandatory deportation. Furthermore, in the case of some
lesser crimes, a judge cannot review an immigrant's personal circumstances and
grant a deportation waiver if the crime was committed within seven years of the
alien's admission into the United States.

Moreover, New York's Court of Appeals has held that defense lawyers need not
advise a client of the immigration consequences of a guilty plea. The appeals
court has also ruled that New York's statute requiring judges to advise
defendants that their pleas may subject them to deportation is unenforceable.

So a legal immigrant who came to America as a teenager with her family, pleaded
guilty to possession of a marijuana cigarette a few years after her arrival and
traveled back to her country as an adult to visit an elderly grandmother, could
be barred from re-entering the United States. Had the court told the young woman
that she could be deported, she may not have pleaded guilty, and she certainly
wouldn't have left the country.

The consequences are not to be taken lightly. Some of these immigrants are being
forced from the only homes they have ever known, and being sent to countries
that they haven't seen since they were children and where they don't speak the
language. Most deportees are separated from their families. A wife loses a
husband, a husband loses a wife, a child loses a parent, a parent loses a child.
When the deportee is the primary breadwinner, families left behind in the United
States suffer extreme financial hardship.

Back in their homeland, deportees may face hostile circumstances. In Haiti, for
example, deportees with criminal records are arrested upon their arrival in
Port-au-Prince, thrown into crowded prisons that don't have electricity, running
water or basic sanitary facilities. They are held for days, weeks or months
without charges. In Guyana, the government publishes the photos, addresses and
reasons for deportation of all criminal deportees in a national newspaper. The
situation can be even worse for deportees with chronic illnesses like AIDS,
diabetes or heart disease who land in a country with primitive medical care.

Given these harsh consequences, the immigrant defendant should have a
significantly different calculus from his citizen counterpart when deciding to
take a plea bargain. Leaving immigrants in the dark about the possibility of
deportation is simply not fair play, especially considering that even innocent
defendants are encouraged to accept plea bargains simply to avoid the expense
and trauma of a trial

But there's some potentially good news here. The Legislature may soon consider a
new law requiring judges to tell defendants that their pleas may subject them to
deportation. Presumably this time the Legislature will write a law that the
courts will enforce.

Immigrant defendants must be fully aware of the consequences of a plea before
making it, and the law should allow an immigrant to withdraw his plea if he is
not made aware of the possibility of deportation and is subsequently expelled.

Massachusetts and Arizona recently enacted statutes and court rules requiring
that aliens be fully informed of the immigration consequences of their pleas.
New York should follow suit. Only in this way can New York restore fundamental
fairness to plea bargaining and the criminal justice system for immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Forced to Go Home Again

BYLINE: By BRYAN LONEGAN.

Bryan Lonegan is a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society Immigration Law Unit.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 813 words


CORNELIUS JOHNSON came to New York from Jamaica in 1993. As a legal resident, he
settled in upstate New York with his extended family. In 1997, he was arrested
for criminal possession of marijuana. In an agreement with the state, he pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to time served. Neither the lawyer or the judge
mentioned that in accepting a plea bargain, he could be deported. And guess
what? Today, eight years after the conviction and with a clean record, Mr.
Johnson faces mandatory deportation.

Cornelius Johnson's case is emblematic of a plea bargaining system in New York
that is unfair to immigrants. When plea bargaining works, it works well: In
exchange for a reduction in charges, a defendant pleads guilty, eliminating the
expense and uncertainty of a trial for both him and the state. But there's one
big problem for defendants in New York's immigrant community: Unlike many other
states, New York does not inform immigrant criminal defendants that part of what
they bargained for may include deportation.

Since 1996, when Congress altered immigration laws, any noncitizen -- including
people who have legally lived in the United States since they were babies --
convicted of a broad range of crimes including petty offenses like turnstile
jumping, shoplifting or possession of a small quantity of marijuana may be
subject to deportation.

Unfair as the law is, it is even worse for immigrants in New York, where some
misdemeanors are defined as aggravated felonies under federal immigration laws,
which subject them to mandatory deportation. Furthermore, in the case of some
lesser crimes, a judge cannot review an immigrant's personal circumstances and
grant a deportation waiver if the crime was committed within seven years of the
alien's admission into the United States.

Moreover, New York's Court of Appeals has held that defense lawyers need not
advise a client of the immigration consequences of a guilty plea. The appeals
court has also ruled that New York's statute requiring judges to advise
defendants that their pleas may subject them to deportation is unenforceable.

So a legal immigrant who came to America as a teenager with his family, pleaded
guilty to possession of a marijuana cigarette a few years after his arrival and
traveled back to his country as an adult to visit an elderly grandmother, could
be barred from re-entering the United States. Had the court told the young man
that he could be deported, he may not have pleaded guilty, and he certainly
wouldn't have left the country.

The consequences are not to be taken lightly. Some of these immigrants are being
forced from the only homes they have ever known, and being sent to countries
that they haven seen since they were children and where they don't speak the
language. Most deportees are separated from their families. A wife loses a
husband, a husband loses a wife, a child loses a parent, a parent loses a child.
When the deportee is the primary breadwinner, families left behind in the United
States suffer extreme financial hardship.

Back in their homeland, deportees may face hostile circumstances. In Haiti, for
example, deportees with criminal records are arrested upon their arrival in
Port-au-Prince, thrown into crowded prisons that don't have electricity, running
water or basic sanitary facilities. They are held for days, weeks or months
without charges. In Guyana, the government publishes the photos, addresses and
reasons for deportation of all criminal deportees in a national newspaper. The
situation can be even worse for deportees with chronic illnesses like AIDS,
diabetes or heart disease who land in a country with primitive medical care.

Given these harsh consequences, the immigrant defendant should have a
significantly different calculus from his citizen counterpart when deciding to
take a plea bargain. Leaving immigrants in the dark about the possibility of
deportation is simply not fair play, especially considering that even innocent
defendants are encouraged to accept plea bargains simply to avoid the expense
and trauma of a trial

But there's some potentially good news here. The Legislature may soon consider a
new law requiring judges to tell defendants that their pleas may subject them to
deportation. Presumably this time the Legislature will write a law that the
courts will enforce.

Immigrant defendants must be fully aware of the consequences of a plea before
making it, and the law should allow an immigrant to withdraw his plea if he is
not made aware of the possibility of deportation and is subsequently expelled.

Massachusetts and Arizona recently enacted statutes and court rules requiring
that aliens be fully informed of the immigration consequences of their pleas.
New York should follow suit. Only in this way can New York restore fundamental
fairness to plea bargaining and the criminal justice system for immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Forced to Go Home Again

BYLINE: By BRYAN LONEGAN.

Bryan Lonegan is a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society Immigration Law Unit.

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 827 words


CORNELIUS JOHNSON came to New York from Jamaica in 1993. As a legal resident, he
settled in upstate New York with his extended family. In 1997, he was arrested
for criminal possession of marijuana and spent a few days in jail. In an
agreement with the state, he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to time served.
Neither the lawyer nor the judge mentioned that in accepting a plea bargain, he
could be deported. And guess what? Today, eight years after the conviction and
with a clean record, Mr. Johnson faces mandatory deportation.

Cornelius Johnson's case is emblematic of a plea bargaining system in New York
that is unfair to immigrants. When plea bargaining works, it works well: In
exchange for a reduction in charges, a defendant pleads guilty, eliminating the
expense and uncertainty of a trial for both him and the state. But there's one
big problem for defendants in New York's immigrant community: Unlike many other
states, New York does not inform immigrant criminal defendants that part of what
they bargained for may include deportation.

Since 1996, when Congress altered immigration laws, any noncitizen -- including
people who have legally lived in the United States since they were babies --
convicted of a broad range of crimes including petty offenses like turnstile
jumping, shoplifting or possession of a small quantity of marijuana may be
subject to deportation.

Unfair as the law is, it is even worse for immigrants in New York, where some
misdemeanors are defined as aggravated felonies under federal immigration laws,
which subject them to mandatory deportation. Furthermore, in the case of some
lesser crimes, a judge cannot review an immigrant's personal circumstances and
grant a deportation waiver if the crime was committed within seven years of the
alien's admission into the United States.

Moreover, New York's Court of Appeals has held that defense lawyers need not
advise a client of the immigration consequences of a guilty plea. The appeals
court has also ruled that New York's statute requiring judges to advise
defendants that their pleas may subject them to deportation is unenforceable.

So a legal immigrant who came to America as a teenager with her family, pleaded
guilty to possession of a marijuana cigarette a few years after her arrival and
traveled back to her country as an adult to visit an elderly grandmother, could
be barred from re-entering the United States. Had the court told the young woman
that she could be deported, she may not have pleaded guilty, and she certainly
wouldn't have left the country.

The consequences are not to be taken lightly. Some of these immigrants are being
forced from the only homes they have ever known, and being sent to countries
that they haven't seen since they were children and where they don't speak the
language. Most deportees are separated from their families. A wife loses a
husband, a husband loses a wife, a child loses a parent, a parent loses a child.
When the deportee is the primary breadwinner, families left behind in the United
States suffer extreme financial hardship.

Back in their homeland, deportees may face hostile circumstances. In Haiti, for
example, deportees with criminal records are arrested upon their arrival in
Port-au-Prince, thrown into crowded prisons that don't have electricity, running
water or basic sanitary facilities. They are held for days, weeks or months
without charges. In Guyana, the government publishes the photos, addresses and
reasons for deportation of all criminal deportees in a national newspaper. The
situation can be even worse for deportees with chronic illnesses like AIDS,
diabetes or heart disease who land in a country with primitive medical care.

Given these harsh consequences, the immigrant defendant should have a
significantly different calculus from his citizen counterpart when deciding to
take a plea bargain. Leaving immigrants in the dark about the possibility of
deportation is simply not fair play, especially considering that even innocent
defendants are encouraged to accept plea bargains simply to avoid the expense
and trauma of a trial

But there's some potentially good news here. The Legislature may soon consider a
new law requiring judges to tell defendants that their pleas may subject them to
deportation. Presumably this time the Legislature will write a law that the
courts will enforce.

Immigrant defendants must be fully aware of the consequences of a plea before
making it, and the law should allow an immigrant to withdraw his plea if he is
not made aware of the possibility of deportation and is subsequently expelled.

Massachusetts and Arizona recently enacted statutes and court rules requiring
that aliens be fully informed of the immigration consequences of their pleas.
New York should follow suit. Only in this way can New York restore fundamental
fairness to plea bargaining and the criminal justice system for immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 1, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In This Corner, a Fighter for Immigrant Laborers

BYLINE: By PATRICK O'GILFOIL HEALY

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.


NADIA MARIN-MOLINA is quieter than her cause. As the executive director of the
Workplace Project, a group that campaigns for immigrant laborers on Long Island,
she has fought dozens of long and loud battles over one of suburbia's most
volatile issues.

Ms. Marin-Molina is a veteran of public protests and news conferences. Her
critics say she has wrongfully labeled some people on Long Island as racists and
that her advocacy has helped degrade the quality of life in the suburbs. Ms.
Marin-Molina and members of her group have demonstrated outside of contractors'
homes protesting that they have failed to pay workers and have gotten into
shouting matches with anti-immigrant advocates.

But even amid the fray, Ms. Marin-Molina, 35, is positively balmy. Her voice is
as honeyed and as sunny as a kindergarten teacher's, and she speaks in the
excited whisper of someone about to share a secret. People who know her say she
floats calmly by as the debate over immigration roils around her.

Ms. Marin-Molina was a newly minted lawyer with a degree from New York
University School of Law when she took over the Workplace Project in 1999. The
organization represented day laborers -- most of them Latino immigrants -- in
lawsuits against contractors, advocated for centers where contractors could go
to hire day laborers and campaigned for better working conditions for laborers
and domestic workers.

It was a combative agenda on Long Island, one of the most segregated suburbs in
the country where a need for inexpensive workers to do jobs others don't want to
and a lack of rental housing have helped stoke the debate over immigrants. In
many communities, residents complained about houses crowded with laborers and
immigrants packing street corners looking for work.

But for the most part, the Workplace Project could manage the intensity of the
debate, said Jennifer Gordon, the organization's founder.

A year after Ms. Marin-Molina took over for Ms. Gordon, the roof blew off. Two
immigrant laborers from Farmingville, in Suffolk County, were lured into an
abandoned warehouse by white supremacists posing as contractors and stabbed and
beaten with a shovel and a crowbar. Ms. Marin-Molina said she had heard stories
of other attacks that had overtones of bias, like immigrants being hit by
bottles and struck by cars, or having rocks thrown through their windows.

But the attacks against the two laborers in 2000 were different. National media
attention focused on Farmingville and Long Island as the epicenter of the debate
over immigrants in the suburbs. The verbal exchanges grew scalding, as some
anti-immigrant groups suggested deportation and alluded to more violence.

''It was much more than I could ever imagine,'' she said. ''We didn't have any
connections with politicians. We didn't know who to talk to or who to trust.
It's like you're playing an arcade game and suddenly you go from Level 1 to
Level 2.''

Friends said Ms. Marin-Molina quietly planted her feet into the fray. She kept a
folder for hate mail and noted the phone calls that accused her of destroying
the community. The attacks against the two men were the impetus for the
critically acclaimed ''Farmingville,'' a 2004 documentary that looked at the
debate over immigration and labor. Two men were found guilty of attempted murder
and other charges in the attack and each was sentenced to 25 years in prison.

When Farmingville residents demonstrated against day laborers looking for work
on the corner, Ms. Marin-Molina organized counterdemonstrations. Residents often
videotaped the demonstrations in support of immigrants, and once, when Ms.
Marin-Molina was pregnant with her son, Lucas, now 4, a man with a video camera
trained his lens on her stomach. ''I said, 'Oh my God, that was scary,''' she
said. ''But some people are crazy. You just hope they don't act on those
things.''

Unsettling, yes, but it was what she had dreamed of doing while she slogged
through law school. Ms. Marin-Molina's parents, both Colombian immigrants, had
given her a sense of social justice.

''I'd come home from school and talk about something in history class and my dad
would say: 'They don't tell you what the government did in Guatemala. They don't
tell you about Pinochet.'''

MS. MARIN-MOLINA grew up in Boston, and it was her parents' own experience as
blue-collar workers who had a variety of jobs -- including in restaurants --
that informed her commitment to laborers and those on the lower end of the pay
scale.

She landed at the Workplace Project through a summer internship, and found it a
perfect fit. Volunteers answering the phones. Posters of refugees and child
soldiers on the wall. Cramped offices and staff members' children playing in the
halls. She would work 70 hours a week, earn less than $40,000 a year, but the
job became a part of her, she said. She met her husband, Juan Carlos, there, and
now brings her son to play in the building while she does planning and holds
meetings.

''I naturally avoid confrontation -- that's my personality,'' she said. ''But
you're in a specific position because of the workers, and you have to look at
what's most effective. You're not speaking for yourself.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: NADIA MARIN-MOLINA

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: NADIA MARIN-MOLINA (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York
Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 2, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nicolas M. Salgo, 90; Built Watergate Complex

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 487 words


Nicolas M. Salgo, a Hungarian immigrant who prospered as a financier and a
builder of the Watergate complex in Washington and returned to his native
Budapest as the United States ambassador in the 1980's, died on Saturday on a
visit to Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Key Largo, Fla., and on the
Upper East Side of Manhattan.

The death was announced by his family.

Mr. Salgo was chairman of the Watergate Companies, which operate the hotel,
office and retail complex, when President Ronald Reagan sent him to Budapest in
1983. Before that, he was a consultant on foreign aid and a member of the
government's International Private Enterprise Task Force.

Over the years, he was also associated with the builder William Zeckendorf Sr.
at Webb & Knapp, the construction firm; with the Bangor Punta conglomerate; and
with a ranching operation in Oregon, among other concerns. A generous
contributor to the Republican Party, he topped its lists of donors in 1988 with
a reported $503,263 in donations.

As ambassador to Hungary, he privately commissioned the sculptor Imre Varga to
create a bronze-and-granite monument to Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat
who saved thousands of Hungarian Jews from the Nazis before disappearing into
Soviet captivity. The statue was dedicated in Budapest in 1987.

Mr. Salgo left Hungary in 1986 to become a State Department specialist in
property issues, negotiating agreements with Eastern European nations on matters
like sites for embassies.

In his lifelong travels, Mr. Salgo amassed an eclectic collection of art, much
of it Hungarian. When he left government service in 1993, he formed the Salgo
Trust for Education, an art history research center, which has exhibited his
collection in museums in this country and overseas. The trust says it has the
largest body of Hungarian art outside Hungary.

Nicolas Miklos Salgo was educated in Hungary, receiving doctorates in law and
philosophy at the University of Budapest in 1937. He started his business career
in 1938 as an import-export manager and later became a partner in Geneva with a
Swiss firm, which sent him to New York in 1948.

There, he met Mr. Zeckendorf and rose as a financial executive in Webb & Knapp.
He also began an association with the architect I.M. Pei, who then worked in the
firm's design unit. After that, he was involved in the deals that stitched
together the Bangor Punta conglomerate, whose largest division was Piper
Aircraft.

Meanwhile, he became a principal in the financing, development and construction
of the Watergate. Later, he was chairman of the Watergate Companies from 1977
until 1983.

Mr. Salgo's first marriage, to Marika Noren Salgo, ended in divorce. He is
survived by his wife of 34 years, Josseline de Ferron Salgo; a son and a
daughter from his earlier marriage, Dr. Miklos P. Salgo of Kinnelon, N.J., and
Christina G. Salgo of Rockport, Mass.; and three grandsons.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Nicolas M. Salgo

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 3, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Yaphank: 26 Sex Offenders Face Deportation

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Gilfoil Healy (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 101 words


Federal immigration officials arrested 26 registered sex offenders living in
Suffolk County yesterday morning and began deportation proceedings against them.
The men taken into custody were immigrants -- some illegal -- living in Suffolk
County after serving prison and jail terms for raping, sexually abusing and
assaulting girls from 6 to 18 years old, the Suffolk County police said. Most of
the men were from Central America, Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Haiti.
Their arrests were part of an effort to arrest and deport illegal immigrants
guilty of serious crimes.   Patrick O'Gilfoil Healy (NYT)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prosecutors Foiled Deportation Of Man Now Held in L.I. Killing

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2132 words


A jailhouse informer, charged with impersonating a police officer and killing a
Long Island man in January, was able to avoid deportation at the end of a prison
term last year because of a series of extraordinary interventions by the Queens
district attorney's office, according to newly disclosed state and federal
records.

The informer, Reginald Gousse, 31, is a Haitian citizen with a long history of
kidnapping, police impersonation and armed robbery, but he had testified for the
prosecution at one of the city's first trials brought under the 1995 death
penalty statute and was given a major break in his own pending cases. Mr. Gousse
also received another, far more unusual benefit: using legal means, prosecutors
manipulated his criminal record so he was able to avoid deportation to Haiti.
Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said he wanted Mr. Gousse to
remain in the country so he would be available to testify again.

To thwart efforts by federal immigration authorities to deport him, Queens
prosecutors helped him withdraw a guilty plea in February 2004 that he entered
12 years earlier for a 1992 armed robbery, and for which he had already served
the full sentence. In its place, they allowed him to substitute a lower-level
offense that did not meet the threshold for expulsion from the country.

Additionally, they delayed his sentencing on other, more recent violent crimes
until the day he was released from custody, March 24, 2004. This had the effect
of keeping him out of the state prison system -- protecting him from retaliation
for his work as an informant, but also shielding him from the scrutiny of
federal immigration authorities.

''Someone did him an extraordinary favor,'' said Frank Kelly, one of the lawyers
recently appointed to represent Mr. Gousse.

After he was set free last March, the police and prosecutors say, he began a
series of fresh crimes that ended with the killing of James Gottlieb, 49, of
Garden City, a husband and father of three. Mr. Gottlieb was stopped by a man
impersonating a police officer as he drove home from his job as an assistant
bank manager, prosecutors say. Mr. Gousse has denied the charges.

The Queens district attorney said he had no regrets about his office's handling
of Mr. Gousse, because his testimony helped the prosecution of the killers of an
off-duty police officer and the owner of a check-cashing store. ''The murder of
Mr. Gottlieb this year is no less a tragedy than were the murders of Detective
Charles Davis and Ira Epstein,'' Mr. Brown said. ''The only person responsible
for the actions of Reginald Gousse is Reginald Gousse himself.''

At the time the prosecutors made their deal with him, Mr. Brown said, they did
not realize that he was not a citizen or that a federal immigration judge had
already ordered him deported. When they found out several years later, Mr. Brown
said, they exerted themselves to resolve his deportation problems to make sure
he would remain available.

''We wanted to keep him here,'' Mr. Brown said. ''We knew if he was returned to
Haiti, we would have great difficulty getting him back, in the event we needed
him back for appellate purposes or a new trial.''

Federal immigration officials said that Mr. Gousse was precisely the kind of
dangerous criminal whom the law requires to be expelled from the country after
his debt to society has been paid, and that the actions by the prosecutors had
foiled their efforts. ''It was 100 percent our intention to deport this guy at
the first available opportunity,'' said Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for the
federal Immigration Customs and Enforcement agency. ''They basically absolved
the conviction.''

Immigration law specialists and criminal defense lawyers said they were
astounded by the complex intercessions by Queens prosecutors on Mr. Gousse's
behalf. Under recent immigration law, people who have minor violations, like
jumping a subway turnstile three times, can be subject to deportation.
Prosecutors in Queens and elsewhere in New York have routinely refused to reopen
even petty criminal cases to help immigrants avoid expulsion.

''It's rare that a noncitizen is allowed to change a plea, as usually there is
strong opposition from the prosecutors and the court system generally,'' said
Manuel D. Vargas, a lawyer who is the author of the handbook ''Representing
Noncitizen Criminal Defendants in New York State.''

Mr. Gousse's case provides a glimpse of the high-stakes bargaining with criminal
witnesses in serious cases, the especially vexing problems posed by jailhouse
informers and the intense bonds that can develop between law enforcement
officials and sources. District Attorney Brown said that such witnesses have a
strong motive to lie, but also enjoy close access to other prisoners. Jurors are
told to weigh the credibility of witnesses, like informers, who receive benefits
for their testimony.

The saga of Mr. Gousse, however, shows that a full accounting of the benefits
was not presented to the jury that heard him testify, in large part because
layers of his problems and the prosecutors' determination to help with them did
not emerge publicly until long after the case had ended.

A Life of Crime

 Mr. Gousse was born in Haiti on June 11, 1973, and moved to Queens when he was
10 years old. Most of his life in the United States has been spent behind bars.
He was first arrested on Jan. 1, 1990, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., caught in the
act of robbing a grocery store. In the 15 years since then, he has spent all but
17 months in jail for one offense or another.

After he finished his sentence in Florida in 1992, he returned to New York. Five
months later, he committed the first crime as an adult that could have led to
his expulsion from the United States, the robbery of an auto body shop in Queens
Village. ''I handcuffed the auto body shop owner to his file cabinet,'' Mr.
Gousse later testified, then took a Nissan Pathfinder and $3,000 cash.

Arrested a few days after the robbery, Mr. Gousse was sentenced to two to six
years. In 1993, a year after he arrived in prison, immigration authorities began
deportation proceedings on the grounds that he was an aggravated felon, and in
November 1997, an immigration judge ordered that he be deported at the
conclusion of his prison term.

In an unusual twist, Mr. Gousse avoided expulsion when his term ended the
following month: he was transferred to the custody of Florida authorities, to
serve about two months for violating probation. And for reasons that are not
clear, when he was released from prison in Florida in February 1998, the
authorities did not turn him over for deportation. Nevertheless, the order
remained in effect.

He returned to New York, and in early May 1998, he carried out two elaborate
robberies -- first stealing a car at gunpoint from a dealership, then fitting it
with lights so he could pose as a policeman and waylay the manager of a Staples
store on his way home. ''I approached the man with the red light on, ordered him
out of the vehicle, and when he said, 'Why am I being asked to get out of the
vehicle?' I said something to the effect, 'You have outstanding warrants,''' Mr.
Gousse later testified. At gunpoint, he took the man to an apartment, strapped
him to a chair with duct tape and forced him to reveal the store's security
codes.

At Rikers Island in the summer of 1998, Mr. Gousse struck up a relationship with
George Bell, a 19-year-old man awaiting trial in the killing of the off-duty
police officer and the owner of the check-cashing store, a capital murder case.
In September 1998, Mr. Gousse wrote to prosecutors, saying he had acquired
evidence ''of colossal relevance'' from Mr. Bell in the killings. Mr. Gousse had
not witnessed the crime -- he was in prison at the time -- but he said that Mr.
Bell had confessed to him.

He testified against Mr. Bell the following year, and as a reward, prosecutors
recommended that Mr. Gousse serve five years for the robberies of the car
dealership and the Staples, instead of the 21 years he might have received.
While that deal was openly discussed in court, there was no mention of his
immigration problems.

''Everyone thought he was an American citizen,'' District Attorney Brown said.
It was not until 2003, when Mr. Gousse was near the end of his five-year term,
that prosecutors learned that he was an immigrant and that the 1997 deportation
order was still in effect, Mr. Brown said.

The only way to keep him in the country was to undo the legal basis for the
deportation, which was Mr. Gousse's 1992 conviction for robbery. So on Feb. 26,
2004, 12 years after he first admitted the crime, Mr. Gousse appeared in court
as his own lawyer and, claiming that he was given bad advice by his lawyer in
1992, asked a judge to substitute a charge of possession of stolen property,
which carried a term of less than one year and would not subject him to
automatic deportation.

The judge asked an assistant district attorney who was handling the matter in
court for the day, ''Is there a reduced sentence that you will recommend?''

The prosecutor replied, ''Yes, your honor, a definite term of five months.''

That new plea, said Mr. Van Pelt of the immigration agency, effectively killed
the deportation order.

Deportation Looms

 Yet that was not the end of the elaborate solutions to Mr. Gousse's immigration
problems. New convictions loomed. Although he had pleaded guilty to his 1998
crimes in 1999 as part of his deal, by last March, Mr. Gousse still had not been
formally sentenced for them. Prosecutors had asked the judge for a postponement,
an approach occasionally taken with criminals who are also cooperating witnesses
in other cases.

Under New York law, Mr. Gousse's guilty pleas could not be entered as
convictions until the day he was sentenced. Any one of the convictions would
have been serious enough to lead to his deportation.

At Mr. Gousse's sentencing on March 24, 2004, an assistant district attorney,
Brad Leventhal, urged his immediate release. He had, after all, completed, and
actually exceeded, the agreed term of five years. ''This defendant has done
everything that he ever promised to do, and we are very happy to fulfill our
commitments at this time,'' Mr. Leventhal said.

The judge, Roger Rosengarten of State Supreme Court, urged Mr. Gousse to put his
freedom to good use and said, ''You'll be home by sometime this afternoon, I
hope.'' No one mentioned his immigration status, and no restrictions were placed
on his movements.

Because he was immediately released from custody, immigration authorities had
little chance of catching up with him. ''Had he re-entered the correction
system, he would have been back on our radar screen,'' said Mr. Van Pelt, the
immigration spokesman.

District Attorney Brown said that he was ''comfortable'' with the deal his
office struck with Mr. Gousse because he had offered information about the
robberies and killings at the check-cashing business that could only have come
from one of the killers: George Bell.

However, Mr. Bell's lawyers, Sonya Zoghlin and Mitch Dinnerstein of the Capital
Defenders Office, argued that everything Mr. Gousse claimed to have learned
about the crime from Mr. Bell, including some mistaken information, could also
have been learned from newspaper articles and legal papers that Mr. Bell kept in
his cell at Rikers Island. The judge at the trial, Arthur J. Cooperman of State
Supreme Court, refused to permit a defense investigator to testify about those
materials. Mr. Bell was found guilty and sentenced to life without parole.

''I believe my client George Bell was wrongfully convicted based, in part, on
the false testimony of Reginald Gousse,'' Mr. Dinnerstein said. Prosecutors,
however, note that Mr. Bell admitted the crime in a videotaped statement.

News accounts of the killing on Long Island this year of Mr. Gottlieb -- another
business person stopped by a police impersonator -- reminded Mr. Dinnerstein of
the events in the Staples robbery. He called a crime-tips line, and his
information led Nassau County detectives to focus on Mr. Gousse, said Detective
Lt. Dennis Farrell of the Nassau County Police homicide squad.

Elizabeth Gottlieb, Mr. Gottlieb's wife of nearly 25 years, said she had gone
through all the possibilities about his journey home on the evening of Jan. 5.
He was shot less than a mile from their home. What if her husband had not moved
last summer from a bank branch in Brooklyn to one in Cedarhurst, so he could be
nearer home? What if she had not insisted on cooking that night, and he had
instead stopped for a take-out dinner?

Then there is the matter of Mr. Gousse.

''If he had gotten what he deserved for those other crimes and stayed in jail --
but you can't dwell on that,'' she said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth Gottlieb of Garden City, whose husband, James, an
assistant bank manager, was killed in January by a man posing as a police
officer. (Photo by Ed Betz for The New York Times)
 Reginald Gousse, a convict with a long history of armed robbery. (Photo by
Nassau County Police Department)(pg. B4)Chart: ''Repeat Offender''Reginald
Gousse, 31, who was arrested Feb. 10 in the Jan. 5 killing of James Gottlieb, an
assistant bank manager on Long Island, has been in prison for most of his life
since age 16. After he became a jailhouse informer, prosecutors helped him avoid
deportation.Jan. 1990 to Jan. 1992 -- Mr. Gousse is imprisoned in Florida after
pleading guilty to armed robbery of a grocery store in 1990.June 22, 1992 --
Robs an auto body shop in Queens and pleads guilty. Imprisoned in New York until
December 1997, he commits 42 infractions, which more than doubles his term.June
7, 1993 -- Immigration authorities begin deportation proceedings.Nov. 10, 1997
-- Ordered deported to Haiti at the end of his prison sentence in 1992
conviction.Dec. 1997 to Feb. 1998 -- At the end of his New York prison term,
transferred to Florida to serve several months for probation violation.Feb. 1998
-- Set free by Florida, despite deportation order.May 1998 -- Steals car at
gunpoint from dealership, uses flashing light on car to pose as police officer,
kidnaps a Staples manager and is arrested while robbing Staples store in
Queens.Sept. 1998 -- Becomes jailhouse informer in death penalty case.Feb. 1999
-- Makes plea agreement to receive a five-year sentence for the 1998 crimes, but
is not sentenced. Later testifies in death penalty case.Feb. 2004 -- With
district attorney's permission, he retracts 1992 guilty plea to nullify 1997
deportation order.March 24, 2004 -- Sentenced to time served on 1999 plea
agreement and immediately released, avoiding deportation on 1998 charges, since
new deportation proceedings do not begin until sentencing.May 2004 -- A
checkcashing business in Queens is robbed by a man posing as a police officer
who kidnaps two employees and the husband of one.Jan. 5, 2005 -- Mr. Gottlieb is
stopped and shot by a man impersonating an officer. Mr. Gousse is arrested in
February. He is indicted in March in the robbery of the check-cashing
business.(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rice and Mexican Official Hint at Thaw in Relations

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 10


Condoleezza Rice, making her first visit to Latin America since becoming
secretary of state, worked Thursday to resolve conflicts on immigration, border
violence, criminal justice and other issues that have undercut once high hopes
for a harmonious relationship with Mexico.

Ms. Rice emphasized that relations with Mexico were positive, but she stood firm
on critical statements by the State Department about Mexico's police, its
justice system and drug-related violence near its border with the United States.

Speaking together, she and Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez said they were
working together to resolve recent differences, and they announced a resolution
over water rights, with Mexico agreeing to supply water owed to the United
States under a 1944 agreement.

Mr. Derbez proclaimed that with the water agreement and other discussions, he
and Ms. Rice had established a ''magnificent atmosphere of friendship'' with
which to solve further problems.

Ms. Rice called Mexico a ''good partner'' in the fight against drug trafficking
and praised its democratic advances after living under one-party rule most of
the last century.

In public statements and in interviews with the Mexican news media, Ms. Rice
sought to assure Mexicans that the Bush administration would keep trying in
Washington to win passage of legislation to make it easier for Mexicans to find
temporary work in the United States, but she made no promises when progress
could be made.

Ms. Rice called the border problem ''a difficult issue'' and said it was
important that it be resolved, but she gave no details.

Mr. Bush's proposal was announced as a high priority when he took office in 2001
and proclaimed that he would work for a new era of friendship with Mexico and
its new president, Vicente Fox.

With an estimate six million undocumented Mexicans in the United States,
immigration reform remains Mr. Fox's chief foreign policy priority. But after
the Sept. 11 attacks, the Bush administration shifted its attention to
protecting American borders, rather than opening them.

Last fall Ms. Rice's predecessor, Colin L. Powell, said in Mexico that President
Bush would make a new effort in 2005 to revise the immigration laws, but on
Thursday Ms. Rice did not offer any timetable.

Ms. Rice's one-day visit was intended in part to prepare for a meeting at Mr.
Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex., with President Fox and Prime Minister Paul
Martin of Canada.

Among the sources of contention she addressed was a recent State Department
human rights report chastising Mexico for kidnappings, disappearances and a
faulty criminal justice system. The report's findings were rejected by Mr. Fox
as mistaken.

''This is not a matter of pointing fingers,'' Ms. Rice said on the flight to
Mexico. ''This is a matter of really trying to get the best possible
coordination and work that we can, so that there is safety for citizens of both
countries on both sides of the border.''

At the news conference with Mr. Derbez, she said emphatically that Mexico had
made considerable progress in establishing human rights in recent years.

Ms. Rice also said she and Mr. Derbez discussed border violence, a problem that
prompted the American ambassador, Tony Garza, to say in January that the Mexican
authorities needed to do a better job policing the area. That criticism was also
rejected by Mexico, as interference in its internal affairs.

In interviews, Ms. Rice noted worries that terrorists would use the Mexico
border as a back door to the United States, and so she emphasized the need for
closer cooperation and the use of better technology to stop illegal crossings,
estimated at more than 400,000 people a year.

''Indeed we have from time to time had reports about Al Qaeda trying to use our
southern border but also trying to use our northern border,'' she told
reporters. ''There is no secret that Al Qaeda will try to get into this country
and into other countries by any means they possibly can.''

Ms. Rice also discussed Mexico's concerns about the Bush administration's
decision to drop out of an agreement that lets the International Court of
Justice rule on cases of foreigners imprisoned in the United States without
their being given a chance to consult diplomats from their own countries.

The United States, she said, will observe all international conventions allowing
foreigners to appeal their cases if they have been denied consultation with
envoys from their countries. Mexico has won the right for new hearings for 51
Mexicans on death row who were not told of their rights in this regard.

''We will continue to believe in the importance of consular notification,'' Ms.
Rice said, but she said the international court jurisdiction had proven
''inappropriate'' for United States.

Before departing, Ms. Rice visited the site of a microfinancing program and
announced a $10 million grant for several small enterprises. American officials
noted that fewer than 40 percent of Mexicans have bank accounts that give them
access to such financing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A.C.L.U. Requests Documents on Visas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16


The American Civil Liberties Union asked the Bush administration on Wednesday to
turn over documents detailing the use of immigration laws to bar foreign
scholars from the United States based on their reported support of terrorism or
on other ideological grounds.

Citing three prominent cases in the past year, the A.C.L.U. said the
administration appeared to be denying visas to Muslim and Hispanic academics
because it disagreed with their political views.

The civil liberties group filed a Freedom of Information Act request with
several federal agencies seeking records about the decisions to keep the
scholars out of the country.

The most recent case cited by the A.C.L.U. is the denial of a visa to a former
Nicaraguan Sandinista leader, Dora Maria Tellez, who was to have taught a course
this spring at the Harvard Divinity School.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 20, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Gang Crackdown

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 487 words


The nationwide federal roundup announced last week of suspected members of Mara
Salvatrucha, the violent gang also known as MS-13, was good news for Long
Island. Of 103 arrests in areas including Washington, Los Angeles, Baltimore and
Newark, the largest group of suspects, 30, was detained in Nassau and Suffolk.

The arrests were part of a campaign by immigration officials, working with state
and local police departments, to make inroads against one of the country's
largest and most fearsome street gangs.

MS-13, which emerged from communities of immigrants from war-torn El Salvador,
has been linked to a wide range of criminal enterprises, including drug
trafficking, the smuggling of weapons and people, car theft, money laundering,
prostitution and extortion. Gang infighting and turf wars have led to brutal
spasms of violence whose victims have also included police officers and
civilians, not just in cities but also in rural America and the suburbs, as many
residents of Long Island know only too well.

In this crackdown, federal and local law enforcement officials are cooperating
without blurring their missions or job descriptions. Thus, it does not provoke
as many qualms as the proposal a few months ago by the Suffolk County executive,
Steve Levy, that county police officers be deputized as federal immigration
agents. Nor is it exactly like the immigration roundups of hundreds of Muslim
men that followed the 9/11 attacks, which were widely criticized as an excessive
application of brute federal power.

Law enforcement sweeps and roundups focused on specific populations or ethnic
groups are certain to inspire concerns about civil rights and due process. But
in this case, it appears that the authorities carefully chose their targets,
using homegrown intelligence about suspects with serious rap sheets -- including
convictions for murder, weapons violations and robbery -- and using their
immigration violations as the basis for deportation proceedings. The effort is
focused only on the most hardened criminals; casting a wider net would only
overwhelm the government's ability to detain and process immigration violators.

It is possible, of course, as some immigrant advocates have warned, that an
overzealous or inept assault on gangs like MS-13 could ensnare the innocent and
frighten the public out of helping the police. But it is also true that
inventive, aggressive law enforcement efforts like this will help communities
that suffer the most from gang activity, from inner-city Los Angeles and Miami
to New Cassel and Huntington on Long Island.

As long as the innocent are protected and immigration laws are not employed as a
cheap and convenient way around the more time-consuming chores of shoe-leather
policing, it only makes sense for federal, state and local authorities to team
up with a wide array of tactics to address the gang menace.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TB Declines, but Not in Immigrants

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 441 words


Tuberculosis rates in the United States reached an all-time low in 2004, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced last week. But they rose in
17 states, and states with large numbers of recent immigrants, including New
York, New Jersey, Florida and California, accounted for most new cases.

Infection rates for Asians were 20 times as great as those of whites, and rates
for blacks and Hispanics were 8 times as great as those of whites, the centers
said. The overall number of cases, 14,511, was the lowest since recording began,
in 1953.

The high rates for Asians ''are a reflection of immigration patterns and TB
rates in the countries of origin,'' said Dr. Kenneth Castro, director of the
tuberculosis control division at the C.D.C. China and India have the most cases
in the world, and there are relatively high rates in Vietnam and the
Philippines.

More than half the cases in the United States were in people born overseas and
probably first infected there, Dr. Castro said.

The higher rates for Hispanics and blacks reflect a combination of high rates in
Mexico and the disproportionate rate of incarceration, homelessness and drug
abuse among those populations, Dr. Castro said.

Cases of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, the most dangerous kind, also
continued to decline. Only 114 people had drug-resistant strains in 2003, the
last year they were measured; 86 of them were born abroad.

Dr. Castro attributed the decline to measures taken after an epidemic of
drug-resistant strains broke out in the late 1980's. Now every tuberculosis
patient is quickly tested for drug resistance, and doctors can change the
regimens accordingly.

Also, he said, local clinics are more sophisticated at enticing patients to
report daily for six to nine months to take their pills while a nurse watches.
Some clinics offer sandwiches or vouchers for fast-food restaurants, some pay
transportation costs, and some send workers to shelters for the homeless, subway
platforms or other places where the homeless congregate.

''By making sure that people complete their therapy, you minimize drug
resistance,'' Dr. Castro said.

Resistant strains can also be picked up from other victims.

Dr. Castro cited two recent outbreaks of such tuberculosis in high schools in
Georgia and California, each from strains circulating abroad. ''To me, that
shows the importance of the U.S. being involved in controlling TB overseas,'' he
said. ''It's enlightened self-interest.''

Public health authorities are eager for new tuberculosis drugs. The latest was
introduced in the 60's, and drug companies rarely test new antibiotics against
the disease.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Pride and Death in U.S. Service

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1357 words

DATELINE: DEGOLLADO, Mexico


The shrine set up on a broken television in the corner would be familiar to many
American military families. The somber Stars and Stripes is folded neatly in a
triangle, encased in wood and glass. A couple of medals lie in boxes, inert as
rocks, collecting dust.

A stern young man in his dress United States Army uniform peers at visitors from
a small photograph. His dog tags hang beside the photo. A photo of the same
young man with his even younger wife, caught in a swirl of laughter, is nearby.
These are the relics of a life cut short, in the name of honor, liberty and
country. The question is whose?

What seems odd is that the mementos are not in a living room in upstate New York
or rural Virginia, but in an impoverished house with concrete floors in a dusty
town deep in the hills of central Mexico. The soldier, Pfc. Jesus Fonseca, 19,
was not an American citizen, but one of at least 22 Mexican citizens who have
died fighting for the United States in two years of war.

As of January, about 41,000 permanent resident aliens were in the United States
armed forces -- 3,639 of them from Mexico. The Mexicans are the largest group
among the 63 immigrants who have been killed in action in Iraq, the Pentagon
says.

It is a fact that points to Mexico's ambivalent yet deeply intertwined
relationship with the United States, the country Mexico fought its last war
against, and lost. That defeat, in 1848, is not forgotten here.

Yet so many Mexicans have migrated to the United States seeking jobs in recent
years that they and their children are willing to fight and die for it, even if
they are frequently motivated more by economic necessity than patriotism.

For many, armed service is seen as a fast track to citizenship. During wartime,
foreigners with residency permits need only to serve honorably for their
citizenship to be all but guaranteed, immigration officials said. Of course,
they must survive as well.

Indeed, in a cruel twist, soldiers like Private Fonseca, who in the horrible
minutes of Jan. 17 took a sniper's bullet in the stomach while patrolling in
Ramadi, are accorded citizenship only after death.

''He lost his life for another flag,'' said his cousin Noe Beltran, echoing the
views of many in this town. ''Personally, I think it should have been for
Mexico.''

Like Private Fonseca, most Mexicans in the armed forces straddle two worlds.
Some join the Army or the Marines for the usual reasons: poverty, a desire for
adventure, love for their adopted country, the prospect of a subsidized
education and, of course, the adolescent urge to prove themselves as something
more than pimply youths.

Fernando Suarez del Solar, a United States citizen who began a family in Mexico
with a Tijuana woman, said a Marine Corps recruiter started working on his son,
Jesus, when the boy was only 14 and still living in Tijuana.

Jesus Suarez del Solar, who was eligible for a residency permit but not
citizenship, wanted to be a Tijuana police officer and fight drug traffickers. A
recruiter convinced him that after a stint in the Marines he could easily be
hired by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, his father said.

The family moved to Lomita, Calif., and after four years of high school, during
which he received weekly calls from the recruiter, Jesus signed up. Part of his
motivation was to become a United States citizen, his father said.

''When he got out of boot camp, he called me and said, 'Papa, now I'm a marine,
but I made a mistake,''' Fernando Suarez del Solar said. ''I don't want any of
my cousins to go into the Army. There is a lot of discrimination here.''

Jesus, a lance corporal, 20, was killed by fragments from an American cluster
bomb on March 27, 2003, near Nasiriya, in the initial offensive to occupy Iraq.
He left a wife and infant son in Escondido, Calif.

''The recruitment system really goes after the Hispanic community,'' Mr. Suarez
del Solar said. ''A lot of Hispanics are born in Mexico but live in the United
States and don't have citizenship. They see a good option in the Army to get
papers, to get citizenship more quickly, and one thing the recruiters say often
is that military service will make it easier for them to become accepted in
society.''

For others citizenship is less important than economic opportunity.

Sergio Diaz Sr. said his son Sergio Jr. had few prospects when he graduated from
Narbonne High School in Lomita. He was a lanky young man who played basketball
well and liked to tinker with his family's old Mustang.

The father, a legal immigrant, made a meager living doing odd jobs and fixing
cars. They lived in a trailer park. ''There weren't many other options, so he
enlisted,'' Sergio Diaz Sr. said.

The boy told relatives that someday he hoped to have a well-paid job in the
States, as a full-fledged citizen. Then, he said, he wanted to buy his mother
her own house in Mexico, so she would no longer have to live on her sister's
charity.

That dream ended last Thanksgiving, when a roadside bomb exploded near Ramadi
and the shrapnel ripped through Specialist Sergio Diaz Varela's 21-year-old
body.

He was buried in the cemetery in Tlaquepaque, a suburb of Guadalajara, on Dec.
12. His mother, Maria Guadalupe Varela, did not want the American flag draped
over the coffin, but relented under pressure from family members. She blames
United States Army recruiters for her son's death, Mr. Diaz Sr. said.

Two hundred people turned out to bury the young soldier, including the local
mayor and the American consul. He was eulogized as a hero, though some at the
burial struggled to connect his sacrifice to Mexico, where many people oppose
the Iraq war or are indifferent to it.

''He is considered a hero because he died for peace and liberty, which are
values that in some way we share with the United States,'' said Juan Ramon Cruz
Mejia, the manager of the cemetery, who knows the family. ''Many people from
here migrate over there, and they must have some sympathy for the United States
to offer their lives. These things are also important for us, especially liberty
and democracy.''

Private Fonseca, too, had deep roots in Mexico. He returned every summer, like a
migratory bird.

The lure of citizenship was not important, his parents said. His father said his
son had earned good marks in high school and could easily have gone to college
but had chosen a military career instead. His goal was to become an intelligence
officer, family members said.

''Citizenship was not important to him,'' the father said. ''I'm proud of my
son, because even though he did not accomplish everything he wanted, it was
still one of his dreams to belong to the Army.''

Having gone to the United States as a toddler, Jesus Fonseca also felt as much a
part of the community in Marietta, Ga., where his family had settled, as he did
part of Degollado, his parents said.

But it was here that he met his wife, Marlene Zaragoza, 18, on the last of his
long summer sojourns home. Theirs was a whirlwind romance that began when he saw
her on the village soccer field.

To everyone's surprise, he appeared again in November 2003, fresh from basic
training, and asked for her hand. They were wed in December, just before he was
shipping off to his first posting in Korea. They talked of settling in Colorado
after the war, once his citizenship papers were in hand.

''He was an easy person to love,'' she said. ''So open. He treated everything
just as it was, without hypocrisy.''

Private Fonseca's grandmother, Amada Ayala Garcia, fought back tears when she
was asked whether she supported the war that had taken her grandson's life. ''I
don't know about politics,'' she said. ''I can only say that it's a sad thing to
see so many dead.''

When they buried Private Fonseca on Feb. 2, an officer from the United States
Army gingerly handed the flag that had covered his coffin to his teenage wife.
Then a group of mariachis, including his father-in-law, belted out the classic
''Mexico Lindo y Querido'' as they lowered the casket.

''Beloved and beautiful Mexico, if I die far from you, just say that I'm
sleeping and bring me back to you,'' they sang.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Private Fonseca's wife, Marlene Zaragoza, at home in Mexico. He
lived most of his life in Georgia but is buried in his hometown.
Relatives of Pfc. Jesus Fonseca, from left: brother Ricardo
grandmother Amada Ayala Garcia
 an aunt. (Photographs by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Mexican Border, Tunnels, Vile River, Rusty Fence

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1198 words

DATELINE: MEXICALI, Mexico, March 22


When United States Customs officials discovered the latest tunnel under the
border here last month, they were stunned. With a cement floor and an intercom
system, the passage ran nearly 200 yards from a house on one side of a rusty
metal fence, under two streets and an apartment complex, to emerge in an
unassuming tract home in California.

Though more elaborate, the tunnel is not unlike the 13 others found during the
1990's, built by drug cartels. But everything in the world after Sept. 11, 2001,
has taken on a different hue. Today such tunnels are where the failures of drug
policy, border control and immigration reform meet ever pressing issues of
national security. American officials fear the tunnels could be used just as
easily to smuggle terrorists and explosives as cocaine or illegal immigrants.

That confluence of worries forms the backdrop for a meeting on Wednesday in
Texas between President Bush, President Vicente Fox of Mexico and Prime Minister
Paul Martin of Canada. But where issues converge, the interests of the United
States and its neighbors may not.

For Mr. Bush and Congress, security tops the agenda. For Mexico, it is a freer
flow of migrant workers. For Canada, it is the imperative of foreign and
domestic policies that increasingly diverge from Washington's conservative
consensus.

Senior Bush administration officials said Tuesday that the leaders were not
expected to announce any concrete agreements after the one-day meeting at Baylor
University in Waco. Instead, the men will announce a new framework and timetable
for resolving a host of sticky trade and security issues, among them letting
more workers cross borders legally for jobs and improving cooperation against
terrorists.

A year ago, Mr. Bush proposed greatly expanding a guest-worker program for
Mexican laborers. But to Mr. Fox's great dismay, the idea has faded. In the last
two weeks, American diplomats have made it clear that Congress is unlikely to
act unless Mexico does more to tighten up the border and reduce the rampant
crime on its side.

''What Mexico needs to understand is that migration is viewed largely as a
security issue in the United States, and they appear to think that that is not
as important as we do,'' said Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican who has
taken a lead in the debate on a guest-worker program.

Perhaps nowhere is the inexorable nature of the northward migration of Mexicans
-- and the vulnerability of the United States to infiltration, whether by
migrants or by terrorists -- more apparent than in Mexicali and in its sister
city, Calexico, Calif.

Investigators say they doubt that the builders of the elaborate tunnel here
would have spent an estimated $1 million just to smuggle migrant workers. It is
more likely, they said, that the tunnel was built to smuggle lucrative drugs
like cocaine and heroin, but another line of investigation is that its builders
might have intended to sell passage to terrorists.

''You have this gaping hole that could be used for anything,'' said Michael
Unzueta, the acting special agent in charge of the San Diego office of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Meanwhile, the alarms have been sounding in Washington about the dangers
post-9/11 of a porous, 2,000-mile-long border. James Loy, the deputy secretary
for Homeland Security, said last month that intelligence reports showed that
terrorists from Al Qaeda were likely to try to enter the country from Mexico,
across whose border at least 300,000 people flow every year virtually untraced
and with impunity.

Porter J. Goss, the director of central intelligence, told the Senate Armed
Services Committee last week that the United States was vulnerable to terrorists
infiltrating through its backyard.

But for President Fox, a tighter border that keeps Mexicans from desperately
needed jobs is not necessarily in his interest. Last week, in a sharp divergence
from Washington, he publicly decried a measure passed in the House of
Representatives that would mandate completion of a long-stalled security wall
between Tijuana and San Diego.

Far from being completed, he said, the wall should be knocked down. ''No country
that is proud of itself should construct walls,'' he said.

He and other proponents of immigration reform and the guest-worker program argue
that tighter controls will do more harm than good, by forcing more migrants to
take illegal routes, and thus making it easier for terrorists to cross illegally
as well.

But opponents, like Congressman Tom Tancredo, a conservative Colorado
Republican, say a guest-worker program makes no sense unless there is already a
tight border.

In increasingly strident language, Mr. Fox has painted the anti-immigrant
movement as the work of ''minority, xenophobic, discriminatory groups'' who do
not recognize the contributions of the three million Mexicans who work illegally
in the United States. The House measure passed last week would make it harder
for immigrants to get a driver's license.

More alarming, a group of self-proclaimed patriots, calling themselves the
Minuteman Project, are planning to set up a vigilante watch along the Arizona
border in April to report illegal aliens.

Here in Mexicali, the tunnels are just one route across. Every morning Border
Patrol agents find five to eight new holes sawed in the rusty metal fence that
divides the city from the United States. Albert Garcia, a Border Protection
welder, goes dutifully along the barrier, putting back together the heavy square
tubes with a spray of sparks and fire.

At night, migrants strip to their underclothes and slip into the fetid water of
New River, a polluted waterway that smells of feces, chemicals and all other
manner of putridity.

They float by silently in clusters amid odd patches of white foam caused by
detergents, while Border Patrol agents watch from the shore, waiting to see
where they will try to get out and run. ''They know we won't go into that water
after them,'' said one agent, who did not give his name. ''It's not worth the
risk.''

Others vault the wall, falling to ground on the other side then sprinting to a
waiting car, or cross the frigid desert highlands or the sweltering Sonoran
desert.

About 80 migrants die on the American side each year from exposure just in this
area, customs officials said. Last year, the Border Patrol picked up 1.1 million
people trying to cross illegally; estimates of those who get through range from
300,000 to 400,000, officials said.

For some Mexicans, the border here seems a cultural affront. On Monday evening
Carmen Castillo, a 47-year-old former nursing aide who along with her husband
was deported last September after living illegally for 18 years in California,
came to the Mexicali wall to visit her five children and a grandchild she had
never met.

She talked to her children, all of whom were born in the United States and have
citizenship, playing with the new baby through the rusty bars dividing the
countries.

''It's like visiting in prison,'' a daughter, Carmen Nero, said as she held her
infant son up to the bars. ''It's heartbreaking. It's sad that there's a fence
when we know we are all supposed to be together.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Gonzalez, 12 and born a citizen of the United States, met
Monday through a fence with his mother, Carmen Castillo, who was deported to
Mexico in September after living in California illegally for 18 years.
 A woman who scaled a border fence on Monday from Mexicali to Calexico, Calif.,
scampered around a Dumpster hoping to escape into anonymity, but she was seized
minutes later by agents of the Border Patrol. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for
The New York Times)Map of Mexico highlighting Mexicali: Mexicali is one of what
officials fear are many weak border points.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Canada: No Asylum For U.S. Army Deserter

BYLINE: By Colin Campbell (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 134 words


The Immigration and Refugee Board denied refugee protection to Jeremy Hinzman,
left, a United States Army deserter who fled to Toronto from Fort Bragg, N.C.,
in January 2004 to avoid serving in Iraq. The board rejected Mr. Hinzman's claim
that he would face persecution or cruel and unusual punishment if returned to
the United States and found instead that he ''would be afforded the full
protection of a fair and independent military and civilian judicial process in
the U.S.'' Mr. Hinzman's lawyer said they would appeal the decision, during
which time Mr. Hinzman, 26, would be allowed to stay in Canada. There are at
least eight, and by some estimates several dozen, other American army deserters
in Canada, but he is the first to apply for refugee status and have his case
heard.   Colin Campbell (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 29, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leaders of the Opposition

BYLINE: By Noam Scheiber.

Noam Scheiber is a senior editor at The New Republic.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


ACCORDING to a now infamous memo circulated among Republican senators, the Terri
Schiavo case is a ''great political issue'' for their party. The memo is half
right: the case may be good politics -- but for Democrats. After all, in
defending their intervention, Republican leaders in Congress have marshaled
traditionally liberal arguments about the federal government's obligations to
its citizens.

Indeed, the practical effect of the idealistic arguments the Republican
leadership puts forth to defend much of its agenda -- from health care to
education to immigration reform -- may be to sell the middle of the electorate
on longtime Democratic positions.

This phenomenon may be most pronounced in foreign policy, the president's
defining issue. It is true that the president can claim that recent events in
Lebanon, Egypt and even Kyrgyzstan vindicate his decision to invade Iraq, and so
may bolster his party. If this trend toward democratization continues, however,
Democrats may be better positioned to capitalize on it politically.

The reason is that -- as with education, health care and immigration --
promoting liberal democracy is a project Democrats have historically embraced.
As late as 2001, according to a Gallup poll, more Democrats than Republicans
were likely to say that building democracies, protecting weak nations from
invasion and defending human rights are ''very important foreign policy goals.''

These results are hardly surprising. The Republican base consists primarily of
Southern and Plains-states isolationists, Western libertarians and business
groups like the United States Chamber of Commerce. None of these elements gets
particularly excited about democratizing foreign countries -- because they think
it's a utopian project doomed to fail, or they think it's likely to do more harm
than good, or they think the money could be better spent on tax cuts. Even
conservative evangelicals, some of whom have waged exceptionally noble human
rights campaigns in recent years, tend to give priority to domestic issues like
gay marriage.

Except for a small circle of neoconservative intellectuals, most conservatives
are nationalists: they support an activist foreign policy when it serves a
narrow definition of American interests and oppose it when it doesn't.
''Traditional conservatives supported military action against Iraq because its
totalitarian regime was a threat to America, and because the spread of freedom
there might promote American interests in a strategically important part of the
world,'' wrote Ramesh Ponnuru in The National Review a few months after the
invasion began. ''Their stance implies no support for a generalized program of
global good works.''

The Democratic base, by contrast, consists of a coalition of minorities,
Hollywood celebrities, latte-sipping liberals and an army of dedicated
do-gooders -- advocates for women's rights, for civil liberties, for the poor,
and for the homeless, labor groups, environmental groups you get the idea. They
are exactly the kinds of people who could be expected to support a ''generalized
program of global good works.''

In practice, of course, Republicans have typically supported the president's
democratization agenda while Democrats have opposed it. But by and large the
reasons for this were partisan. There is nonetheless evidence that members of
both parties occasionally act from principle.

When the administration requested $20 billion in reconstruction grants for Iraq
and Afghanistan in the fall of 2003, for example, many Republican members of
Congress complained that the figure was too generous and insisted on converting
half the amount into a loan. Meanwhile, Senator Ted Kennedy recently conceded
that President Bush's foreign policy has resulted in ''enormously constructive''
changes in the Middle East.

This dynamic gives Democrats a potentially huge opening if democracy takes root
in nations like Iraq in the next few years -- and if Middle America embraces it.
(Both big ifs, of course. But American voters aren't nearly as isolationist as
the caricature suggests; upwards of 60 percent consistently support American
participation in United Nations peacekeeping forces.)

By embracing a robust democratization agenda, the Democratic nominee in 2008
will be able to appeal to his base while also claiming the new,
pro-democratization center. The Republican nominee, who has to win the
nomination of a party at best indifferent to democratization, will enjoy no such
luxury. Mr. Bush himself won the Republican nomination in 2000 by promising a
far less activist foreign policy than the Clinton administration had advocated.

There are important caveats. It's not a given that Democrats will be able to
rise above their partisan dislike of Mr. Bush's war, and their broader suspicion
of United States power, in order to embrace democratization. But by 2008 the job
of consolidating democracy will probably be primarily nonmilitary in nature. It
will involve financing and training indigenous political activists, helping to
build highways, schools and hospitals, and nurturing democratic institutions
like a free press and labor unions. Which is to say, all the things Republicans
roll their eyes at and Democrats have long embraced.

Conversely, it's possible that the Republican Party will nominate a politician
who transcends his party's structural hostility to foreign-policy activism. But
Republicans typically succeed at selling their rank and file on democratization
only if they can make the case that it's a matter of national security. The
strategy worked for Ronald Reagan at the height of the cold war, and for Mr.
Bush in the aftermath of 9/11. It may be hard to sustain such an approach
through 2008.

It is no easy task, appealing to both the mainstream and the rank and file, a
lesson many Republican leaders are learning as the story of Terri Schiavo nears
its sad end. Great political issues, to borrow a phrase, are not always what
they seem.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Seymour Chwast)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 31, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Staffing

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 183 words



To the Editor:

In your March 21 editorial ''Our Terrorist-Friendly Borders,'' you address
issues to which officers of the Border Patrol and the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement have sought to call attention over the past year, with
little success.

You rightly cite inadequate staffing levels at the borders. Despite
Congressional authorization for the hiring of 2,000 more Border Patrol officers,
the president's budget allows for financing a mere 210 additional positions.

But I.C.E. enforcement operations require far more than tracking visas and lost
passports for which you so rightfully call. As I write, I.C.E. officers are
working without uniforms or badges marked with the name of their current agency.
Immigration officers have to release some detainees simply for lack of funds.
Meanwhile, new, draconian personnel rules are casting a chill over those in the
Department of Homeland Security who might raise their voices in protest of these
misplaced priorities.

JOHN GAGE
Washington, March 24, 2005

The writer is national president of the American Federation of Government
Employees.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 4, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guns for Terrorists

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 503 words


If a background check shows that you are an undocumented immigrant, federal law
bars you from buying a gun. If the same check shows that you have ties to Al
Qaeda, you are free to buy an AK-47. That is the absurd state of the nation's
gun laws, and a recent government report revealed that terrorist suspects are
taking advantage of it. There are a few promising signs, however, that the
federal government is considering injecting some sanity into policies on terror
suspects and guns.

The Government Accountability Office examined F.B.I. and state background checks
for gun sales during a five-month period last year. It found 44 checks in which
the prospective buyer turned up on a government terrorist watch list. A few of
these prospective buyers were denied guns for other disqualifying factors, like
a felony conviction or illegal immigration status. But 35 of the 44 people on
the watch lists were able to buy guns.

The encouraging news is that the G.A.O. report may be prodding Washington to
act. The F.B.I. director, Robert Mueller III, has announced that he is forming a
study group to review gun sales to terror suspects. In a letter to Senator Frank
Lautenberg, the New Jersey Democrat, Mr. Mueller said that the new working group
would review the national background check system in light of the report. We
hope this group will take a strong stand in favor of changes in the law to deny
guns to terror suspects.

In the meantime, Senator Lautenberg is pushing for important reforms. He has
asked the Justice Department to consider making presence on a terrorist watch
list a disqualifying factor for gun purchases. And he wants to force gun sellers
to keep better records. Under a recent law, records of gun purchases must be
destroyed after 24 hours, eliminating important information for law enforcement.
Senator Lautenberg wants to require that these records be kept for at least 10
years for buyers on terrorist watch lists.

Keeping terror suspects from buying guns seems like an issue the entire nation
can rally around. But the National Rifle Association is, as usual, fighting even
the most reasonable regulation of gun purchases. After the G.A.O. report came
out, Wayne LaPierre, the N.R.A.'s executive vice president, took to the airwaves
to reiterate his group's commitment to ensuring that every citizen has access to
guns, and to cast doubt on the reliability of terrorist watch lists.

Unfortunately, the N.R.A. -- rather than the national interest -- is too often
the driving force on gun policy in Congress, particularly since last November's
election. Even after the G.A.O.'s disturbing revelations, the Senate has
continued its work on a dangerous bill to insulate manufacturers and sellers
from liability when guns harm people. If it passes, as seems increasingly
likely, it will remove any fear a seller might have of being held legally
responsible if he provides a gun used in a terrorist attack.

An Insecure Nation: Editorials in this series remain online at
nytimes.com/insecurenation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: AN INSECURE NATION

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 7, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fight Over Immigrants' Driving Licenses Is Back in Court

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 741 words


The driving licenses of tens of thousands of noncitizens in New York State, many
of them illegal immigrants, may be at stake at a court hearing today that
examines whether the motor vehicles commissioner exceeded his authority last
year by starting a sweeping crackdown on license fraud.

The acting State Supreme Court justice hearing the case, Karen S. Smith, has
already issued a preliminary ruling that the commissioner probably did go too
far in denying license renewals and suspending licenses of noncitizens without a
Social Security card or a visa deemed satisfactory by a motor vehicles clerk.
Today, she will hear oral arguments on whether she should issue a preliminary
injunction to stop the practice until a final court decision in a class action
lawsuit challenging the crackdown.

The hearing has been awaited not only by the immigrants, but also by thousands
of employers in the metropolitan region who count on them as nannies, taxi
drivers, construction workers and in a host of other occupations.

Supporters of the state's crackdown on license fraud, who cite the need to keep
criminals and terrorists from exploiting weaknesses in the system of issuing
identity documents, are also watching.

Lawyers for the state argued in court papers that state law gives the
commissioner broad power and discretion to verify the documentation of identity
before issuing a license.

Demanding proof of ''legal presence'' in the United States from those without a
Social Security number is ''a valid and reasonable requirement'' within that
authority, because only valid, current immigration documents can be
electronically verified with the Department of Homeland Security through a
database known as SAVE, they contend.

But Foster S. Maer, one of the lawyers for the plaintiffs, disagreed. ''Let's
say the state said 'we only want to give licenses to people born in New York
State because we can verify their birth certificates more easily,''' he said
yesterday. ''They can't just decide back in their offices that they are going to
deprive a whole class of people of licenses, just because they think it's a good
idea -- that's not the way government is supposed to work.''

In a statement issued yesterday, the commissioner, Raymond P. Martinez, said he
was confident that the requirements were consistent with existing law and the
interest of public safety.

''The Department of Motor Vehicles requires every person applying for a driver's
license to submit current, valid and verifiable identification whether they are
a U.S. citizen or someone who is visiting our country,'' he said. ''That is a
simple, common-sense policy that helps fight fraud and abuse.''

Several New York assemblymen from heavily immigrant districts in the city oppose
the practice, though, and have called a press conference at the court today to
denounce the crackdown and announce the introduction of a bill that would allow
immigrants without valid visas to use other documents to prove their identity
for driving licenses.

''The D.M.V. is the Department of Motor Vehicles, not the Department of
Immigrant Harassment,'' said one of the assemblymen, Adriano Espaillat, a
Democrat who represents Washington Heights and is the author of the bill. His
staff noted that the State Assembly recently cut the Department of Motor
Vehicles' budget by $750,000, an apparent sign of displeasure over the issue.

But even if such legislation were to pass, or if the judge issues the
preliminary injunction sought by the plaintiffs, Congressional action could
supersede decisions made at the state level.

Earlier this year, the House passed a bill that would in effect forbid states to
issue driver's licenses to illegal immigrants and require verification of all
documents supplied by citizens for a driver's license.

The judge's interim order, which was blocked by the state's appeal, also
required the state to give the plaintiffs 48 hours' notice before sending out
letters suspending the licenses of about 300,000 other drivers.

Among the plaintiffs are a 60-year-old asbestos remover who worked on the World
Trade Center cleanup, a teenage refugee from Albania and an Irish man who needs
to drive his American-born infant daughter to get medical treatment for
seizures.

Most are in the country without legal authorization, the court papers say, but
two who are in the United States legally also were denied licenses, the lawsuit
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sierra Club Revisits Issue Of Immigration

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


A year after a bitter election for the board of the Sierra Club that focused on
candidates' stands on immigration, the issue is now before the membership, this
time as a ballot initiative.

Most people involved with the voting say the new campaign, which ends on April
25, is far more low-key.

Neither side said it expected a victory for the proposal, which would commit the
club to support ''lower limits on migration to the United States to address our
nation's rapid population growth and its harmful effects on the domestic and
global environment.''

Five new directors are also being elected to three-year terms on the 15-member
board. Some candidates oppose the established leadership and support immigration
restrictions. But unlike the opposition slate last year, which included former
Gov. Richard Lamm of Colorado, none of the dissidents have national profiles.

Last year, the debate was tainted with allusions to racism and character
assassination, and although a taste of that vitriol was evident in interviews
with the chief combatants, the comments and the contest this year have a
pro-forma feel.

The two most visible camps are Groundswell Sierra, which opposes any stand on
immigration limits, and a group once called Sierrans United for Population
Stability, now known as Susps, which argues for them.

''We are fighting what we consider to be a hostile takeover,'' said J. Robert
Cox, a former club president and a professor of communication studies at the
University of North Carolina, who founded Groundswell Sierra and echoes his
group's old rallying cry against the anti-immigration insurgents. Professor Cox
supports the current board majority.

Susps once again supports several candidates, though they are widely considered
unlikely to break into the current board lineup, which includes a large majority
in favor of the direction followed by the club's executive director, Carl Pope.

Dick Schneider, an environmental policy consultant in Oakland, Calif., and a
Susps member, said Tuesday that the issue was being revisited, in part to
fulfill an agreement by the two groups in 2003 to defer the ballot question on
immigration until a nonpresidential election year.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sergeant Investigated in Killing Is Accused of Fraud Schemes

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 503 words


A New York City police sergeant at the center of an investigation into the 2001
killing of a woman with whom he had been involved was accused by federal
officials yesterday of using elaborate deceptions to live in a subsidized
apartment, obtain citizenship and erase nearly $80,000 in debts by declaring
bankruptcy.

The charges against the sergeant, Martin Peters, did not include any direct
links to the killing of the woman, Juliette Alexander, the mother of two
children they had together. She was shot to death in her Brooklyn apartment on
Jan. 16, 2001.

But Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said yesterday that Sergeant Peters
remained ''a person of interest'' in the killing.

Federal officials said last night that the police were also expected to carry
out a court order to take a DNA swab and a blood sample from Sergeant Peters as
part of the murder investigation.

The federal fraud charges against him resulted from work by several agencies,
including Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Its officials said yesterday that
their interest was aroused in part because Ms. Alexander had been a newly hired
detention officer with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''Of course we have an interest in one of our own,'' said Martin D. Ficke, the
special agent in charge for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a division of
the Department of Homeland Security.

Sergeant Peters, 41, an immigrant from Trinidad who has been on the force since
1995, was suspended yesterday. After Ms. Alexander was killed, he was placed on
desk duty.

A friend of his from Trinidad, Nigel Callender, 36, was also charged with fraud
yesterday in applying for legal residency status. He also remains a ''person of
interest'' in Ms. Alexander's death, Mr. Ficke said.

Mr. Callender called 911 and was found inside Ms. Alexander's Bedford-Stuyvesant
apartment on the morning she was killed, the police said. She had been shot in
the head and he had also been shot, but investigators said he gave conflicting
accounts of what had happened.

Mr. Callender was wearing latex gloves when the police arrived. Another glove
was found in the apartment, and investigators said the purpose of DNA testing
was to determine whether that glove was linked to Sergeant Peters.

Sergeant Peters is accused of claiming falsely on his application for
citizenship that he had been married for three years to an American citizen, and
engaging with his parents in a scheme so he could stay in their federally
subsidized Manhattan apartment after they moved out.

The authorities said the parents, Alfred and Claudette Peters were also charged
yesterday. Sergeant Peters and his wife received housing subsidies that kept
their rent under $400 a month, even though their incomes far exceeded the limits
necessary for the subsidies, according to the charges.

Sergeant Peters is also accused of filing for bankruptcy protection in 2002 and
being discharged from $79,000 in debts while omitting his wife's income from his
application.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man in Capitol Scare Violated Visa, Officials Say

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 237 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


An Australian who was arrested on Monday on Capitol Hill after a bomb scare will
be expelled from the United States for violating his visa, an immigration
official said Tuesday.

''The terms of visa waivers include a public safety provision and we can send
someone back home for violating that,'' a spokesman for the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency said.

The Australian, Wenhao Zhao, who the authorities had thought was from China,
raised suspicions on Monday after he stood outside the Capitol for about an hour
with two black suitcases and demanded to see President Bush.

The area was evacuated, roads were closed and tours were stopped.

When Mr. Zhao would not respond to officers' questions, officers rushed him,
tackled him and dragged him away.

Mr. Zhao put up no resistance.

A hazardous materials response team took X-rays and blew up one of the bags that
appeared to have suspicious wires. They searched the other bag by hand.

No explosives or other dangerous materials were found, the Capitol Police said,
adding that the wires were part of a CD player.

An official said it was unlikely that Mr. Zhao would be charged with a criminal
offense. The police had considered charging him with disobeying a police
officer.

Mr. Zhao arrived in the United States on April 8, entering through Los Angeles.

A spokesman for the Australian Embassy here would not comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mother Defends Girl Swept Up in an Immigration Raid, Amid Terror Claims

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 924 words


The tiny store is more like a corridor off the sidewalk than a shop, and its
dangling wares -- $3 scarves, trinkets, cellphone covers -- shiver each time the
subway rumbles by. At the store, in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn, a
16-year-old Guinean girl named by the government as a potential suicide bomber
helped her father make a living when she was not in school or caring for younger
siblings in her family's apartment in East Harlem, the family says.

''She's a good girl, she's a family girl,'' her mother, 38, said, speaking in
Fula through a translator on Wednesday evening as she struggled to serve
customers and tend to her 6-month-old son.

The government suggests otherwise. The girl was seized along with her father in
a dawn immigration raid on March 24 at their home. A popular 10th grader at
Heritage High School in Manhattan, she is now in a maximum-security juvenile
detention center in Berks County, Pa., officially as a result of an outstanding
deportation order against her father, immigration officials say.

But according to a government document, agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation have asserted that she and a 16-year-old Bangladeshi girl arrested
in Queens the same day are ''an imminent threat to the security of the United
States based on evidence that they plan to be suicide bombers.'' No evidence was
cited in that document.

Federal officials will not comment on either case, and under an order of silence
issued by an immigration judge, lawyers for the girls are not allowed to discuss
any evidence disclosed to them by the government. The names of the girls are not
being published because they are minors who have not been charged with a crime.

The girl's lawyer defended her as a cooperative witness who was not a terrorist.

''She was 18 months old when she came to America, and she was here, too, during
9/11,'' said Natasha Pierre, who was hired by Guinean immigrants two weeks after
the girl's arrest to represent her. ''She's just as concerned and scared of
terrorists as the rest of us are.''

Of her parents, who have been here for 15 years, Ms. Pierre added, ''These are
just hard-working, simple immigrants who are trying to make it in this
country.'' Even their immigration troubles could be resolved, she maintained.
Though neither the lawyer nor officials gave details, the Guinean girl's mother
said that the father had been granted political asylum and that he might have
missed an appointment as he was awaiting his green card. An immigration official
acknowledged that if he had inadvertently missed an appointment, his case would
have been closed as abandoned, and a deportation order eventually issued.

Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat whose district includes Harlem, is
demanding more information about the girl's case from Michael J. Garcia, who
heads Immigration and Customs Enforcement, within the Department of Homeland
Security. ''No evidence has been given to justify her removal from the
community,'' Mr. Rangel wrote in a letter to Mr. Garcia this week.

Among the unanswered questions is why the Pennsylvania center was chosen to hold
the girls, who were roommates in their first weeks there but who had not met
before their arrest, according to Troy Mattes, a lawyer for the Bangladeshi
girl.

The detention center lost its federal contract to care for unaccompanied
immigrant minors last year, after newspaper articles and a report by Amnesty
International criticized the conditions as too punitive for young asylum-seekers
who entered the United States without parents. Since 2002, such immigrants must
be transferred to the Office of Refugee Resettlement, part of Health and Human
Services, for placement in foster care or with relatives.

But John McCormack, superintendent of the Berks County juvenile detention
center, most of whose inmates have been accused of delinquency, said that the
center is now also detaining some immigrant juveniles who do not fall into the
''unaccompanied'' category, under a contract with the Department of Homeland
Security. He would not say how many such juveniles were being held at the
center, which has 78 beds.

The girls are not unaccompanied, according to Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, because their parents are in the country.
He said the authorities had made sure that they had contact with their parents.

But the Bangladeshi girl was allowed to see her mother only twice for less than
20 minutes, Mr. Mattes said. He said the girl told him that three F.B.I. agents
had questioned her repeatedly for as long as two and a half hours at a time in
the first week of her detention, insisting that an essay they had found among
her school papers showed that she must be depressed, because it discussed
suicide, and that she would be to blame if her family were deported.

Her bond hearing is May 11.

The Guinean girl's mother said that except for a brief telephone call soon after
the arrest, she has not heard from her daughter. With her English limited to
''May I help you?'' and the sales vocabulary of color, size and price, she said
she did not even understand the men who identified themselves as ''police'' when
they banged on the apartment door. ''I had just finished breast-feeding the
baby,'' she said. ''They sat down and waited for my husband.''

When he returned from morning prayers at the East 96th Street Mosque, she said,
the agents handcuffed him and then her daughter, too. The last time she saw her,
the mother said, her daughter was being led away in tears.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The sister and mother of a 16-year-old Guinean girl who is being
held by the authorities. F.B.I. agents have called her ''an imminent threat.''
(Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Bill For Night Workers

BYLINE: By Jennifer Medina (NYT); Compiled by John Harney

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 155 words


A Brooklyn councilman and advocates for immigrants urged stronger measures
yesterday against stores that have locked in workers at night, sometimes even
padlocking fire exits. The councilman, David Yassky, plans to introduce a bill
tomorrow that would increase inspections of stores suspected of locking in
employees and increase fines on stores found in violation, to $5,000 from $500,
for the first offense and as high as $20,000 for repeated offenses. The bill
comes less than a month after three janitors filed a lawsuit against two C-Town
supermarkets in the Bronx, accusing them of endangering their lives by locking
them in while they cleaned overnight. The Fifth Avenue Committee, a south
Brooklyn immigrant advocacy group, held a rally with Mr. Yassky at City Hall
yesterday. Last year, the organization sent the Fire Department a list of three
dozen supermarkets that workers said had locked them in.   Jennifer Medina (NYT)



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Lawyer on the Mend, a Force for the Helpless

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words


James P. Broderick and his clients have discovered that contrary to its name,
Small Claims Court can help them recover some pretty important things.

This is not about the thousands of dollars in back pay that he has recouped for
his clients -- mostly immigrants with great needs but no papers. Nor is it about
his fee, since there is none.

Mr. Broderick and his clients are aiming big: like finding respect and a meaning
in life.

He represents people whose travails are as unnoticed as they are plentiful, the
kind of invisible workers who clean dishes, deliver meals or tend gardens.

But Mauro Castillo, one of his clients, knows that his advocate pays attention.

''He does not forget about you,'' Mr. Castillo said. ''He remembers you.''

This is no simple compliment. Mr. Broderick, 39, is blind and suffers from a
form of short-term memory loss since being hit by a car on March 7, 1993. His
legal mind was left intact, though, and from the day he emerged from a coma he
never forgot he was a lawyer.

He finally returned to the law last year, dropping by several times a month to
offer legal advice at the Hope Line, a South Bronx group that serves a large and
needy immigrant population.

Because his brain injuries hampered his ability to follow through on some
details, his parents are on hand to help keep him focused on his tasks.

''I spent the last 11 years of my life not being very productive, being
antiproductive,'' he said. ''I've been in hospitals, all kinds of rehab places.
I had been in a position of 'gimme, gimme, gimme.' After 11 years, I am at the
point where I can give back.''

In the navigation of everyday life, collisions large and small, literal and
figurative, lead to changed courses. Marlene Cintron, the group's executive
director, has recharted her own path more than once. She had been a political
player, working in Congress and City Hall. In 2001, she was a financial adviser.
The pressures were high and the emotional rewards low.

''Then right after Sept. 11, a lot of people started asking what I was asking:
If I died today, have I done something that matters?'' she said. ''So I started
looking for something to do.''

A friend who had helped found the Hope Line persuaded her to head the group,
which was founded in a Roman Catholic church to offer advice by telephone to
anonymous immigrant callers worried about everything from education and work to
housing and health.

The group now occupies modest, cramped offices behind a Franciscan friary in the
Melrose neighborhood. There are English and computer classes, citizenship
courses and emergency food and clothing. During the last four years, the number
of people seeking food has more than doubled, to 35,000 a year.

To hear Ms. Cintron tell it, the tide of immigrants coming to the group was like
an early-warning system for demographers and social service agencies alike. The
needs were evident in the faces and stories that crossed her path, especially
when she noticed how an increasing number of day laborers were coming to her to
complain of being shortchanged by employers.

She said she was trying to figure out how to handle these cases when she got a
phone call from John J. Broderick, James's father, who had been directed to her
by some friars.

''He asked, could I use an attorney,'' she recalled. ''Could I!''

Legal advice with the Brodericks is a family affair, and not just because father
and son are lawyers. James's father and mother, Jane, take turns standing at the
ready to help compensate for his short-term memory lapses, taking notes, keeping
him organized and refreshing him on case details.

''He has the brain power,'' his father said. ''I have been practicing 44 years,
and on three extraordinarily difficult cases where I did not know the answer,
Jimmy had the answer. And quickly.''

James acknowledges he was unsure how he would do, but he said he went to his new
office ready to face whatever cases he encountered.

''For years, when I was in doubt, I could bluff like a pro,'' he said. ''I did
not know what was waiting for me inside the doors, so I was ready to wing it.
The first couple of times I had some problem I was not too familiar with, I wung
it. Then I'd ask my father at night.''

Ms. Cintron said James was quick to suggest they seek back pay from employers in
Small Claims Court. The process was simpler than going through state labor
agencies, she said, and they did not have to persuade reluctant co-workers to
step forward as witnesses.

To any employer who might want to laugh him off, Mr. Broderick has a simple
reply: go ahead.

''No Small Claims Court judge is going to let my immigrant walk out without a
judgment in hand, because you people are cheats,'' he said. ''You can do what
you want. You can not believe what I say. But that's what I'm going to do.''

He did exactly that for Mr. Castillo, who said he was not paid for five weeks of
work at Panini & Co., a deli in the financial district. He secured a default
judgment of $1,782.98 late last year, though a final figure was still being
negotiated. Mr. Broderick has advised his client to hold out for the full
amount.

Howard C. Friedman, a lawyer for the deli, said the legal claim was ''absurd''
and that his client was not aware of the Small Claims Court proceedings in the
first place.

''It was a default judgment,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''It was not a decision on the
merits.''

Mr. Castillo may go back to Mexico. A settlement would make that easier. And now
he is not talking just about money. ''I came to New York to fulfill my dreams,''
he said. ''Now it is about being respected for what we are.''

James Broderick can relate to that. His family said that when they explored his
returning to the law, they felt some legal groups and associations shied away
from taking a chance on him. Maybe potential employers were worried about
malpractice, they said, or maybe they didn't know quite what to do with someone
like him. Yet among some folks who had no other legal recourse, the clients of
the Hope Line, he found easy acceptance.

''This is beyond refreshing,'' he said. ''For the first time in 10 years, 11
years, I have some feeling of hope. A feeling I can do this.''

And that, for James P. Broderick, Esq., is unforgettable.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Broderick and his mother, Jane, who assists him with his
cases, at the Bronx County Civil Court, where he often appears on behalf of
immigrants. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Soothe Dutch-Muslim Nerves, Try a Jewish Mayor

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Amsterdam Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM


Job Cohen is not just the mayor of Amsterdam, the brash and boisterous Dutch
capital. He is also a calm, somewhat reserved Jewish intellectual who has made
it his task to keep the peace between the city's Muslims and Christians.

This is not how he originally imagined his role. Since Dutch mayors are named by
the government, Mr. Cohen, a former civil servant and university chancellor, did
not campaign for the job. Once he took office at the start of 2001, he set about
addressing the range of urban problems of this lively and crowded port city.

Then his agenda was abruptly rewritten.

The shock of the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States exposed long-simmering
tensions between conservative Muslim immigrants and this city's liberal
traditions. Many Dutch began complaining openly that the newcomers -- from
Morocco, Turkey, the Middle East -- were changing their society for the worse,
while the Muslims protested that they were being treated as aliens in their
adopted country.

Mr. Cohen, known as a pragmatist with a calm manner -- who often prefers to
listen rather than talk -- was thrown into the role of mediator.

''Islam is here to stay, in this country, in this city,'' he said at his
official mansion along an elegant 17th-century canal. ''We have to deal with
Islam as a fact, not whether we like it. So the real question is how to get on
with each other.''

As a thriving port, this city of 750,000 has always had a cultural and racial
mix, but never at today's ratio, with one in three people of non-Western
descent. Last November, Amsterdam was shaken by Islamic militancy. Theo van
Gogh, a well-known local filmmaker, was shot and his throat was slit. A
Dutch-Moroccan man has confessed.

Since the killing, which caused much outrage and a spate of fire bombings of
mosques and churches in the country, Mr. Cohen, 57, has become as much moderator
as he is mayor. He takes pride in the fact that no violence or arson has
occurred in Amsterdam in response to the killing, but he concedes that social
peace is far from assured. So he moves around, visiting various ethnic groups,
organizing debates among religious leaders, listening to them and promoting
dialogue.

One recent day, he was taking a group of college students to a public housing
project in the suburb of Osdorp. Two retired police officers had opened a
clubhouse there for immigrant teenagers who had been in trouble with the police.

Why does the project receive city funds, the students asked. ''We're better off
listening to these kids than sending them to jail,'' Mr. Cohen said, spending
the next hour listening.

On another day, he attended an awards dinner of a successful Moroccan group.
Before the audience of well-suited businessmen and women in jewels and
glittering long dresses, the mayor began: ''These have not been easy times for
you. You may even have wondered: am I wanted here?'' The hall was dead silent,
as Mr. Cohen continued: ''Yes, we all belong here. You are much needed in this
society, you are the hope of this country.''

His low-key, almost casual style has earned him both admirers and detractors.
Geert Mak, a well-known writer, said that after the van Gogh killing, while
other politicians panicked and whipped up fear, ''Cohen remained a model of calm
and civic courage.''

Others see him as an advocate of the soft pedal, contending that he and his
Labor Party's multicultural policies are to blame for the immigrants' lack of
integration. Such policies, critics say, have failed to make clear where Dutch
society draws the line, and making too many concessions may have encouraged
immigrants to live off the state or to become militants. During one debate, a
local political columnist, Theodor Holman, told Mr. Cohen across the table, ''My
mayor is a weakling.''

In the intense debate over the threat of terrorism, the limits of tolerance, or
how to handle gangs of angry immigrant youths who roam Amsterdam neighborhoods
and are blamed for much petty crime, Mr. Cohen's aides say he is far from
''soft.'' Under his orders, the police have identified 80 gangs, issuing orders
to bar some leaders from troubled neighborhoods and sending several hundred
young lawbreakers to reform boot camps.

A local mosque known to spread anti-Western ideas -- it also sold Saudi Arabian
literature seen as offensive to women and homosexuals -- has had several visits
from Mr. Cohen and his aides, including Ahmed Aboutaleb, a Moroccan-born city
alderman. ''Closing the mosque is pointless when it's likely to be reopened by
the courts,'' he said.

Mr. Cohen says he is not religious but holds meetings with religious groups
because religion has come to play a greater role in the largely secular
Netherlands. He believes Muslim clerics are a key to helping Muslims integrate
into Dutch society, although the most conservative clerics oppose this.

He also promotes meetings among Christian, Jewish and Muslim leaders because, he
says, ''there is a lot of anger against Israel'' over its treatment of
Palestinians. Asked if this affects his own role, he said: ''It's hard to say.
Undoubtedly there are people who say, well the mayor is a prejudiced Jew.''

The mayor and Mr. Aboutaleb, a trusted ally, have received death threats and now
have bodyguards. A letter pinned to the body of the filmmaker called Mr. Cohen
an enemy because he was a Jew and called Mr. Aboutaleb a traitor to Islam.

What, if anything, makes this calm man angry? It is, he says, the new tough talk
of ''war'' on extremism, ''war'' on terrorism and ''clamping down'' on
immigrants, heard from some politicians. ''I see more polarization,'' he said.
''I don't like it, it's bad for the city, bad for the country. Security comes
from a stronger sense of community, from getting closer. I worry about the
hardening tone.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because of death threats, Amsterdam's mayor, Job Cohen, doesn't
often sit at his office window. (Photo by Herman Wouters for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 26, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Immigration Fight Resolved

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 103 words


Sierra Club members have rejected a change in the group's immigration policy
that would have advocated reducing migration to the United States as a way to
restrain the environmental consequences of population growth. The proposal was
defeated by nearly 84 percent of the 122,308 members who voted, the club
announced. Members also elected five new directors to the 15-member board, which
sets club policy and oversees the organization's $100 million annual budget.
Sierrans for U.S. Population Stabilization, a network of club activists seeking
to limit immigration, backed five of its own candidates. None won board seats.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Suspicious U.S., Muslim Converts Find Discrimination

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words


In the wake of 9/11, Muslim immigrants from Pakistan, Egypt and other countries
have found themselves living in a newly suspicious America. Many of their
businesses and mosques have been closely monitored by federal agents, thousands
of men have been deported and some have simply been swept away -- ''rendered''
in the language of the C.I.A. -- to be interrogated or jailed overseas.

But Muslim immigrants are not alone in experiencing the change. It is now
touching the lives of some American converts: men and women raised in this
country, whose only tie to the Middle East or Southeast Asia is one of faith.
Khalid Hakim, born Charles Karolik in Milwaukee, could not renew the document
required to work as a merchant mariner because he refused to remove his kufi, a
round knitted cap, for an identity photograph last year. Yet for nearly three
decades Mr. Hakim's cap had posed no problem with the same New York City office
of the Coast Guard.

In Brooklyn, Dierdre Small and Stephanie Lewis drove New York City Transit buses
for years wearing their hijabs, or head scarves, with no protest from
supervisors. After 9/11 the women were ordered to remove the religious garments.
They refused, and were transferred, along with two other Muslim converts, out of
the public eye -- to jobs vacuuming, cleaning and parking buses, said the women,
who are suing the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and New York City
Transit.

''I'm a U.S. citizen and I'm supposed to be protected,'' Ms. Lewis, 55, said
with tears in her eyes. ''On 9/11 I was scheduled to take policemen to that
site. I felt compassion like everyone else. And now you're singling me out
because I'm a Muslim?''

New York City Transit officials said they would not comment because the case is
in litigation.

Regardless of how their cases play out legally, Mr. Hakim, Ms. Lewis and other
converts have come to view America after 9/11 through a singular lens. An
estimated 25 percent of American Muslims are converts. Some came of age as
Americans first and discovered Islam as adults. In the years since 9/11, many
have faced a contest of loyalties between their nation and their faith.

They have watched events up close and from afar with a special, if complicated
brand of anger and loyalty, affection and worry.

Straddling two worlds came naturally to Ms. Small, who grew up in East Flatbush
with a Christian mother and a Muslim father. But she spent more time in mosques
than in churches.

It was the daily expression of Islam and its emphasis on the ''oneness of God''
that won her heart to the religion, said Ms. Small: the five daily prayers, the
way sentences are capped with words like inshallah, which means ''God willing.''

At 12 she became one of the few girls in her neighborhood to wear a hijab. If
this called for bravery, Ms. Small shrugs it off. She has worn the scarf ever
since, growing quietly used to the occasional stare that multiplied after 9/11.
If anything, she is drawn to daring. ''I always wanted to drive a bus because
it's big, it's huge,'' Ms. Small, 36, said as she picked through a fried shrimp
sandwich on a recent lunch break. ''My own personal conquest, I guess.''

Ms. Small joined the Transit Authority in 1998, at 30, after her fourth child
was born. She was assigned the B44 route, a loop of two and a half hours from
Williamsburg to Sheepshead Bay and back.

''What really got me the most was when you're sitting in that seat, how far you
can see -- how many blocks,'' she said. ''It was like a sea of vehicles.''

From the beginning, Ms. Small wore a navy blue hijab to match her uniform. No
one objected, she said, until after 9/11. The first trouble came with a more
recent hire, Malikah Alkebulan, who said she was asked to wear a transit
authority cap over her scarf after starting work in March 2002.

By chance, Ms. Alkebulan stepped onto Ms. Small's bus one day that summer. They
began talking, and Ms. Alkebulan told Ms. Small about the order, explaining that
she was scared to disobey it because she was still on probation.

''I said, 'Let them mess with me because I've been here, and I'm willing to
fight,''' Ms. Small said.

By the early fall, all three women had been transferred from their passenger
routes to jobs parking and cleaning buses. Ms. Small now spends her days waiting
for buses to pull up inside a drafty, cavernous depot in Flatbush, near where
she grew up. She parks the buses and vacuums them, clearing them of coins. On
good days, she drives empty buses to other locations, taking in the view with a
new longing. She always makes sure to be in uniform. That way, she says, people
don't think ''a Muslim woman stole a bus.''

Equal to her frustration, however, is a deep and very American conviction: that
justice will be served in court, she said.

Decades ago, when Khalid Hakim was still Charles Karolik, the only faith he knew
was Catholicism. Every Sunday, Mr. Hakim dutifully attended Mass in Milwaukee
with his parents and two sisters. He sang in the choir and served as an altar
boy.

While in grade school, he came upon Shackleton's ''Valiant Voyage,'' the true
tale of an expedition to the South Pole.

''That was the seed,'' Mr. Hakim, 57, said.

The book did two things: it drew Mr. Hakim into a lifetime of seafaring, and,
with that newfound love, severed him from the Catholic church.

Mr. Hakim's first job was to wipe down the engine room of an iron ore carrier
that traveled the Great Lakes. But he wanted to be at sea, so a year later, in
1974, he headed to the harbor in New York City and began a nearly 30-year career
riding oil barges, eventually as a captain, from the Maine coast to Norfolk, Va.

By the early 1970's, he had met Dianuthra El Is'vara, a Trinidadian Muslim, who
told him to read the Koran. On his first reading, he found the Islamic holy book
''boring,'' he said. But after another try, he said, ''I knew that this was
filling the empty space that I had inside, the spiritual longing.''

Ms. El Is'vara instructed Mr. Hakim to wear a kufi at a Brooklyn mosque in
February 1975, when he was officially converted by reciting the Shahadah, the
declaration of faith in Islam. The cap reminded Mr. Hakim of cartoonish
characters from his childhood who wore beanies with propellers, he said.

''I just saw this silly little cap,'' he said. But after the ceremony, he said
he never removed the kufi again, except to sleep. At first, the men on the barge
teased him, almost coming ''to blows'' with him a few times, said Mr. Hakim, who
changed his name in 1978.

''He prayed on the barge,'' said Charles Chillemi, the president of Mr. Hakim's
union, Local 333 of the International Longshoremen's Association, who worked
with him in the early 1980's. ''He's religious to a fault.''

Mr. Hakim eventually married Ms. El Is'vara, and while he continued to work out
of New York Harbor, they bought a house on Nevis Island in the Caribbean. She
died in 1993; he remarried and now lives there permanently with his wife,
Francine, and two young sons.

Before 9/11 Mr. Hakim never had trouble explaining the round, knitted cap to
Coast Guard officials. But when he went to renew his merchant mariner's document
that served as a license last year, Coast Guard officials in New York City
pointed to a federal code requiring applicants to be photographed with their
heads ''uncovered.'' The code has been in effect since at least 1994.

''That law is hard and fast,'' said Lt. Commander Paul E. Gerecke, the chief of
the Coast Guard's regional examination center. ''It applies to everybody, and we
enforce it uniformly. Whether you are wearing a kufi or a Mets' cap you've got
to take your headdress off to have your photo taken.''

Mr. Hakim refused to remove the kufi and was denied the document: a year later,
he is out of work, despite attempts by Mr. Hakim's union and Senator Charles E.
Schumer to question the decision. He is looking for a lawyer to take his case,
he said.

''I love my country,'' Mr. Hakim said. ''He's asking me to choose between my
country and my God. I can't do that.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Khalid Hakim, a Muslim, refused to take off his kufi for an
identification photo. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)(pg.
B1)
 From left: Gladys Muhammad, Stephanie Lewis and Malikah Alkebulan are suing the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority over an order to remove their head
scarves. They were given different assignments. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The
New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Fear Filing Suits, Advocates Say

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 561 words


Discrimination cases involving Muslims in the workplace, at school and in
airports increased markedly after Sept. 11 but are most commonly brought by
American-born Muslims because immigrants are reluctant to take legal action,
lawyers and civil rights advocates say. A fear of retaliation by employers or
more extreme outcomes, like deportation, drives many Muslim immigrants to stay
quiet.

''There's a definite fear in the undocumented community to have any interaction
with police or law enforcement,'' said Laila Al-Qatami, a spokeswoman for the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee in Washington. ''American citizens
are definitely in a position where they can facilitate through the courts.''

The cases, some of which have been settled by the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, cover a spectrum of harassment and discrimination claims. Children
have been barred from boarding airplanes because their names resembled those on
a terrorist watch list; longtime female employees were suddenly told, after
9/11, to remove their hijabs.

African-American Muslims are among those most likely to file lawsuits, said Omar
T. Mohammedi, a lawyer in New York City who has taken about 20 Muslim
discrimination cases since 9/11.

He is representing Stephanie Lewis, one of four female bus drivers who sued the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority and New York City Transit after, they
said, they were asked to remove their head scarves. Transit agency officials
would not comment on the case because it is in litigation.

Even though two of the female plaintiffs had been driving buses wearing their
hijabs for years, after 9/11 they were told by various supervisors that their
head scarves violated the transit agency's uniform policy, their lawyers said.

By November 2003, after the plaintiffs refused to take off their hijabs or wear
a baseball cap issued by the transit agency over it, they had all been removed
from their passenger bus routes and sent to depots to park and clean buses, they
said.

In June 2004, Kevin Harrington, a 53-year-old Sikh, was temporarily removed from
his job operating the No. 4 train after he declined to take off his turban. Mr.
Harrington, who has worked with the transit agency for 23 years, was vexed: the
agency had given him an award a few years earlier for driving his train backward
on Sept. 11 to keep passengers away from ground zero.

Late last year, the transit agency presented the women and Mr. Harrington with
an alternative: they could wear a blue cloth garment on their heads, with a
transit agency logo patch above their foreheads, their lawyers said. The option
was in keeping with a revision of the agency's uniform policy, which states that
employees can only wear agency-issued headwear, but the women rejected the
offer, their lawyers said. Mr. Harrington has agreed to wear the patch pending
the outcome of his complaint.

The cases took a new turn last month when the Justice Department released to
lawyers a study it conducted of the transit agency in January and February. The
study found that in more than 300 instances, uniformed employees violated policy
by wearing knit hats, baseball caps, berets and other garments. Lawyers for the
plaintiffs said the study confirmed that the transit agency was singling Muslims
and Sikhs out by forcing them to wear special head garments.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 5, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Port To Require Criminal Checks

BYLINE: By Patrick McGeehan (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 76 words


The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey began requiring criminal
background checks on all of its employees and contractors after a man who worked
as a painter on the George Washington Bridge was arrested and turned over to
federal immigration agents, a Port Authority spokesman said yesterday. The man,
who was employed by a painting company, was stopped by the police yesterday
afternoon for tailgating on Route 46 in Ridgefield Park, N.J., said Capt.

Kevin Hartnett of the Bergen County police. His name and the name of his
companion were on lists of immigrants whose visas had expired, said Steve
Siegel, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Newark. The men,
who were not suspected of any involvement in terrorism, were turned over to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Mr. Siegel said.   Patrick McGeehan (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 7, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Celebration in Harlem as Girl Held in Terror Inquiry Is Released

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words


It began with two 16-year-old immigrant girls arrested at dawn, detained far
from home, and, in a chilling government assertion, called would-be suicide
bombers who posed ''an imminent threat to the security of the United States.''

But now, after holding the girls for six weeks in a Pennsylvania detention
center, the government has quietly released one of the girls and is allowing the
other to leave the country with her family.

One girl, an immigrant from Guinea, was back in her East Harlem high school
yesterday among the jubilant friends and teachers who have insisted all along
that the accusation was absurd. The other girl, who grew up in Queens, was still
in detention, but was granted an order from an immigration judge that will allow
her and her parents to return to their native Bangladesh as soon as the trip can
be arranged.

Many questions remain unanswered in a case that has been marked from the start
by secrecy, including closed hearings, sealed F.B.I. declarations, and orders
barring the lawyers from disclosing government information. James Margolin, an
F.B.I. spokesman, did not return calls seeking comment on the latest
developments, and earlier had said he could not discuss the cases.

But Natasha Pierre, the lawyer for the Guinean girl, Adama Bah, said the outcome
spoke for itself. ''She should never have been detained in the first place,''
Ms. Pierre said of her client, who was not yet 2 when she arrived in New York
with her parents, Muslims who have a trinket shop near a subway stop in
Bushwick, Brooklyn. ''I'm still under a gag order and I have to be very careful
not to cross the line. All I can say is she's innocent -- she's more than
innocent. The girl doesn't know anything.''

The teenager's release came with conditions that Ms. Pierre said she was
restrained from discussing. But the lawyer indicated that the conditions
included Adama's being available to government investigators and reporting to
immigration authorities. Her father, Mamadou Bah, a former cabdriver, is in a
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., facing deportation for immigration
violations.

Jessica Siegel, Adama's English teacher, was among many adults in the girl's
life who had described her as a vibrant, popular teenager who wore jeans under
her Islamic garb, ran for student body president, and hung out with the daughter
of the PTA president, a Christian girl, when she was not baby-sitting for her
younger brothers and sisters.

Her return was a joyful celebration. ''She's seeing everybody, and she's smiling
because people are jumping up and down and ecstatic,'' Ms. Siegel said in a
cellphone call from school. ''She's like a little bird that just got out of a
cage.''

Fellow students began laughing and crying at the same time when they saw her
walk in, said a friend, Yolanda Lawrence, 15. Many had tried to send Adama
letters of support, but were told that she was not allowed to receive or send
mail in the maximum security juvenile detention center, in Berks County, Pa.,
and was allowed one five-minute phone call from her mother each week.

The gag order imposed by an immigration judge at the government's insistence
seemed to be weighing on Adama when she emerged briefly from Heritage High
School between classes. She repeated what she had been telling friends and
teachers inside: ''I can't talk about the case.''

But by evening, in her lawyer's office in Brooklyn, she felt safe enough to talk
a bit.

''I'm happy to see my friends, and especially my family,'' she said. When
federal agents released her to her mother, in the family's apartment in East
Harlem, ''my mother couldn't stop smiling.''

Her detention experience remains vivid, though.

''I cried a lot,'' she said. '' You just feel depressed, you just feel like
nothing when you're in there.''

Asked if she understood why she had been detained, the girl replied, ''Honestly,
no.'' She added, speaking of federal agents, ''They asked a lot of questions.''

Ms. Pierre said she herself was at a loss to explain how Adama was swept into
the investigation. She and the Bangladeshi girl, seized separately on March 24,
were not even friends.

Troy Mattes, the lawyer for the Bangladeshi girl, has also said that his client
is no would-be suicide bomber, just a regular teenager devoted to her Islamic
faith. Her name is not being published because she is a minor still in custody
who has not been charged with any crime.

The girl's parents, who have lived in Queens for more than a dozen years, had
their longstanding applications for political asylum closed administratively in
the late 1990's, but had no outstanding deportation orders against them. In
normal circumstances, they might have fought to legalize their immigration
status.

But their daughter's detention changed everything, they said. When the general
consul of Bangladesh pressed for an explanation of her detention, he said the
Department of Homeland Security wrote last week that the girl, who entered the
United States with her mother at the age of 4, was being held solely because she
was in the country illegally.

In response, the girl's parents formally asked the government to let the whole
family leave the country voluntarily.

Mr. Mattes said when he learned of Adama's impending release early Thursday, he
tried for a similar arrangement for his client. ''No dice,'' he said. Yesterday,
an immigration judge signed an order allowing the whole family's departure as
soon as a flight and passports could be arranged.

In the immigration case against Adama's father, deportation is all but
inevitable, according to a lawyer who reviewed the records.

He was granted political asylum in the early 1990's, but under the false claim
that he was from Mauritania, and lost asylum in the late 1990's when he was
found driving a cab under a friend's hack license. Last year he exhausted an
appeal to stay on the basis that deportation to Guinea would be an extraordinary
hardship for his five children, four American-born.

But Adama said she hoped to make her own, separate case for staying in the
United States, the only country she has known.

''I'm really happy that I'm out,'' she said. ''I just don't want them to take me
away again.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adama Bah in her lawyer's office. She said she ''cried a lot''
while she was detained. (Photo by Stephanie Keith for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants in Tennessee Get Certificates to Drive

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN; Ariel Hart contributed reporting from Atlanta for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1223 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, May 6


Behind the counter at the busy Hart Lane driver testing center here, Rosa King
looked over the man's fistful of documents, including a Mexican birth
certificate and a separate, typewritten English translation. The translation,
Ms. King explained in Spanish, was not exact enough. It would have to be redone.

When the man returned, he would be eligible for a card bearing his photograph,
date of birth, height, eye color and the words ''Not Valid for Identification.''

Tennessee is one of only two states that issue two different driver's permits: a
license, for citizens and permanent residents; and a certificate for driving,
primarily for those who cannot prove they are here legally. To satisfy domestic
security concerns, the state has tried to forbid the certificate's use as
identification. Utah also has a two-tiered system.

With Congress preparing to require states to issue driver's licenses only to
citizens and legal residents, other states that want to allow noncitizens to
drive may begin looking to Tennessee's system as a model.

What they will find is the uneasy paradox of a legal document for illegal
immigrants. Police departments, insurance agents, banks and even beer vendors
have been left on their own to decide how to treat the certificates amid the
pitched arguments of conservative legislators and advocates for immigrants.

Critics have complained that the federal bill will require driver's license
examiners to act as the immigration police. Here, to some degree, they do,
ferreting out fraud and navigating the thicket of 994's, H-1B's, H-2A's, green
cards and other papers that confer legal status. If the federal law passes, the
difference here may be one of precision.

''We are just doing the best we can with the documents,'' said Lisa Knight, the
assistant director for driver's license issuance for the Tennessee Department of
Safety. ''If this law passes, we're going to have to look at sending all of our
employees to classes that teach all the different documents.''

Driver's licenses are just one of many issues Tennessee has had to grapple with
as its immigrant population swells. From 1990 to 2000, the state's Hispanic
population nearly quadrupled to 124,000, according to census records. Since July
1, when the certificate program was instituted, more than 21,000 have been
issued.

Gov. Phil Bredesen's office said the certificates made the state's driver's
license policy ''the toughest in the nation.'' But in fact, Tennessee is one of
only 12 states that do not require proof of legal residence to drive legally,
according to the National Immigration Law Center.

The state began allowing people without Social Security numbers to obtain
driver's licenses in May 2001. At the time, some cited Tennessee as an example
of a state that welcomed immigrants and diversity. Almost immediately efforts to
repeal the law began, with lawmakers citing first long lines at driver testing
centers and, after Sept. 11, security concerns. Demand for licenses exploded,
and state officials say the policy attracted illegal immigrants. Mr. Bredesen
said the certificates were a compromise that balanced public safety and domestic
security.

''Its purpose is to make sure people understand the law and the rules of the
road,'' said Melissa McDonald, the spokeswoman for the Department of Safety.
''You can't buy beer with it. You shouldn't be able to board a plane with it.''

Initially the going was rough for officials and for immigrants. Ms. Knight said
that 14 employees, including Ms. King, the Hart Lane center's only Spanish
speaker, had been trained to detect fake documents and to teach others to do so.
But with pressure to keep wait times short, it was hard to excuse employees long
enough for training, Ms. Knight said.

David Lubell, the state coordinator of the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee
Rights Coalition, said his group had helped 15 to 25 immigrants who were
wrongfully told they needed to get the certificate instead of regular licenses.
And, the certificates have posed problems for their bearers. They are rejected
by banks, and Mr. Lubell said there had been reports of insurance agents
refusing to honor them or charging high-risk rates. State officials say
insurance companies are now honoring the certificates.

At the Hart Lane center, Ana Luisa Mirando said she would no longer be able to
visit her nearest relative, a nephew in Virginia. ''I traveled with my license,
but not with this,'' she said, examining her new certificate. It was vertical,
instead of horizontal like the regular license Ms. Mirando, who is from El
Salvador, had until her insurance company notified her that she had failed to
pay a ticket. Her license was suspended, and she had come to reinstate it --
only now, because she is not a permanent resident, she would have to carry the
certificate.

At the offices of the Woodbine Community Center, Nancy Rojas, 29, came for help
gathering the documents required for the certificate. Like many immigrants, Ms.
Rojas came without a passport or other photo identification. Tennessee does not
accept the ''matricula consular'' cards from the Mexican Consulate.

A single mother who works as a hotel housekeeper, Ms. Rojas said she needed to
drive. ''When I went to renew my license, they weren't giving licenses anymore
because I'm not from here,'' said Ms. Rojas, who said her work permit had
expired.

Since then, she said, her bank account has been frozen because she cannot
provide identification. ''I didn't want any problems with the law,'' she said.
''I just wanted ID.''

To keep the certificates from branding their bearers as illegal, immigrant
groups successfully lobbied for them to be issued to temporary legal residents
as well. The certificate must be renewed every year. For temporary residents, it
expires at the same time as their visas. Permanent residents may get licenses.

Jerry Gonzalez, a civil rights lawyer in Nashville, said a separate document for
illegal immigrants amounted to discrimination on the basis of national origin.
''My problem is it treats lawful aliens differently,'' Mr. Gonzalez said.
''They're being punished and treated like second-class citizens, and for what?
So illegal aliens wouldn't have a scarlet letter.''

There was also debate over whether the police would be able to use the
certificates as identification during traffic stops, but now, Ms. McDonald said,
state troopers are told to treat them like regular licenses. That angers
legislators like State Senator Bill Ketron, Republican of Murfreesboro, who
supported the bill because he was told the certificates would not be used as
identification.

Some critics of the law, like Mr. Lubell, say domestic security arguments mask
anti-immigrant sentiment. ''People are just afraid to get it because they're
afraid they're going to be mistreated,'' he said.

But Mr. Ketron makes no bones about his wish for further restrictions on
immigrants. He is backing a proposal to administer the test for a driver's
license only in English. Non-English speakers would have to get a certificate
instead. The Legislature will vote on the proposal next week.

''Basically it was a measure to slow the migration of undocumented or illegal
immigrants into our state,'' Mr. Ketron said, ''because of physical cost that is
continuing to accrue for those who are not legal citizens.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosa King, center, the only Spanish speaker working at the Hart
Lane center in Nashville, is one of the few trained to detect fake documents.
(Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 9, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Before the Flood

BYLINE: By Sujatha Byravan and Sudhir Chella Rajan.

Sujatha Byravan is the president of the Council for Responsible Genetics. Sudhir
Chella Rajan is the head of the Global Politics and Institutions Program at the
Tellus Institute.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


ONE of the paradoxes of global warming is that developing countries, which were
not responsible for most of the greenhouse gas emissions that are changing the
climate and did not reap the benefits of industrialization, will bear the brunt
of the consequences. One of these consequences will be rising seas, which in
turn will generate a surge of ''climate exiles'' who have been flooded out of
their homes in poor countries. How should those of us in rich countries deal
with this wave of immigrants? The fairest solution: allowing the phased
immigration of people living in vulnerable regions according to a formula that
is tied to the host country's cumulative contributions to global warming.

Conservative climate and hydrological models suggest that the average sea level
will rise by about a foot by 2050, regardless of what new actions we take to
reduce greenhouse gases. In some cases, entire nations will disappear; a
harbinger of this is Tuvalu in the Pacific, whose government has asked Australia
and New Zealand to accept its citizens as the sea swallows their island.

What we can do to prevent this is limited: the world's oceans have an enormous
amount of what is called thermal inertia -- a phenomenon that means that the
effects of climactic changes are manifested very slowly. The cumulative impact
of the past 150 years or so of greenhouse gases emitted during industrial
development is only now starting to warm the planet, and that warming will
continue long after we have created sensible policies to reduce greenhouse
gases. So no matter what we do, a wave of climate change exiles is inevitable.

One option for dealing with this is to tighten our borders and inure ourselves
to the exiles' cries for help. A more sensible, and just, approach is for the
top greenhouse gas emitters -- including China and India -- to grant entry to
the up to 200 million people who could lose their homes to rising seas by 2080.

How many should go where? Under our formula, the top cumulative emitter, the
United States, would absorb 21 percent of the climate-change exiles a year; the
smallest of the 20 major emitters, Venezuela, would absorb less than 1 percent.
If such a program were to start in 2010, the United States, for example, would
have to be prepared to accept 150,000 to a half-million immigrants a year for
the next 70 years or so (to put that in context, the United States now has one
million legal immigrants annually). Accepting these immigrants could actually
benefit the host countries; many of them face a demographic crisis with a
shrinking labor force and growing numbers of retirees.

The rising tide from climate change will not create the same conditions
everywhere. While people in rich countries would generally be able to protect
themselves and their property with seawalls, insurance and good warning systems,
the effect of warming will be calamitous for poor countries. A solution like the
one we've suggested may be a relatively painless, yet humanitarian way to deal
with one of the devastating effects of a warming planet.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Religion: Catholic Groups To Work Together For Immigrants

BYLINE: By Laurie Goodstein (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 76 words


Twenty Roman Catholic organizations are joining in a campaign for the rights of
immigrants in the United States. They plan to press lawmakers to create a
program for temporary workers, to legalize illegal immigrants and to establish
more legal protections for immigrants. The 20 groups, representing bishops,
priests, nuns, health care workers, universities and charities, expect to
announce their collaboration today in Washington.   Laurie Goodstein (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Denial of Driver's Licenses To Many Immigrants Voided

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 785 words


A judge ruled yesterday that state motor vehicle authorities may not deny
driver's licenses to immigrants who cannot show that they are in the United
States legally.

In a blunt ruling, Justice Karen S. Smith of State Supreme Court in Manhattan
chastised the State Department of Motor Vehicles, saying it exceeded its
authority in 2002 when it imposed the restriction. She said such decisions were
up to state lawmakers.

Justice Smith said she recognized that the department had rushed to implement
new rules, which require applicants to present either valid Social Security
numbers or legal immigration papers, in an effort to tighten security and combat
fraud after Sept. 11. But she said the agency ''cannot be an enforcer'' for
federal Homeland Security authorities. ''It simply lacks expertise and, more
importantly, it has not been empowered by the State Legislature to carry out
that function,'' the judge wrote.

The ruling came in a lawsuit filed on behalf of five immigrants by the Puerto
Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund. The suit challenged several practices by
the Department of Motor Vehicles, including a plan to suspend the licenses of
about 252,000 drivers, many of them immigrants, who gave Social Security numbers
that were found to be invalid in a department investigation.

Justice Smith's ruling added fuel to an increasingly ardent debate in New York
about illegal immigrants' rights. State motor vehicle officials argue that the
license crackdown is necessary to stop terrorists and criminals from acquiring
legal forms of identification. But New York lawmakers from districts with many
immigrants argue that the tighter rules will force those who are illegal to
drive without licenses, making it harder to know who is driving on American
roads.

Raymond P. Martinez, the state's motor vehicles commissioner, said the agency
would appeal the ruling. ''By meeting our statutory obligations to ensure that
applicants for driver's licenses are who they say they are, New York State is
fighting fraud and protecting New Yorkers from terrorism and other criminal
acts,'' he said in a statement. New York's licenses are ''among the most secure
in the nation,'' he said.

In practice, Justice Smith's ruling is not likely to have any immediate effect.
In February, when she first got the case, she issued a temporary restraining
order to block the identification rules. But that order was suspended when the
state immediately appealed it. The ruling yesterday, in which she issued a more
long-lasting injunction, was a more detailed statement of her legal argument.
That ruling will also be suspended during the state's appeal.

The ruling could put New York on a collision course with a bill that is expected
to pass Congress and be signed by President Bush, perhaps by the end of the
week. The Real ID act, as it is known, in effect will require states to identify
illegal immigrant drivers. The act, which was passed by the House on Thursday
and was being debated in the Senate yesterday, bars illegal immigrants from
using driver's licenses to board airplanes or do business with the federal
government.

The New York Department of Motor Vehicles changed its rules in April 2002 to
require that license applicants present either valid Social Security numbers or
legal immigration papers. Immigrants also had to show that they had current
visas good for at least one year, with at least six months left to run. The
agency began to issue ''temporary visitor'' licenses that were valid only as
long as the visas.

Justice Smith's ruling strikes down the temporary visitor licenses. But she goes
further, to warn the state that it may not use an applicant's immigration status
to deny a driver's license. The ruling also bars the department from suspending
the licenses of drivers with invalid Social Security numbers. In 2002, the
agency conducted a check of the Social Security numbers of all licenseholders.
Of 11.5 million licenses in the state, the department could not verify the
numbers of about 600,000 people, according to the ruling. The department sent
letters giving them 15 days to provide valid numbers or have their licenses
suspended. About 252,000 people did not respond.

The judge found that the department had failed to say in its letter that the
drivers could also provide a document showing why they were ineligible for
Social Security benefits.

Cesar Perales, the general counsel for the Puerto Rican legal defense group,
said, ''I don't think anybody thinks the real impact of these rules is that
immigrants will stop driving,'' Mr. Perales said. ''The implication of this
ruling is that real harm is done to people when they are denied licenses.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: 95 Arrested In Gang Sweep

BYLINE: By Jennifer 8. Lee (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 78 words


Federal and local officials yesterday announced the arrests of 95 illegal
immigrant gang members in the New York City area.

The arrests, including 33 this week, were made during the past four months in
New York City and Yonkers and on Long Island, the officials said. The defendants
will face deportation proceedings, said Martin Ficke, the special agent in
charge of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement's New York City
office.   Jennifer 8. Lee (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Just Like Mama Makes

BYLINE: By ADAM BOWLES

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1226 words


THE seven students, all immigrants, who walked through the cafeteria line at
Huntington Elementary School in Norwich on a recent Friday broke into smiles
over the main dish of the day -- pizza.

And when it's not pizza, these children from Haiti, China and the Dominican
Republic are more than happy to eat hot dogs, peanut butter and jelly sandwiches
or chicken nuggets.

And that's O.K. with Roberta Russell, food services coordinator for Norwich
Public Schools and its some 4,000 elementary and middle school students.

But wouldn't it be nice if these pupils and their peers had the choice of
occasionally eating something typical of their homelands?

Ms. Russell thinks so, and is soliciting recipes from parents and kitchen
workers across the district with the hope of offering international fare on the
menus next fall, an idea inspired by the growing numbers of immigrant students
who are moving here as their parents find jobs at the region's two casinos.

''The makeup of the city of Norwich has drastically changed in the last 10
years,'' Ms. Russell said. ''We have noticed it in all the different kitchens
and on the free and reduced lunch forms. But the first thing they become
acquainted with is the golden arches, fast food.''

Like Norwich, school districts in Connecticut with high immigrant populations
are tweaking their menus to give their pupils variety and help newcomers feel at
home.

Bridgeport offers Caribbean dishes to reflect the tastes of the city's Cuban,
Haitian, Jamaican and Dominican students. Hartford eliminated pork products
because of the concerns of the city's Muslim, mostly Bosnian, population. New
Haven offers Chinese meals complete with fortune cookies. Windham Public Schools
is interested in satisfying the appetites of its large Hispanic population,
though school officials haven't yet found recipes that stack up to mom's
versions.

These decisions are left up to the individual school districts, though Susan
Fiore, nutrition education coordinator for the state's Department of Education,
likes what she hears.

''We encourage them to consider students' dietary culture,'' said Ms. Fiore,
whose office reports that 52 percent of 532,749 students statewide participate
in the National School Lunch Program this school year. ''Schools need to
consider the preferences of their students. That's their customer.''

Officials at Aramark, a nationwide food services company, said the trend of
offering new ethnic meals has been evident across the country for the past two
years. The company serves 420 school districts along with 10 districts in
Connecticut, including Norwich Free Academy and New Fairfield Public Schools.

The change was a result of growing populations of immigrants from Eastern
Europe, the Caribbean and the Middle East and a reaction to some troubling
eating habits.

''Kids weren't eating,'' said Carolina Lobo, vice president for marketing at
Aramark. ''It had become so boring and predictable and not relevant to them.''

Looking for answers, Aramark conducted a national study of the lunchroom habits
and preferences of 713 students in grades 6 through 12 that was completed in
January 2004.

Not surprisingly, pizza (23 percent) and chicken (12 percent) were listed most
often as their favorite foods. But ethnic meals ranked high, especially Italian
(9 percent ) and Mexican (8 percent).

''They also wanted to eat Asian because that's what they were used to,'' Ms.
Lobo said. ''They wanted to try different things. A lot of these cultures lend
themselves to very nutritious meals. They are baked, feature noodles and are not
greasy and fried.''

In Bridgeport, Maura O'Malley, acting director of the food and nutrition center,
said the district had introduced Jamaican meat pies in its elementary schools
some 18 months ago. They were an immediate hit -- some 12,000 pies were served
in one day, compared with 3,000 chicken-tender portions -- and are now part of
the menu.

''For it to go up against chicken tenders and be that successful, that's a big
stamp of approval,'' Ms. O'Malley said.

The baked meat pies, which feature shredded beef, brown gravy, onions and
celery, were offered after students in a meeting with the superintendent
requested more Caribbean meals.

School officials say the district's Jamaican student population is growing with
208 Jamaicans in 2000-1 and 254 in 2004-5.

Emmanuel Ephie, a 17-year-old student at Bassick High School in Bridgeport, said
he and his peers are eager to try new food, though he finds it takes time to get
used to items other than the standard fare.

''I see they have diversified the selection nowadays,'' said Mr. Ephie, who
moved to the United States from Nigeria in 1997. ''You get accustomed to fries,
hamburgers, chicken nuggets.''

Yolanda (Lonnie) Bert, the food service director of Hartford Public Schools,
said she immediately changed the breakfast and lunch menus to reflect the
growing Bosnian -- and predominantly Muslim -- population after taking over her
job more than a year ago.

A handful of Muslim parents have voiced concern about making sure their children
are not served anything with pork, which is prohibited by their religion. So
pepperoni has been eliminated from pizza; hot dogs and sausages are now made of
turkey; and ham, salami and meatballs are no longer on the menu.

In New Haven, students represent 71 countries and 49 languages, according to
Catherine Sullivan-DeCarlo, the food services coordinator. Of the district's
20,000 students, 55 percent are black, 31 percent are Hispanic and 11 percent
are white. While only 1.24 percent are Asian, the number of Chinese students is
growing and Chinese has become one of the top five languages spoken in the
district.

To reflect this diversity, the district's $9 million central kitchen, in
partnership with Aramark, offers beef fajitas, sweet-and-sour chicken and these
menu items:

$(6$)Beef-a-yaki: beef slices cooked with sesame seeds in a teriyaki sauce and
served with rice and packaged in a traditional Chinese carry-out container. It
includes a fortune cookie.

$(6$)Chicken grande: chicken, rice, beans, salsa and cheeses wrapped and baked
in a tortilla and served with a cilantro lime sauce.

$(6$)So-sesame chicken: diced chicken, cooked with sesame seeds in a teriyaki
sauce and served with rice. This also comes in a carry-out container and with a
fortune cookie.

Ms. Sullivan-DeCarlo said the dishes met or exceeded all the nutritional
guidelines established by the state and federal governments and by the
district's own Healthy Kids First program.

Luis Rodriguez, Aramark's marketing specialist for New Haven's more than 50
schools, said many of the Hispanic students arrive at the beginning of the
school year and cannot speak English. Menus are now posted in Spanish and
English.

Windham Public Schools has offered its 3,500 students chicken tacos, taco salads
and beans and rice dishes as specialty items, said Carol Flannery, food service
director the last 17 years.

''We'd love to do more,'' she said.

The problem Ms. Flannery found is that many of her Mexican and Puerto Rican
students eat their ethnic foods at home and prefer to eat pizzas and pastas
offered in school. The Hispanic students also find the rice and bean dishes too
bland.

''The kids aren't receptive to it,'' she said. ''They say, 'You don't make it
like my mom.'''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Where's the fortune cookie? Students at Fair Haven Middle
School in New Haven with beef-a-yaki, served in a Chinese carry-out container.
 Pizza being served at Hill Regional Career High School in New Haven. The
district's students represent 71 countries, and the district is looking for a
more international cafeteria menu. (Photographs by Carl David LaBianca for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Arrests Cuban Exile Accused In Deadly '76 Airline Bombing

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Tim Weiner contributed reporting from New York for
this article, and Terry Aguayo from Miami.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 17


Immigration officials arrested Luis Posada Carriles, a Cuban exile suspected in
a deadly airplane bombing and other attacks, on Tuesday, weeks after he slipped
into the United States and shortly after he withdrew an application for
political asylum.

The Bush administration, which had been mostly silent about Mr. Posada's
presence and until Tuesday denied knowing if he was even in the country, faced
growing pressure from Cuba and its ally Venezuela to extradite him. Critics had
questioned why the United States would not root out a suspected terrorist, even
one hailed by Cuban exiles as a freedom fighter against Fidel Castro.

As the Department of Homeland Security detained the 77-year-old Mr. Posada,
hundreds of thousands of Cubans in Havana participated in a protest march
against him, which Mr. Castro described as ''against terrorism and in favor of
our people's life and peace.'' Mr. Castro had furiously accused Mr. Bush of
sheltering Mr. Posada, a former Central Intelligence Agency operative, in recent
weeks.

Government officials would not discuss why, where or how they arrested Mr.
Posada, 77, though on Tuesday night, Russ Knocke, a spokesman for United States
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said: ''Today is the first time there was
verifiable information about his presence in the country. We had received leads
prior to today, which we pursued, but they ultimately did not go very far.''

One of Mr. Posada's associates said he was detained at a private home in
Southwest Miami-Dade County. His lawyer, Eduardo Soto, said he was taken to
Homestead Air Force Base and flown by military helicopter to an undisclosed
location.

Immigration officials had scheduled an interview with Mr. Posada in Miami early
Tuesday regarding his asylum request. But he did not show up, Mr. Soto said.
Hours later, Mr. Posada held a furtive news conference to deny involvement in
the Cuban airliner bombing, which killed 73 people off the coast of Barbados in
1976, and to say he may withdraw his asylum application to avoid causing trouble
for the United States.

''I have lived clandestinely for more than 30 years,'' Mr. Posada said at the
news conference, which he held near Hialeah under strict terms and was later
broadcast on local television news programs. ''If my request for political
asylum should become a problem for the United States government, I am willing to
reconsider my request.'' A few hours later, through his lawyer, he withdrew his
application. He was arrested about an hour later.

The New York Times declined to attend the news conference because of the terms,
which included being driven by Mr. Posada's associates to an undisclosed place
and agreeing to ask questions only on certain topics.

Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for United States Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the agency had 48 hours to determine ''what we are charging
him with and what his custody status will be.''

In a written statement, the Department of Homeland Security said that it ''does
not generally remove people to Cuba'' or ''to countries believed to be acting on
Cuba's behalf.'' Mr. Castro has a close relationship with Hugo Chavez, the
Venezuelan president, whose country officially asked the United States last week
to extradite Mr. Posada so it could retry him for the airliner bombing.

Newly declassified F.B.I. documents from 1976 places Mr. Posada, who had been a
senior Venezuelan intelligence officer, at two meetings where the bombing was
planned. Some experts following the case said the document complicated Mr.
Posada's request for asylum, though his lawyer did not mention it on Tuesday.

At a news conference in Coral Gables, Mr. Soto said he had asked the Department
of Homeland Security not to question his client without a lawyer present and to
look after Mr. Posada's health. Mr. Posada was shot in the face in an attempt on
his life in Guatemala in 1990, and his speech is permanently slurred as a
result.

Mr. Soto questioned why the United States did not let Mr. Posada leave quietly
after he withdrew his asylum application. ''It's clear that by formally
withdrawing his application for asylum,'' Mr. Soto said, ''that his intent was
to abandon the United States, and they simply could have let him go.''

Mr. Soto added, however, that he would renew Mr. Posada's asylum application
because of the arrest. Mr. Posada was seeking asylum for having served as a cold
war soldier on the payroll of the C.I.A. in the 1960's, Mr. Soto told reporters
last month.

In an interview with The Miami Herald last week that was not published until
Tuesday, Mr. Posada said he was hiding less these days because it seemed that
the United States was not looking for him. He told The Herald that he took a bus
from Houston to Miami after crossing into Texas with a smuggler, and that while
here, he had read Confucius and painted Cuban landscapes.

Pepe Hernandez, president of the Cuban American National Foundation, an exile
group in Miami, said that the United States had the right to question Mr. Posada
if he entered the country illegally but that the timing of the arrest was bad.

''To wait for Fidel Castro to put together a rally and to go and detain him
almost at the same hour is something I don't understand,'' Mr. Hernandez said.

Mr. Posada was released from prison in Panama last year after that country
pardoned him for a conviction in a bomb plot against Mr. Castro in 2000.
Venezuela wants to retry him for the airline bombing, and the Cuban government
wants to prosecute him for hotel bombings that damaged tourist spots in Havana
and killed an Italian visitor in 1997.

Mr. Posada said in the news conference Tuesday that he had nothing to do with
the 1976 airplane bombing, adding, ''I repudiate that abominable action as a
case of terrorism.'' But in his earlier interview with The Miami Herald, he
would not confirm or deny involvement in the 1997 attacks, saying, ''Let's leave
it to history.''

In a 1998 interview with The New York Times, Mr. Posada said he organized the
hotel bombings in Cuba the previous year.

The government's plans for Mr. Posada -- extraditing him, keeping him jailed for
illegal entry or granting him asylum -- remained uncertain, as did his
whereabouts. Nor was it clear just how much of a political risk his detention
was for President Bush, who with his brother Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida counts on
South Florida's Cuban exiles for financial and political support.

But Steven Schwadron, the chief of staff for Representative Bill Delahunt, a
Massachusetts Democrat who has lobbied the Bush administration to expel Mr.
Posada, said there was no excuse to keep him here. ''You can't pick and choose
the ideology of a particular terrorist without undermining the fundamental
integrity of the global war on terror,'' Mr. Schwadron said. ''Mr. Posada does
not belong in the United States.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis Posada Carriles, left, held a furtive news conference
yesterday in Florida, hours before he was taken into custody. Mr. Posada, a
Cuban exile, denied being involved in a 1976 airline bombing that killed 73
people. (Photo by Tim Chapman/The Miami Herald, via Associated Press)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Immigrant Students, Math Is One Road to Success

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip.

E-mail: edmike@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1034 words

DATELINE: QUINCY, Mass.


I GREW up in this blue-collar suburb of Boston, graduated from the public
schools and for the last three decades have returned regularly to visit family.
Over time, the city has changed and yet remained Quincy.

While the ethnic mix shifted some, families move here for the same reason my
parents did 50 years ago: The housing is affordable, the subway ride to Boston
is short, and Quincy public schools still send their top students to the best
colleges. Though there has been an influx of Asian immigrants since the 1980's
and most of the Jewish families have moved away, Quincy High remains as it was
when I was a teenager, predominantly white and working-class.

So it was a surprise to see the photograph in the weekly paper, The Quincy Sun.
There, on Page 7, was the Quincy High math club, and 17 of 18 members were
Asian. Mathematically, it made no sense. Quincy High is 22 percent Asian; why is
the math club 94.4 percent Asian?

Evelyn Ryan, the math department head, says that before the influx of Asian
families began, there was one calculus class of 10 students; now there are two
calculus classes totaling 40 students, 75 percent of them Asian.

I wanted to ask math club members why Asian students are so good in math. As I
was to learn, it wasn't such a simple question.

Most Asians at Quincy High have been in America only a few years, from China,
Vietnam and Thailand. Most know little English when they arrive and are placed
in E.S.L. classes (English as a second language.) ''When I was a freshman, half
year in U.S., English is a big problem,'' said Chaoran Xie, a junior now. ''I
just know, 'Hello how are you?' History is a big problem. You don't openly
express yourself because you don't know what to say and stuff. In history it's a
simple idea, but you don't have the basic English.''

Chaoran feels fortunate to be in America and Quincy, but says it's hard. ''It's
lonely,'' he said. ''You are in a class, you are looking, you stand more on the
side. People are talking, you have no one to talk to.''

Math, he says, was the exception. In math, English didn't matter.

''I feel my confidence from math,'' he said.

Jing Gui, a junior two years here, said that he had no white friends. ''We are
immigrants,'' he said. ''We speak different languages. We have a different
culture. People tell something in class we don't know about. A lot of things we
don't know. I come here, I want to join some club. Suddenly I hear about math
club. It's like Chaoran said, we come to math club to find the confidence.''

There are dozens of organizations and sports at the school, but math is Jing's
only club.

''When I first come, I not feel confidence making friends with white kids,''
said Vu Chu, who arrived from Vietnam two years ago. ''It's more easier for more
confidence with other Asian kids. They understand my experience.''

Math club?

''It's really an exciting activity,'' Vu said. ''It's like proving you're
smart.''

Many states have problems assessing immigrant children because standardized math
tests are mainly word problems. Quincy High has developed a math placement test
without a word of English, just equations and calculations.

''Math is a universal language,'' Ms. Ryan said. ''Even if they don't get the
right answer, you can tell by the way they work it through, what they know. We
have kids, they don't speak a word of English but they're ready for
pre-calculus. I put them right in where they can succeed.''

Haidong Huang was the top calculus student of 1997. ''Although in calculus he
was breathtakingly articulate,'' Ms. Ryan said, ''he didn't talk in class. It
was November, he was looking out the window and said, 'This is my first time to
see snow.' That was the first English he spoke to me.''

There are people who have seen the math club photo and say Asians are just
naturally good at math, but Ms. Ryan does not believe that. She has seen plenty
of bad Asian math students. She believes it's partly cultural, that math and
mathematicians are championed over there the way reading and writers are here.

The Asian students, who were mainly middle class in their homelands, said that
math instruction moved faster there, but it was a mixed blessing, since many
were left behind. Jia Wei Chen said that only three of her seven cousins in
China went to college, which is why her family emigrated. ''A lot of people are
not given a chance there,'' she said. ''Here everyone can go to college.''

THERE was no math club until 1999, when Sixin Lu asked Ms. Ryan. ''She didn't
speak much English,'' Ms. Ryan said. ''I could tell she'd been rehearsing her
lines. She had that practice sound in her voice -- 'Do you have a math club
here?' I said: 'No. But you get me 20 names we'll start one.''' Sixin was back
by day's end with 20 names, and ran the club the next four years.

Today, Sixin is a math club legend. The girl who arrived in 1999 not speaking
English became a freshman at Cal Tech in 2003. While she is the exception (most
math club members go to less-competitive colleges), she is not alone. Christine
Huang went to Tufts, Bao Truong to M.I.T. and Felicia Tam to Stanford.

Ms. Ryan feared the club might collapse after Sixin left, but it thrives,
meeting for an hour and a half each Monday. To solve problems, they break into
groups, sometimes by homeland -- the Chinese, the Vietnamese, the Thais.

''When they're doing problems they speak in tongues; I don't understand what
they're saying,'' Ms. Ryan said. ''But at the end, they have to defend it in
English.''

The math club has become the school's de facto Asian social club. ''I know many
friends not Asian I asked to join,'' said Wai Man Fan, a ninth grader. ''Only a
few come once or twice, then didn't come.''

Why? ''They said too many Asians,'' Wai said.

In the photo, there's one white student. ''I'm not really white, I'm Albanian,''
said Dhimiter Kondili, who came here five years ago and will attend Tufts. As to
why even top white students don't join, he said: ''Whites play a lot of sports.
They take math, but they want to get it over with.''

So the better question is: Why do Asians gravitate to math? And the answer, at
least at Quincy High, is it's their best shot to excel in a new land.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: This year's math club at Quincy High School in Massachusetts,
where Evelyn Ryan, far right, has been the adviser since 1999. Many club members
have gone on to attend top-flight United States colleges. (Photo by Kevin
Libby/Lincoln Studios Inc.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuban Exile Is Charged With Illegal Entry

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER; Maria Herrera contributed reporting from Miami for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 823 words


Homeland Security Department officials said Thursday that they had charged Luis
Posada Carriles, the violent anti-Castro militant, with illegally entering the
United States.

The charge could be the first step in the deportation of Mr. Posada, 77, who
resurfaced outside Miami and was arrested on Tuesday after 45 years of shadowy
combat against Fidel Castro.

It also represents a legal and political dilemma for the Bush administration.

Mr. Posada, who served both the Central Intelligence Agency and Venezuela's spy
service in the 1960's and 1970's, is wanted in Venezuela in connection with the
1976 bombing of a Cuban airliner off the coast of Barbados that killed 73
people. The government of Venezuela wants to extradite him under international
law.

United States officials have not said whether or not they want to deport Mr.
Posada. They have indicated that they would not willingly send him to Venezuela,
Cuba's closest ally in the Western Hemisphere.

''This is a case that the Department of Homeland Security now will handle,''
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Thursday. ''The issues here concern
understanding the record of Mr. Posada and then making judgments about what that
means about his request'' for asylum. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement
division of the Department of Homeland Security said Mr. Posada had been charged
with illegally entering the country, was being held without bond and would see
an immigration judge on June 13.

A Cuban exile who signed up with the C.I.A. before the Bay of Pigs invasion in
1961 and received training in espionage and explosives from American military
and intelligence officers, Mr. Posada joined the Venezuelan intelligence service
in 1969 and left it as a senior official in 1974, according to declassified
United States government documents.

His lawyer, Eduardo Soto, who earlier this week said he would withdraw a request
for political asylum for his client, said on Thursday that he would reinstate
it, citing Mr. Posada's work with the C.I.A. against Mr. Castro in the 1960's,
and the possibility that he would be persecuted in Venezuela.

The legal standard for a grant of political asylum is ''a well-founded fear of
persecution,'' not of prosecution.

Mr. Soto said Mr. Posada would claim that he was granted legal residency in the
United States in 1962, when he was working with the United States against Mr.
Castro.

''I believe he is legally in this country now,'' Mr. Soto said.

In Venezuela, Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel told reporters that his
government ''is not demanding Posada Carriles out of revenge, nor as a
consequence of the cold war, or the friendship that exists with Cuba.''

''It cannot be that there is a good terrorism and a bad terrorism,'' Mr. Rangel
said. ''Even if there were no Cuba, we would be demanding Posada Carriles,
because this is about the Venezuelan state carrying out justice.''

Mr. Posada spent nine years in a Venezuelan prison during trials and retrials on
charges that he conspired to bomb the Cuban airliner. He escaped in 1985 and
went underground to join a C.I.A. operation in El Salvador in an effort to help
anti-Communist Nicaraguan rebels.

He admitted masterminding bombings at tourist spots in Havana in 1997 that were
intended to destabilize Cuba and terrorize people. One of the bombs killed an
Italian visitor in Havana.

He was jailed in Panama in connection with a bomb plot against Mr. Castro in
2000, convicted, and then pardoned by Panama's president nine months ago.

''I am not renouncing violence,'' Mr. Posada said at a televised news conference
held in an airplane hangar outside Miami shortly before he was arrested on
Tuesday. He acknowledged entering the United States secretly through Mexico in
mid-March.

He was arrested by immigration officers hours after he emerged from hiding to
meet with reporters. He is being held at a federal detention center in El Paso.

Mr. Castro has branded Mr. Posada a terrorist. Because the United States
government refused to acknowledge that Mr. Posada had entered the country, even
after his presence was widely publicized by his allies in the Cuban-American
communities of South Florida, Mr. Castro has accused President Bush of a double
standard on terrorism -- one for the enemies of the United States, another for
their foes.

In Maximo Gomez Park in the Little Havana section of Miami, where mostly older
Cuban-Americans gathered to play dominoes on Thursday afternoon, Mr. Posada
received support for his cause, if not necessarily his tactics.

''He is not a terrorist,'' said Armando Delcristo, 66, who manages the park for
the city's parks and recreation department. ''He's a man who fought for Cuba's
freedom; he's a patriot. He's not a terrorist like the Cubans and Venezuelans
want to make it seem. The charges against him are very wrong.''

''He shouldn't be extradited,'' Mr. Delcristo said. ''The one they should be
putting in jail is Fidel Castro.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eduardo Soto, Luis Posada Carriles's lawyer, yesterday in Miami.
(Photo by Carlos Barria/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Missing Paperwork Delayed Attack Inquiry, Police Say

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE and JANON FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 592 words


Missing paperwork delayed the police investigation into an attack that killed a
Bangladeshi immigrant in Brooklyn for nearly two weeks, a Police Department
spokesman said yesterday.

The victim, Mofizur Rahaman, 53, was beaten by a group of teenagers during a
robbery on the evening of May 6 at Chester Avenue and Minna Street in Borough
Park, less than a block from his apartment, the police said. He was taken to
Lutheran Medical Center, where he died on Wednesday.

Until his death, no paperwork was filed on the initial assault because of a
misunderstanding between two police officers who had worked on the case.

''One guy thought one guy did the paperwork, and the other one thought the other
one did the paperwork,'' said a police official who declined to be identified
publicly because the department had issued an official statement about the case.

Investigators do not think the attack was a bias crime, the official said,
adding, ''We're sensitive to the fact he's Bangladeshi.''

Mr. Rahaman came to the United States in 1992 from the Bangladeshi state of
Companigonj, according to his roommate, Ruhul A. Manik, who said the victim sold
incense and oil at a shop on Atlantic Avenue and sent money home to his wife,
three daughters and a son. He had not seen his family since 1992.

''He was a peaceful man,'' Mr. Manik said. ''He never had a problem with
anybody.'' He said the Companigonj Welfare Association, of which he is general
secretary, will hold a rally on Sunday on Chester Avenue to call attention to
the attack. ''We want justice,'' he said. ''We don't want more violence against
us.''

Immediately after the attack, he said, the Police Department ''didn't do
anything, but now they are very active.'' Still, he said, ''people in the
community are very angry.''

The Police Department's deputy commissioner for public affairs, Paul J. Browne,
said that difficulties in finding a translator for Mr. Rahaman also contributed
to the delay in the investigation. The first translator did not speak the same
dialect as the victim so a second translator had to be brought in to interview
him.

Two police supervisors who oversaw both interviews each thought the other had
filed a report for the detectives. ''As a result, the complaint never went to
detectives as it should have,'' Mr. Browne said in a statement.

The missing paperwork came to light when the hospital notified the police about
Mr. Rahaman's death, the police said. Officers could not find a report about the
original assault, but they reconstructed what happened by looking at police
records from the day of the attack and interviewing the police supervisors.

The police have ''important leads,'' Mr. Browne said, as a result of a
surveillance video and interviews with witnesses to the assault.

The video came from the surveillance system of an Amoco gas station at Fort
Hamilton Parkway and Chester Avenue, one block from the site of the attack,
according to Kirk Ozdemir, a 28-year-old clerk at the station. One camera, which
points toward the intersection, caught a group of five or six teenagers all
wearing hooded sweatshirts going east on Fort Hamilton Parkway about 8 p.m., Mr.
Ozdemir said.

A video from inside the store also shows Mr. Rahaman buying a cup of coffee
shortly before the attack, he said.

The neighborhood, where tomato plants grow in the backyards of two-family brick
houses, is considered safe, neighbors said. ''In the 10 years that I've been
here, I've never heard anything like this -- someone being beaten in this
area,'' Mr. Ozdemir said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mofizur Rahaman.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 24, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Family of Strivers Faces Deportation to a Country They Barely Recall

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Caught in a Net Thrown for
Terrorists; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1635 words


It was a controversial program from the outset. In the hunt for terrorists after
9/11, the government required men in the United States from more than 20
Muslim-majority countries to be fingerprinted, photographed and questioned at
immigration centers.

There is much debate over whether the program succeeded in gathering information
about terrorist activities. An estimated 83,000 men came forward, but government
officials would not say whether any have been charged with terrorism-related
offenses, only that a handful were linked to terrorism. Eventually, the
Department of Homeland Security shifted its resources, and in April 2003 the
program, known as Special Registration, was largely suspended and forgotten.

Still, for many the program has lived on; roughly 13,000 of the men who stepped
forward were placed into deportation proceedings after immigration officers
discovered that they were living here without legal status. Among them are men
like Kamal, Hassan and Housseine Essaheb, three brothers from Queens who fit
only the profile of classic immigrant success, minus the proper paperwork.

For them, Special Registration is far from over and could soon exact its toll.

''It's like losing your whole life,'' said Kamal Essaheb, 23, a law student at
Fordham University who came to the United States from Morocco 13 years ago.
After an extended trek through the court system, the Essaheb brothers believe
they will be ordered deported at hearings in June and July. They hold few
memories from the country of their birth, and speak only wisps of Arabic and
French.

''It's not too different from putting us anywhere else,'' Kamal Essaheb said of
being sent to Morocco. ''My house isn't there. I can't go to my bedroom. I can't
get on the J train and close my eyes for 20 minutes and be home. It's not
Queens. It's not where we belong.''

It is impossible to fully know this universe of men, who they are, why they came
here and how many have remained. Hundreds boarded planes or fled to Canada with
their families after Special Registration began in the summer of 2002. Others
have chosen to stay and challenge the policy in court, buying time with appeals.
And some have slipped into hiding as they continue to earn a living here
illegally.

The Essaheb brothers, who are pursuing graduate degrees and have no criminal
record, are not isolated examples. Like many other Muslim immigrants who wanted
to comply with the law, the Essahebs appear to have been caught up in a program
aimed at finding a vastly different group of men.

''It was the right program at the time,'' said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the
Department of Homeland Security. ''National security was one important element
of that program with a broader objective of increasing integrity in the
immigration system.''

Kamal Essaheb remembers clearly the day he learned he was different from his
classmates at the Bronx High School of Science. He dreamed of becoming an
engineer and mentioned to a college counselor that he planned to apply to Johns
Hopkins and Carnegie Mellon. The counselor told him she needed his Social
Security number. He learned at home that evening that he had no such number.

''It was a pretty weird moment,'' Kamal Essaheb said.

He and his brothers are among an estimated 65,000 illegal immigrants who
graduate from high schools in the United States every year. Federal law prevents
them from receiving government-backed financial aid, though some still find
their way to college with scholarships and by attending less expensive state
universities.

Kamal Essaheb lowered his sights and attended Queens College, where he became
editor of the student newspaper and graduated cum laude in 2002. His younger
twin brothers, Hassan and Housseine, were fast on his heels: Hassan planned to
become a stock trader and Housseine an actuary.

To understand the drive of the Essaheb brothers, one need only meet their
parents, who declined to give their first names for fear they could also face
deportation. The couple came to America on a whim, but unlike many immigrants,
the life they left behind was better, in many ways, than the one they acquired.
In Casablanca, they owned a spacious apartment, had two maids and sent their
sons to private schools.

Mr. Essaheb was an entrepreneur who sold medical products before starting a
jewelry design company, and Mrs. Essaheb worked as a tax inspector. But the
parents, who loved books and Italian cinema, lived under a repressive monarchy
and worried that their children would grow up with limited exposure to the
world.

''It's not about money sometimes,'' Mrs. Essaheb, 49, said. ''When we arrived to
J.F.K., I can't tell you how I felt. I felt so free.''

It was the first and last airplane trip the boys, then 11 and 9, ever took. The
family headed straight to Astoria, Queens, where thousands of Moroccans have
settled. Mr. Essaheb was soon hired as a caseworker for Islamic Family Services
in Queens. The agency agreed to sponsor him for a green card, but the papers it
filed were incomplete, he said.

Mr. Essaheb became a taxi driver and started a newspaper, Attawassul News, on
the side. He often drives with his laptop on the seat next to him, composing his
monthly editorial. In 1995, the Essahebs bought a two-story stucco house in
Woodhaven.

Kamal, Hassan and Housseine Essaheb seem to have skipped the typical adolescence
of rebellion and separation; they still come home most days before dark and
spend their weekends playing hockey, or watching movies with their parents.

The twins are now 22. Hassan is pursuing a master's degree in financial
engineering at Columbia University. Housseine is taking graduate courses in
economics at Queens College. Only Kamal changed academic tracks. He was ready to
apply to an economics program at Hunter College in January 2003 when he learned
that Moroccans living in the United States had been asked to register with the
government.

A few days later, the brothers and their father silently rode the subway to 26
Federal Plaza in Lower Manhattan. The Essahebs were questioned, photographed,
fingerprinted and asked to turn in their passports. One officer asked Kamal
Essaheb if he was a terrorist, he recalled.

''That was the day I decided to go to law school,'' Kamal said. ''That was the
day I felt injustice in a way I could not conceptualize before.''

All four Essaheb men were placed into deportation proceedings, but a government
lawyer asked an immigration judge to toss out the father's case. Mr. Essaheb's
sons were not as lucky.

Kamal Essaheb applied to Fordham University's law school two months later, and
during his first year there distinguished himself by winning a coveted Stein
scholarship, for aspiring public interest lawyers. He stayed quiet about his
legal troubles, juggling schoolwork with the job of representing himself and his
brothers at hearings in court.

''It's kind of unimaginable to me what it must be like going through law school
and to have -- on top of the regular concerns you have as a law student -- this
incredible, overriding concern about being deported,'' said William M. Treanor,
the dean of the school.

In the summer of 2004, Kamal Essaheb went to work as a legal intern for
Sanctuary for Families, an agency for victims of domestic violence. There, he
began talking to an immigration lawyer, Julie E. Dinnerstein, about his case.

Ms. Dinnerstein, 36, quickly realized he needed a lawyer, she said, and has been
representing the Essahebs ever since. She can often be found at the Essaheb
home, surrounded by briefs and other papers, strategizing late into the night.
At her urging, Mr. Essaheb finally spoke publicly about his case on a panel at
Fordham in April, which prompted the students to begin a letter-writing
campaign. So far, 1,150 letters have been submitted to the government lawyers
pursuing the case.

The effort seems to have made no difference, Ms. Dinnerstein said. Mr. Knocke
said he could not comment about the case.

''I joke all the time that this case is going to break my heart and I'm going to
become a shelver of books in a library,'' she said one afternoon as she sat in
the Essahebs' living room.

Hassan and Housseine Essaheb are more reluctant to speak publicly. They have yet
to tell their oldest friends, the young Italian-Americans with whom they play
hockey every week.

Food is the measure of stress in the Essaheb home. On difficult days, baklava
and cornes de gazelle pile up on the dining room table. Platters of beef,
couscous and fried fish stream endlessly from the kitchen. Mrs. Essaheb learned
to cook after the family left Morocco and soon the kitchen became her domain and
food her firmest hold on the men in her house. Lately, she bakes at all hours.

''I don't want them to feel there is something bad happening,'' Mrs. Essaheb
said as she stood over a bowl of ground almonds and sugar. She began to cry and
walked to the sink to dry her face.

For all the tumult, the Essahebs rarely discuss their immigration problems. In a
rare moment one Saturday afternoon, the family gathered to talk about what they
would do if the three sons were deported. The Essahebs have lost touch with most
of their relatives. Kamal, Hassan and Housseine Essaheb would in many ways have
to repeat the lonely passage their parents took to the United States: they would
arrive in Morocco, a foreign country, with a suitcase and some telephone
numbers.

Kamal Essaheb shook his head at the thought.

''We feel like we've accomplished quite a bit, and we're on the brink of really
contributing,'' he said. ''My dad has worked so hard. This kid is going to work
on Wall Street,'' he said, pointing to his brother Hassan.

''I have to sell the house and go,'' Mrs. Essaheb said later. ''I can't send my
kids and stay here. For what? For them I came here.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Essaheb brothers, from left, Kamal, Housseine and Hassan,
seek graduate degrees, but may have to live in Morocco. (Photo by Ting-Li
Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Housseine Essaheb, left, and his brother Kamal at a roller-hockey rink in
Queens. The brothers play hockey on most weekends. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The
New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

15 Years on the Bottom Rung

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5773 words


In the dark before dawn, when Madison Avenue was all but deserted and its pricey
boutiques were still locked up tight, several Mexicans slipped quietly into 3
Guys, a restaurant that the Zagat guide once called ''the most expensive coffee
shop in New York.''

For the next 10 hours they would fry eggs, grill burgers, pour coffee and wash
dishes for a stream of customers from the Upper East Side of Manhattan. By 7:35
a.m., Eliot Spitzer, attorney general of New York, was holding a power breakfast
back near the polished granite counter. In the same burgundy booth a few hours
later, Michael A. Wiener, co-founder of the multibillion-dollar Infinity
Broadcasting, grabbed a bite with his wife, Zena. Just the day before, Uma
Thurman slipped in for a quiet lunch with her children, but the paparazzi found
her and she left.

More Mexicans filed in to begin their shifts throughout the morning, and by the
time John Zannikos, one of the restaurant's three Greek owners, drove in from
the North Jersey suburbs to work the lunch crowd, Madison Avenue was buzzing. So
was 3 Guys.

''You got to wait a little bit,'' Mr. Zannikos said to a pride of elegant women
who had spent the morning at the Whitney Museum of American Art, across Madison
Avenue at 75th Street. For an illiterate immigrant who came to New York years
ago with nothing but $100 in his pocket and a willingness to work etched on his
heart, could any words have been sweeter to say?

With its wealthy clientele, middle-class owners and low-income work force, 3
Guys is a template of the class divisions in America. But it is also the setting
for two starkly different tales about breaching those divides.

The familiar story is Mr. Zannikos's. For him, the restaurant -- don't dare call
it a diner -- with its $20 salads and elegant decor represents the American
promise of upward mobility, one that has been fulfilled countless times for
generations of hard-working immigrants.

But for Juan Manuel Peralta, a 34-year-old illegal immigrant who worked there
for five years until he was fired last May, and for many of the other illegal
Mexican immigrants in the back, restaurant work today is more like a dead end.
They are finding the American dream of moving up far more elusive than it was
for Mr. Zannikos. Despite his efforts to help them, they risk becoming stuck in
a permanent underclass of the poor, the unskilled and the uneducated.

That is not to suggest that the nearly five million Mexicans who, like Mr.
Peralta, are living in the United States illegally will never emerge from the
shadows. Many have, and undoubtedly many more will. But the sheer size of the
influx -- over 400,000 a year, with no end in sight -- creates a problem all its
own. It means there is an ever-growing pool of interchangeable workers, many of
them shunting from one low-paying job to another. If one moves on, another one
-- or maybe two or three -- is there to take his place.

Although Mr. Peralta arrived in New York almost 40 years after Mr. Zannikos, the
two share a remarkably similar beginning. They came at the same age to the same
section of New York City, without legal papers or more than a few words of
English. Each dreamed of a better life. But monumental changes in the economy
and in attitudes toward immigrants have made it far less likely that Mr. Peralta
and his children will experience the same upward mobility as Mr. Zannikos and
his family.

Of course, there is a chance that Mr. Peralta may yet take his place among the
Mexican-Americans who have succeeded here. He realizes that he will probably not
do as well as the few who have risen to high office or who were able to buy the
vineyards where their grandfathers once picked grapes. But he still dreams that
his children will someday join the millions who have lost their accents, gotten
good educations and firmly achieved the American dream.

Political scientists are divided over whether the 25 million people of Mexican
ancestry in the United States represent an exception to the classic immigrant
success story. Some, like John H. Mollenkopf at the City University of New York,
are convinced that Mexicans will eventually do as well as the Greeks, Italians
and other Europeans of the last century who were usually well assimilated after
two or three generations. Others, including Mexican-Americans like Rodolfo O. de
la Garza, a professor at Columbia, have done studies showing that
Mexican-Americans face so many obstacles that even the fourth generation trails
other Americans in education, home ownership and household income.

The situation is even worse for the millions more who have illegally entered the
United States since 1990. Spread out in scores of cities far beyond the
Southwest, they find jobs plentiful but advancement difficult. President Vicente
Fox of Mexico was forced to apologize this month for declaring publicly what
many Mexicans say they feel, that the illegal immigrants ''are doing the work
that not even blacks want to do in the United States.'' Resentment and race
subtly stand in their way, as does a lingering attachment to Mexico, which is so
close that many immigrants do not put down deep roots here. They say they plan
to stay only long enough to make some money and then go back home. Few ever do.

But the biggest obstacle is their illegal status. With few routes open to become
legal, they remain, like Mr. Peralta, without rights, without security and
without a clear path to a better future.

''It's worrisome,'' said Richard Alba, a sociologist at the State University of
New York, Albany, who studies the assimilation and class mobility of
contemporary immigrants, ''and I don't see much reason to believe this will
change.''

Little has changed for Mr. Peralta, a cook who has worked at menial jobs in the
United States for the last 15 years. Though he makes more than he ever dreamed
of in Mexico, his life is anything but middle class and setbacks are routine.
Still, he has not given up hope. Querer es poder, he sometimes says: Want
something badly enough and you will get it.

But desire may not be enough anymore. That is what concerns Arturo Sarukhan,
Mexico's consul general in New York. Mr. Sarukhan recently took an urgent call
from New York's police commissioner about an increase in gang activity among
young Mexican men, a sign that they were moving into the underside of American
life. Of all immigrants in New York City, officials say, Mexicans are the
poorest, least educated and least likely to speak English.

The failure or success of this generation of Mexicans in the United States will
determine the place that Mexicans will hold here in years to come, Mr. Sarukhan
said, and the outlook is not encouraging.

''They will be better off than they could ever have been in Mexico,'' he said,
''but I don't think that's going to be enough to prevent them from becoming an
underclass in New York.''

Different Results

 There is a break in the middle of the day at 3 Guys, after the lunchtime
limousines leave and before the private schools let out. That was when Mr.
Zannikos asked the Mexican cook who replaced Mr. Peralta to prepare some lunch
for him. Then Mr. Zannikos carried the chicken breast on pita to the last table
in the restaurant.

''My life story is a good story, a lot of success,'' he said, his accent still
heavy. He was just a teenager when he left the Greek island of Chios, a few
miles off the coast of Turkey. World War II had just ended, and Greece was in
ruins. ''There was only rich and poor, that's it,'' Mr. Zannikos said. ''There
was no middle class like you have here.'' He is 70 now, with short gray hair and
soft eyes that can water at a mention of the past.

Because of the war, he said, he never got past the second grade, never learned
to read or write. He signed on as a merchant seaman, and in 1953, when he was
19, his ship docked at Norfolk, Va. He went ashore one Saturday with no
intention of ever returning to Greece. He left behind everything, including his
travel documents. All he had in his pockets was $100 and the address of his
mother's cousin in the Jackson Heights-Corona section of Queens.

Almost four decades later, Mr. Peralta underwent a similar rite of passage out
of Mexico. He had finished the eighth grade in the poor southern state of
Guerrero and saw nothing in his future there but fixing flat tires. His father,
Inocencio, had once dreamed of going to the United States, but never had the
money. In 1990, he borrowed enough to give his first-born son a chance.

Mr. Peralta was 19 when he boarded a smoky bus that carried him through the
deserted hills of Guerrero and kept going until it reached the edge of Mexico.
With eight other Mexicans he did not know, he crawled through a sewer tunnel
that started in Tijuana and ended on the other side of the border, in what
Mexicans call el Norte.

He had carried no documents, no photographs and no money, except what his father
gave him to pay his shifty guide and to buy an airline ticket to New York. Deep
in a pocket was the address of an uncle in the same section of Queens where Mr.
Zannikos had gotten his start. By 1990, the area had gone from largely Greek to
mostly Latino.

Starting over in the same working-class neighborhood, Mr. Peralta and Mr.
Zannikos quickly learned that New York was full of opportunities and obstacles,
often in equal measure.

On his first day there, Mr. Zannikos, scared and feeling lost, found the
building he was looking for, but his mother's cousin had moved. He had no idea
what to do until a Greek man passed by. Walk five blocks to the Deluxe Diner,
the man said. He did.

The diner was full of Greek housepainters, including one who knew Mr. Zannikos's
father. On the spot, they offered him a job painting closets, where his mistakes
would be hidden. He painted until the weather turned cold. Another Greek hired
him as a dishwasher at his coffee shop in the Bronx.

It was not easy, but Mr. Zannikos worked his way up to short-order cook,
learning English as he went along. In 1956, immigration officials raided the
coffee shop. He was deported, but after a short while he managed to sneak back
into the country. Three years later he married a Puerto Rican from the Bronx.
The marriage lasted only a year, but it put him on the road to becoming a
citizen. Now he could buy his own restaurant, a greasy spoon in the South Bronx
that catered to a late-night clientele of prostitutes and undercover police
officers.

Since then, he has bought and sold more than a dozen New York diners, but none
have been more successful than the original 3 Guys, which opened in 1978. He and
his partners own two other restaurants with the same name farther up Madison
Avenue, but they have never replicated the high-end appeal of the original.

''When employees come in I teach them, 'Hey, this is a different
neighborhood,''' Mr. Zannikos said. What may be standard in some other diners is
not tolerated here. There are no Greek flags or tourism posters. There is no
television or twirling tower of cakes with cream pompadours. Waiters are
forbidden to chew gum. No customer is ever called ''Honey.''

''They know their place and I know my place,'' Mr. Zannikos said of his
customers. ''It's as simple as that.''

His place in society now is a far cry from his days in the Bronx. He and his
second wife, June, live in Wyckoff, a New Jersey suburb where he pampers fig
trees and dutifully looks after a bird feeder shaped like the Parthenon. They
own a condominium in Florida. His three children all went far beyond his
second-grade education, finishing high school or attending college.

They have all done well, as has Mr. Zannikos, who says he makes about $130,000 a
year. He says he is not sensitive to class distinctions, but he admits he was
bothered when some people mistook him for the caterer at fund-raising dinners
for the local Greek church he helped build.

All in all, he thinks immigrants today have a better chance of moving up the
class ladder than he did 50 years ago.

''At that time, no bank would give us any money, but today they give you credit
cards in the mail,'' he said. ''New York still gives you more opportunity that
any other place. If you want to do things, you will.''

He says he has done well, and he is content with his station in life. ''I'm in
the middle and I'm happy.''

A Divisive Issue

 Mr. Peralta cannot guess what class Mr. Zannikos belongs to. But he is certain
that it is much tougher for an immigrant to get ahead today than 50 years ago.
And he has no doubt about his own class.

''La pobreza,'' he says. ''Poverty.''

It was not what he expected when he boarded the bus to the border, but it did
not take long for him to realize that success in the United States required more
than hard work. ''A lot of it has to do with luck,'' he said during a lunch
break on a stoop around the corner from the Queens diner where he went to work
after 3 Guys.

''People come here, and in no more than a year or two they can buy their own
house and have a car,'' Mr. Peralta said. ''Me, I've been here 15 years, and if
I die tomorrow, there wouldn't even be enough money to bury me.''

In 1990, Mr. Peralta was in the vanguard of Mexican immigrants who bypassed the
traditional barrios in border states to work in far-flung cities like Denver and
New York. The 2000 census counted 186,872 Mexicans in New York, triple the 1990
figure, and there are undoubtedly many more today. The Mexican consulate, which
serves the metropolitan region, has issued more than 500,000 ID cards just since
2001.

Fifty years ago, illegal immigration was a minor problem. Now it is a divisive
national issue, pitting those who welcome cheap labor against those with
concerns about border security and the cost of providing social services. Though
newly arrived Mexicans often work in industries that rely on cheap labor, like
restaurants and construction, they rarely organize. Most are desperate to stay
out of sight.

Mr. Peralta hooked up with his uncle the morning he arrived in New York. He did
not work for weeks until the bakery where the uncle worked had an opening, a
part-time job making muffins. He took it, though he didn't know muffins from
crumb cake. When he saw that he would not make enough to repay his father, he
took a second job making night deliveries for a Manhattan diner. By the end of
his first day he was so lost he had to spend all his tip money on a cab ride
home.

He quit the diner, but working there even briefly opened his eyes to how easy it
could be to make money in New York. Diners were everywhere, and so were jobs
making deliveries, washing dishes or busing tables. In six months, Mr. Peralta
had paid back the money his father gave him. He bounced from job to job and in
1995, eager to show off his newfound success, he went back to Mexico with his
pockets full of money, and he married. He was 25 then, the same age at which Mr.
Zannikos married. But the similarities end there.

When Mr. Zannikos jumped ship, he left Greece behind for good. Though he himself
had no documents, the compatriots he encountered on his first days were here
legally, like most other Greek immigrants, and could help him. Greeks had never
come to the United States in large numbers -- the 2000 census counted only
29,805 New Yorkers born in Greece -- but they tended to settle in just a few
areas, like the Astoria section of Queens, which became cohesive communities
ready to help new arrivals.

Mr. Peralta, like many other Mexicans, is trying to make it on his own and has
never severed his emotional or financial ties to home. After five years in New
York's Latino community, he spoke little English and owned little more than the
clothes on his back. He decided to return to Huamuxtitlan (pronounced
wa-moosh-teet-LAHN), the dusty village beneath a flat-topped mountain where he
was born.

''People thought that since I was coming back from el Norte, I would be so rich
that I could spread money around,'' he said. Still, he felt privileged: his New
York wages dwarfed the $1,000 a year he might have made in Mexico.

He met a shy, pretty girl named Matilde in Huamuxtitlan, married her and
returned with her to New York, again illegally, all in a matter of weeks. Their
first child was born in 1996. Mr. Peralta soon found that supporting a family
made it harder to save money. Then, in 1999, he got the job at 3 Guys.

''Barba Yanni helped me learn how to prepare things the way customers like
them,'' Mr. Peralta said, referring to Mr. Zannikos with a Greek title of
respect that means Uncle John.

The restaurant became his school. He learned how to saute a fish so that it
looked like a work of art. The three partners lent him money and said they would
help him get immigration documents. The pay was good.

But there were tensions with the other workers. Instead of hanging their orders
on a rack, the waiters shouted them out, in Greek, Spanish and a kind of
fractured English. Sometimes Mr. Peralta did not understand, and they argued.
Soon he was known as a hothead.

Still, he worked hard, and every night he returned to his growing family.
Matilde, now 27, cleaned houses until the second child, Heidi, was born three
years ago. Now she tries to sell Mary Kay products to other mothers at Public
School 12, which their son, Antony, 8, attends.

Most weeks, Mr. Peralta could make as much as $600. Over the course of a year
that could come to over $30,000, enough to approach the lower middle class. But
the life he leads is far from that and uncertainty hovers over everything about
his life, starting with his paycheck.

To earn $600, he has to work at least 10 hours a day, six days a week, and that
does not happen every week. Sometimes he is paid overtime for the extra hours,
sometimes not. And, as he found out in May, he can be fired at any time and
bring in nothing, not even unemployment, until he lands another job. In 2004, he
made about $24,000.

Because he is here illegally, Mr. Peralta can easily be exploited. He cannot
file a complaint against his landlord for charging him $500 a month for a
9-foot-by-9-foot room in a Queens apartment that he shares with nine other
Mexicans in three families who pay the remainder of the $2,000-a-month rent. All
13 share one bathroom, and the established pecking order means the Peraltas
rarely get to use the kitchen. Eating out can be expensive.

Because they were born in New York, Mr. Peralta's children are United States
citizens, and their health care is generally covered by Medicaid. But he has to
pay out of his pocket whenever he or his wife sees a doctor. And forget about
going to the dentist.

As many other Mexicans do, he wires money home, and it costs him $7 for every
$100 he sends. When his uncle, his nephew and his sister asked him for money, he
was expected to lend it. No one has paid him back. He has middle-class
ornaments, like a cellphone and a DVD player, but no driver's license or Social
Security card.

He is the first to admit that he has vices that have held him back; nothing
criminal, but he tends to lose his temper and there are nights when he likes to
have a drink or two. His greatest weakness is instant lottery tickets, what he
calls ''los scratch,'' and he sheepishly confesses that he can squander as much
as $75 a week on them. It is a way of preserving hope, he said. Once he won
$100. He bought a blender.

Years ago, he and Matilde were so confident they would make it in America that
when their son was born they used the American spelling of his name, Anthony,
figuring it would help pave his passage into the mainstream. But even that
effort failed.

''Look at this,'' his wife said one afternoon as she sat on the floor of their
room near a picture of the Virgin of Guadalupe. Mr. Peralta sat on a small
plastic stool in the doorway, listening. His mattress was stacked against the
wall. A roll of toilet paper was stashed nearby because they dared not leave it
in the shared bathroom for someone else to use.

She took her pocketbook and pulled out a clear plastic case holding her son's
baptismal certificate, on which his name is spelled with an ''H.'' But then she
unfolded his birth certificate, where the ''H'' is missing.

''The teachers won't teach him to spell his name the right way until the
certificate is legally changed,'' she said. ''But how can we do that if we're
not legal?''

Progress, but Not Success

 An elevated subway train thundered overhead, making the afternoon light along
Roosevelt Avenue blink like a failing fluorescent bulb. Mr. Peralta's daughter
and son grabbed his fat hands as they ran some errands. He had just finished a
10-hour shift, eggs over easy and cheeseburgers since 5 a.m. It had been
especially hard to stand the monotony that day. He kept thinking about what was
going on in Mexico, where it was the feast day of Our Lady of the Rosary. And,
oh, what a feast there was -- sweets and handmade tamales, a parade, even a
bullfight. At night, fireworks, bursting loud and bright against the green folds
of the mountains. Paid for, in part, by the money he sends home.

But instead of partying, he was walking his children to the Arab supermarket on
Roosevelt Avenue to buy packages of chicken and spare ribs, and hoping to get to
use the kitchen. And though he knew better, he grabbed a package of pink and
white marshmallows for the children. He needed to buy tortillas, too, but not
there. A Korean convenience store a few blocks away sells La Maizteca tortillas,
made in New York.

The swirl of immigrants in Mr. Peralta's neighborhood is part of the fabric of
New York, just as it was in 1953, when Mr. Zannikos arrived. But most immigrants
then were Europeans, and though they spoke different languages, their Caucasian
features helped them blend into New York's middle class.

Experts remain divided over whether Mexicans can follow the same route. Samuel
P. Huntington, a Harvard professor of government, takes the extreme view that
Mexicans will not assimilate and that the separate culture they are developing
threatens the United States.

Most others believe that recent Mexican immigrants will eventually take their
place in society, and perhaps someday muster political clout commensurate with
their numbers, though significant impediments are slowing their progress.
Francisco Rivera-Batiz, a Columbia University economics professor, says that
prejudice remains a problem, that factory jobs have all but disappeared, and
that there is a growing gap between the educational demands of the economy and
the limited schooling that the newest Mexicans have when they arrive.

But the biggest obstacle by far, and the one that separates newly arrived
Mexicans from Greeks, Italians and most other immigrants -- including earlier
generations of Mexicans -- is their illegal status. Professor Rivera-Batiz
studied what happened to illegal Mexican immigrants who became legal after the
last national amnesty in 1986. Within a few years, their incomes rose 20 percent
and their English improved greatly.

''Legalization,'' he said, ''helped them tremendously.''

Although the Bush administration is again talking about legalizing some Mexicans
with a guest worker program, there is opposition to another amnesty, and the
number of Mexicans illegally living in the United States continues to soar.
Desperate to get their papers any way they can, many turn to shady storefront
legal offices. Like Mr. Peralta, they sign on to illusory schemes that cost
hundreds of dollars but almost never produce the promised green cards.

Until the 1980's, Mexican immigration was largely seasonal and mostly limited to
agricultural workers. But then economic chaos in Mexico sent a flood of
immigrants northward, many of them poorly educated farmers from the impoverished
countryside. Tighter security on the border made it harder for Mexicans to move
back and forth in the traditional way, so they tended to stay here, searching
for low-paying unskilled jobs and concentrating in barrios where Spanish,
constantly replenished, never loses its immediacy.

''Cuidado!'' Mr. Peralta shouted when Antony carelessly stepped into Roosevelt
Avenue without looking. Although the boy is taught in English at school, he
rarely uses anything but Spanish at home.

Even now, after 15 years in New York, Mr. Peralta speaks little English. He
tried English classes once, but could not get his mind to accept the new sounds.
So he dropped it, and has stuck with only Spanish, which he concedes is ''the
language of busboys'' in New York. But as long as he stays in his neighborhood,
it is all he needs.

It was late afternoon by the time Mr. Peralta and his children headed home. The
run-down house, the overheated room, the stacked mattress and the hoarded toilet
paper -- all remind him how far he would have to go to achieve a success like
Mr. Zannikos's.

Still, he says, he has done far better than he could ever have done in Mexico.
He realizes that the money he sends to his family there is not enough to satisfy
his father, who built stairs for a second floor of his house made of concrete
blocks in Huamuxtitlan, even though there is no second floor. He believes Manuel
has made it big in New York and he is waiting for money from America to complete
the upstairs.

Manuel has never told him the truth about his life up north. He said his
father's images of America came from another era. The older man does not know
how tough it is to be a Mexican immigrant in the United States now, tougher than
any young man who ever left Huamuxtitlan would admit. Everything built up over
15 years here can come apart as easily as an adobe house in an earthquake. And
then it is time to start over, again.

A Conflict Erupts

 It was the end of another busy lunch at 3 Guys in late spring 2003. Mr. Peralta
made himself a turkey sandwich and took a seat at a rear table. The Mexican
countermen, dishwashers and busboys also started their breaks, while the Greek
waiters took care of the last few diners.

It is not clear how the argument started. But a cross word passed between a
Greek waiter and a Mexican busboy. Voices were raised. The waiter swung at the
busboy, catching him behind the ear. Mr. Peralta froze. So did the other
Mexicans.

Even from the front of the restaurant, where he was watching the cash register,
Mr. Zannikos realized something was wrong and rushed back to break it up. ''I
stood between them, held one and pushed the other away,'' he said. ''I told
them: 'You don't do that here. Never do that here.'''

Mr. Zannikos said he did not care who started it. He ordered both the busboy and
the waiter, a partner's nephew, to get out.

But several Mexicans, including Mr. Peralta, said that they saw Mr. Zannikos
grab the busboy by the head and that they believed he would have hit him if
another Mexican had not stepped between them. That infuriated them because they
felt he had sided with the Greek without knowing who was at fault.

Mr. Zannikos said that was not true, but in the end it did not matter. The
easygoing atmosphere at the restaurant changed. ''Everybody was a little cool,''
Mr. Zannikos recalled.

What he did not know then was that the Mexicans had reached out to the
Restaurant Opportunities Center, a workers' rights group. Eventually six of
them, including Mr. Peralta, cooperated with the group. He did so reluctantly,
he said, because he was afraid that if the owners found out, they would no
longer help him get his immigration papers. The labor group promised that the
owners would never know.

The owners saw it as an effort to shake them down, but for the Mexicans it
became a class struggle pitting powerless workers against hard-hearted owners.

Their grievances went beyond the scuffle. They complained that with just one
exception, only Greeks became waiters at 3 Guys. They challenged the sole
Mexican waiter, Salomon Paniagua, a former Mexican army officer who, everyone
agreed, looked Greek, to stand with them.

But on the day the labor group picketed the restaurant, Mr. Paniagua refused to
put down his order pad. A handful of demonstrators carried signs on Madison
Avenue for a short while before Mr. Zannikos and his partners reluctantly agreed
to settle.

Mr. Zannikos said he felt betrayed. ''When I see these guys, I see myself when I
started, and I always try to help them,'' he said. ''I didn't do anything
wrong.''

The busboy and the Mexican who intervened were paid several thousand dollars and
the owners promised to promote a current Mexican employee to waiter within a
month. But that did not end the turmoil.

Fearing that the other Mexicans might try to get back at him, Mr. Paniagua
decided to strike out on his own. After asking Mr. Zannikos for advice, he
bought a one-third share of a Greek diner in Jamaica, Queens. He said he put it
in his father's name because the older man had become a legal resident after the
1986 amnesty.

After Mr. Paniagua left, 3 Guys went without a single Mexican waiter for 10
months, despite the terms of the settlement. In March, an eager Mexican busboy
with a heavy accent who had worked there for four years got a chance to wear a
waiter's tie.

Mr. Peralta ended up having to leave 3 Guys around the same time as Mr.
Paniagua. Mr. Zannikos's partners suspected he had sided with the labor group,
he said, and started to criticize his work unfairly. Then they cut back his
schedule to five days a week. After he hurt his ankle playing soccer, they told
him to go home until he was better. When Mr. Peralta came back to work about two
weeks later, he was fired.

Mr. Zannikos confirms part of the account but says the firing had nothing to do
with the scuffle or the ensuing dispute. ''If he was good, believe me, he
wouldn't get fired,'' he said of Mr. Peralta.

Mr. Peralta shrugged when told what Mr. Zannikos said. ''I know my own work and
I know what I can do,'' he said. ''There are a lot of restaurants in New York,
and a lot of workers.''

When 3 Guys fired Mr. Peralta, another Mexican replaced him, just as Mr. Peralta
replaced a Mexican at the Greek diner in Queens where he went to work next.

This time, though, there was no Madison Avenue address, no elaborate menu of New
Zealand mussels or designer mushrooms. In the Queens diner a bowl of soup with a
buttered roll cost $2, all day. If he fried burgers and scraped fat off the big
grill for 10 hours a day, six days a week, he might earn about as much as he did
on Madison Avenue, at least for a week.

His schedule kept changing. Sometimes he worked the lunch and dinner shift, and
by the end of the night he was worn out, especially since he often found himself
arguing with the Greek owner. But he did not look forward to going home. So
after the night manager lowered the security gate, Mr. Peralta would wander the
streets.

One of those nights he stopped at a phone center off Roosevelt Avenue to call
his mother. ''Everything's O.K.,'' he told her. He asked how she had spent the
last $100 he sent, and whether she needed anything else. There is always need in
Huamuxtitlan.

Still restless, he went to the Scorpion, a shot-and-beer joint open till 4 a.m.
He sat at the long bar nursing vodkas with cranberry juice, glancing at the
soccer match on TV and the busty Brazilian bartender who spoke only a little
Spanish. When it was nearly 11 p.m., he called it a night.

Back home, he quietly opened the door to his room. The lights were off, the
television murmuring. His family was asleep in the bunk bed that the store had
now threatened to repossess. Antony was curled up on the top, Matilde and Heidi
cuddled in the bottom. Mr. Peralta moved the plastic stool out of the way and
dropped his mattress to the floor.

The children did not stir. His wife's eyes fluttered, but she said nothing. Mr.
Peralta looked over his family, his home.

''This,'' he said, ''is my life in New York.''

Not the life he imagined, but his life. In early March, just after Heidi's third
birthday, he quit his job at the Queens diner after yet another heated argument
with the owner. In his mind, preserving his dignity is one of the few liberties
he has left.

''I'll get another job,'' he said while baby-sitting Heidi at home a few days
later. The rent is already paid till the end of the month and he has friends, he
said. People know him. To him, jobs are interchangeable -- just as he is to the
jobs. If he cannot find work as a grillman, he will bus tables. Or wash dishes.
If not at one diner, then at another.

''It's all the same,'' he said.

It took about three weeks, but Mr. Peralta did find a new job as a grillman at
another Greek diner in a different part of New York. His salary is roughly the
same, the menu is roughly the same (one new item, Greek burritos, was a
natural), and he sees his chance for a better future as being roughly the same
as it has been since he got to America.

A Long Day Closes

 It was now dark again outside 3 Guys. About 9 p.m. Mr. Zannikos asked his
Mexican cook for a small salmon steak, a little rare. It had been another busy
10-hour day for him, but a good one. Receipts from the morning alone exceeded
what he needed to take in every day just to cover the $23,000 a month rent.

He finished the salmon quickly, left final instructions with the lone Greek
waiter still on duty and said good night to everyone else. He put on his light
tan corduroy jacket and the baseball cap he picked up in Florida.

''Night,'' he said to the lone table of diners.

Outside, as Mr. Zannikos walked slowly down Madison Avenue, a self-made man
comfortable with his own hard-won success, the bulkhead doors in front of 3 Guys
clanked open. Faint voices speaking Spanish came from below. A young Mexican who
started his shift 10 hours earlier climbed out with a bag of garbage and heaved
it onto the sidewalk. New Zealand mussel shells. Uneaten bits of portobello
mushrooms. The fine grounds of decaf cappuccino.

One black plastic bag after another came out until Madison Avenue in front of 3
Guys was piled high with trash.

''Hurry up!'' the young man shouted to the other Mexicans. ''I want to go home,
too.''

ABOUT THE SERIES

This article is the sixth part of a series examining the role of social class in
America today. A team of reporters spent more than a year exploring ways that
class -- defined as a combination of income, education, wealth and occupation --
influences destiny in a society that likes to think of itself as a land of
unbounded opportunity.

Sunday: The New Markers of Status

Juan Manuel Peralta and John Zannikos describe their different experiences as
immigrants in America. Also, interactive graphics, a forum for reader responses
and the series so far.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: CLASS MATTERS: Sixth article of a series.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Manuel Peralta and his daughter, Heidi. His two children,
born here, are citizens
he and his wife, Matilde, are here illegally. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New
York Times)(pg. A1)
TRYING TO LIVE THE DREAM -- Mexican immigrants can be held back by resentments,
racial attitudes and lingering ties to the homeland that many groups in the past
never experienced. (pg. A20)
THE GREEK IMMIGRANT -- Mr. Zannikos has bought and sold more than a dozen
diners, and with his partners now owns three. He and his wife live in a New
Jersey suburb, where he tends to his fruit trees.
 THE MEXICAN IMMIGRANT -- Mr. Peralta's life here has been a series of kitchen
jobs. Above, he and his son, Antony, in their room in a Queens apartment that
the family shares with nine other Mexicans. (pg. A21)(Photographs by ANGEL
FRANCO/The New York Times)(pg. A20, A21)Chart: ''Comparing Poorly''Mexicans are
the third largest group of immigrants, after Dominicans and Chinese, who have
arrived in New York City since 1990. Here is how the groups compare.Percentage
without a high school degreeDominicans: 54%Chinese: 49Mexicans: 65Percentage
with poor or no EnglishDominicans: 51%Chinese: 58Mexicans: 61Percentage of
households overcrowded (more than one person per room)Dominicans: 46%Chinese:
45Mexicans: 70(Source by Queens College Sociology Department from 2000 census
data)(pg. A20)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Midwest: Ohio: Prayer Brings Traffic Tickets

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 86 words


Somali immigrants who work as cabdrivers at the Cleveland airport say the police
are ticketing them when they step out of their cabs for traditional Islamic
prayer. Muslims pray five times daily, facing Mecca, the holy city in Saudi
Arabia. The drivers say this is why they must leave their cars. A sign warns
taxi drivers not to leave their vehicles within 300 feet of the terminal or
their cars will be towed. The police are not towing, but they are issuing
tickets that carry a $150 fine, plus $69 in court costs.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Unwanted-Job Myth

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 154 words



To the Editor:

The claim that there are ''jobs no American will take'' has made its way into
the heart of the debate over immigration reform (''Major Immigration Surgery,''
editorial, May 20). Yet the circular reasoning behind this claim is
fundamentally flawed.

Sure, if employers in a given sector face an endless supply of low-wage labor,
the quality of jobs in that sector will fall to levels that only those desperate
for work will accept. But it doesn't follow that those with higher standards, be
they immigrants or natives, would refuse these jobs if, in a tighter labor
market, their wages were bid up.

The claim that Americans won't take certain jobs is too often made by those
whose profits depend on hammering down labor costs. The outcome of our
immigration debate will improve if we face its inherent illogic.

Jared Bernstein
Washington, May 20, 2005

The writer is a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 28, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Los Angeles, the Inevitable Is Reflected in a New Hispanic Mayor

BYLINE: By CAROLYN CURIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


There is almost an air of bemusement among Latinos in Los Angeles over the
fascination with the election of one of their own as mayor. They like the
attention, and that also goes for the new mayor, Antonio Villaraigosa. But
stories here about rising Latino power are nearly anticlimactic. Hispanics hold
the offices of lieutenant governor, county sheriff, city attorney and the
powerful head of the county board of supervisors. A Latino is president of the
City Council and another is speaker of the State Assembly. Latinos hold more
than one-fifth of the seats in the State Legislature.

The Los Angeles mayor's office was in many ways a domino waiting to fall. And
the man who probably most helped the cascade is not Hispanic at all -- former
Gov. Pete Wilson.

It was Mr. Wilson's success in the mid-1990's with the anti-immigrant
Proposition 187 and the legal battles it provoked that propelled efforts by
labor unions and community organizations to encourage new citizenship and create
voters. California, which has the distinction of being the nation's first
minority-white state, is home to nearly one in three Hispanics in the United
States. Nearly half of Los Angeles is now Hispanic. The state has added nearly
one million naturalized citizens from Latin countries, primarily from Mexico,
according to figures from the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, which researches
Hispanic issues.

It hardly matters that in the Los Angeles mayoral campaign there was nary a
mention of illegal immigration or the recent suggestion from Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger about controlling the border. New citizens, as it turns out,
quickly find that they have other worries, including the state of the schools,
where their children and other Latinos fare especially poorly. Mr. Villaraigosa
took the issue and ran, promising reforms and an end to school violence, winning
about 80 percent of the Hispanic vote.

The mayor-elect also wants to redevelop downtown and expand the city's limited
public transportation, which is used largely by blacks and Latinos who don't
often own cars or have the money for gas.

New Yorkers may draw some political parallels as their own mayoral election in
November draws near. There are seemingly overlapping issues and constituencies
and maybe even kinds of candidates. But New York is not Los Angeles, and it has
not met its Pete Wilson or its Antonio Villaraigosa.

Even Mr. Villaraigosa's detractors admire his gift of gab, which he employed
during the campaign to talk compellingly of his hardscrabble beginnings. The
words ''charismatic'' and ''passionate'' were regularly used as shorthand to
contrast him with his losing opponent, the merely life-size incumbent, James
Hahn, who beat Mr. Villaraigosa in 2001.

And while Mr. Villaraigosa is Latino, his heritage is more mainstream than
novelty here. The fact that he did not stress his background as a candidate
helped his nearly universal appeal. It also did not hurt that blacks were
disappointed with Mr. Hahn, who won on the strength of their support last time,
but raised hackles when he dismissed the African-American police chief, Bernard
Parks. An already strong Jewish base was fortified by Mr. Villaraigosa's talk of
a Jewish mentor who helped him continue his education.

''I will be the mayor for all of us,'' he promises, and he says that includes
forming the city's most diverse administration. In urban politics, where
multicultural strategies must be a part of any winning campaign, his victory has
drawn attention, even envy.

On a recent morning, the mayor-elect noted that one of his early calls of
congratulations came from New York's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, who has been
ardently courting Hispanic voters as he seeks re-election.

As for Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, who is challenging
Mr. Bloomberg: ''We've been playing telephone tag.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A One-Woman Welcome Wagon in Le Petit Senegal

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Harlem Journal; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 900 words


Glenda Johnson is building bridges in the bustling streets near her book-filled
apartment in central Harlem. She lives around the corner from West 116th Street,
where the sweet-smelling incense, the strong aroma of grilled fish and the
cacophony of French and Wolof and a host of other African languages remind her
of the summer she spent in Dakar in 1995, working on a master's thesis on
Senegalese literature. On the heavily trafficked sidewalks of 116th Street, also
known as Le Petit Senegal, African immigrants in flowing, richly colored boubous
sell wares like socks, luggage, phone cards and fabric, while women in shops
work their fingers like magicians as they braid customers' hair.

Ms. Johnson, 38, coordinates African Voices, a series of communications
workshops planned to empower the exploding number of African residents whose
presence has brought not only a new flavor to the historic capital of black
America, but cultural tensions and conflicts as well.

The number of African-born immigrants in central Harlem increased by about 400
percent in a decade's time, according to an analysis by Queens College of census
data from 2000. And of the 3,920 African-born immigrants in central Harlem, 920
-- nearly 25 percent -- are from Senegal, according to the analysis.

''Speaking with them and hearing where they are from, they tell me, 'We're here
but sometimes we don't feel here; we're in it but we're not really of it,'''
said Ms. Johnson, the former editor in chief of The Citizen, a monthly
neighborhood newspaper that recently went on hiatus because of a lack of money.
''The African voice is just not really there.''

Since October, Ms. Johnson has run weekly workshops at Grandma's Place, a
literacy center in a carriage house at 84 West 120th Street. Ms. Johnson, a
graduate of Spelman College who earned a master's degree at Howard University,
received a $50,000 fellowship from the Open Society Institute, a nonprofit
organization financed by the billionaire investor George Soros. She has brought
in professional journalists, authors, and literacy instructors to help teach
African immigrants writing and computer literacy. The next weekly workshops
start next Monday and will focus on improving oral and written English language
skills. The hope is that the immigrants will learn how to do things like write
letters to their children's teachers, prepare for job interviews and feel
comfortable enough to speak at community meetings.

An offshoot of the workshops is an eight-page publication called African
Neighbors, in which immigrants write about issues that have a special resonance
for them. The first copy was a newspaper supplement in The Citizen, and has been
distributed by volunteers in cafes, laundries and other public places. Ms.
Johnson is working on turning African Neighbors into a free monthly publication.
She has also created a Web site -- www.harlemneighbors.com -- as a community
forum.

''For the people who are having their words read by the larger Harlem audience,
it is a very empowering thing,'' she said. ''I even had one guy, a Gambian,
write an article, and he said people look at him differently, because it's like:
'You're a writer, a thinker. You have something to say.' People listen, and the
perception has changed.''

Late one afternoon, Lamine Dienne, a workshop participant who wrote about
domestic violence for African Neighbors, dropped by Ms. Johnson's spacious
apartment for a visit. Mr. Dienne, who is 45 and a sales clerk for Verizon
Wireless, talked about his sense of isolation when he moved to New York from
Dakar eight years ago. He says he felt as if he was in an alien world in which
people wore scowls all the time, do-rags on their heads and baggy jeans, and
shouted obscenities.

''While I learned English as a second language, I had to go through two years
where I didn't understand what people were saying, and frankly, I was scared,''
Mr. Dienne says in mindful English, inflected with French. ''The first day I
came here, I thought I was surrounded by thugs from the way people dressed.''

Ms. Johnson and Mr. Dienne pealed into laughter. They understand each other. Ms.
Johnson studied French at the Sorbonne as a college exchange student in 1993.
The daughter of a Baptist minister and a nurse from Arkansas, Ms. Johnson is the
youngest of nine children and the first in her family to graduate from a
four-year college.

She admits she is a bit of a cheerleader when it comes to the African immigrants
of Le Petit Senegal. She sees herself as a kind of Ellis Island.

''I would like to say we are producing a welcome center where you can not only
find out what is happening in the neighborhood but to get to know your
neighbors,'' she said. ''There's got to be some effort to bring the more
marginalized group to the center.''

And while the sights and smells of Le Petit Senegal may be familiar to her, she
knows that they are foreign to many American-born blacks in Harlem. She knows
that vendors have clashed over turf on Harlem sidewalks, and she has heard the
grumbling from African-American neighbors about Africans taking over the
neighborhood.

''I think there is a lot of fear in the community at large, and it's a fear of
being displaced,'' she said. ''I've heard a lot of ignorance, but again, where
does that come from? Just because you live in the same community doesn't mean
you communicate with each other.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenda Johnson listens to Lamine Dienne, a member of her Harlem
workshops for immigrants. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refugees in Limbo: Ordered Out Of U.S., but With Nowhere to Go

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words

DATELINE: STILLWATER, Minn., May 31


Back in 1999, Keyse G. Jama, a Somali refugee, made what he calls his big
mistake: engaging in a drunken knife fight that led to a one-year jail sentence.
Nearly six years later, he is still behind bars.

Ordered deported in May 2001 because of his crime, Mr. Jama fought all the way
to the Supreme Court, which ruled in January that he could indeed be returned to
the violent and chaotic land of his birth despite its lack of a functioning
government. So the immigration service chartered a plane and paid a private
security company to repatriate him in April. But when he arrived at a Somali
airstrip, local officials rejected his papers and turned him away.

Now, after a pricey journey of 18,000 miles, Mr. Jama, 26, is back in this
Minneapolis suburb, at the county jail where he began, a man without a country,
longing to go home -- whether to relatives in Minnesota or to strangers in
Somalia.

''It doesn't matter where I go,'' he said in a jailhouse interview punctuated by
sarcasm and a few sobs. ''I don't have land. I don't have nothing. I just want
to get out of jail. You could let me out in Iraq right now. I want to be free.''

Mr. Jama's struggle against the system, while extraordinary, reflects one of the
stickiest political and moral quandaries facing the immigration service: what to
do with people who have no legal right to stay, yet no practical route out.
Though he is among only a handful of Somalis who are jailed while awaiting
expulsion, about 4,000 of his countrymen also face imminent deportation -- most
because of failure of their asylum applications -- if the government can get
them back home.

And the issue is hardly limited to Somalis. The Catholic Legal Immigration
Network, using data from the Department of Homeland Security, counted 1,225
immigrants from more than 100 countries in long-term detention, like Mr. Jama,
as of March. Thousands more ordered deported live under parolelike supervision
and could be expelled at any time.

''We call them lifers,'' said David Leopold, a Cleveland lawyer who is on the
board of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ''It's a serious problem,
because there's nowhere to send them, and if there's nowhere to send them, they
go into this strange limbo.''

While some are from war zones like Somalia or Sudan, where there are no
authorities to issue passports, most are from nations like Cuba, Iran, Libya and
North Korea that lack full diplomatic relations with the United States. Others
are citizens of Vietnam, Laos or China whose return has been rejected for
unknown reasons. There are problems that are most particular -- a stateless
European born in a displaced-persons camp, an Ethiopian from territory now
belonging to Eritrea -- and there are Palestinians without a homeland.

''It can be very challenging removing people to these countries,'' said Manny
Van Pelt, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
''The American public thinks it's just putting a person on a plane and letting
him go.''

Laura Lichter, a lawyer in Denver who represents Somalis, Cambodians and others
in similar straits, said the government's failure to remove Mr. Jama only
bolstered the argument that he and others like him should not be sent home until
the situation is more stable.

''This is kind of like they're sending you C.O.D. someplace: someone needs to
sign off on you on the other side,'' Ms. Lichter said. ''It's one thing for the
government to say, 'Look, you don't belong here, you've been a rude guest, go
home.' But the point is, you don't just throw people out on the street. And I
don't think anybody's really come up with a solution for it.''

Outraged at the botching of Mr. Jama's removal, a federal judge in Minneapolis,
John R. Tunheim, ordered last month that he be released by May 23. Judge Tunheim
urged the government to ''slow down its rush to act, and take time to carefully
and thoroughly plan a lawful and safe deportation for all Somali nationals
subject to deportation.''

But an appeals court halted Mr. Jama's release after the government argued in
court papers that he was a flight risk, ''as he has nothing to lose,'' and said
the authorities were ''on the brink'' of removing him.

Mr. Jama's lawyers question how a second deportation effort would differ from
the first, and argue that holding him this long, or sending him to Somalia
without ensuring his security, both amount to trampling on his human rights.
Their client, meanwhile, struggles to sleep in his cell, unsure whether dawn
will bring the first day of the rest of his life, or another 24 hours locked up
at a taxpayer cost of $81.11.

''This game, when is it going to be over?'' he said. ''Looked like it was over,
but no.''

Born in Mogadishu, Mr. Jama spent several years in refugee camps in Kenya before
coming to the United States, legally, in 1996, part of a wave that has swelled
this country's Somali population to 90,000, nearly half living here in
Minnesota.

His problems began immediately, he says, in a beer bottle. He grew estranged
from his strict Muslim family. He quit school, where he did not understand
English instruction anyway. He got, and lost, an airport job stocking planes.
And he was arrested several times for theft or disorderly conduct.

In the early hours of June 15, 1999, a quarrel with a roommate turned violent
outside a bar in Waseca, Minn., about 75 miles south of the Twin Cities, and Mr.
Jama stabbed three people, according to police reports. He pleaded guilty to one
count of assault and was released from jail, but quickly violated his parole and
was back in custody on Oct. 21. He has been there ever since.

''I should not be here at all,'' he said, now nearly fluent in English. ''I come
to this country refugee. I should have my citizenship today. The mistake I made
is alcohol.''

The conviction brought deportation proceedings, but Mr. Jama resisted, filing a
legal challenge on his own before getting help from Minnesota Advocates for
Human Rights and from Briggs & Morgan, a law firm that has donated more than
5,000 hours to his case. Then, five months ago, the Supreme Court ruled, 5 to 4,
that deportation law did not require prior consent of the receiving country.

Thus began the second battle: to get Mr. Jama home.

There was a struggle over where in Somalia to send him, with the immigration
service eventually accepting his choice: Puntland, a region in the northeast
controlled by his clan, Darood.

There was the question of a passport. Mr. Jama never had one, and Somalia has no
central government to issue one. Daallo Airlines, the only commercial option,
requires one, so the lawyers argued over whether they could (or should) obtain
one from a quasi-governmental group, eventually opting against doing so.

At 9 a.m. on April 20, immigration officers came to the jail here ''and told me
to collect my belongings,'' Mr. Jama said in a sworn statement.

Interviews and other court records show that he was flown, ankles or wrists
cuffed, in a private jet from Minneapolis to Nairobi, with fuel stops in
Reykjavik and Rome. American officials do not travel to Somalia -- or negotiate
with the local Puntland authorities -- so they handed him over in Nairobi to RMI
Security, a Kenyan concern that, under United States government contract, was
supposed to arrange his acceptance.

He and his guards flew as planned to an airstrip in Puntland, but soon reboarded
the plane with a handwritten document from an unidentified official that said,
''Not having needed lawful documents we have rejected to except'' him. It was
signed ''Thanks.''

Now the legal tug of war is over separate Supreme Court precedent that forbids
detention beyond six months unless deportation is imminent or there is a
specific danger in release. The immigration service, in asking the appeals court
to block Mr. Jama's release, argued that the start of the six-month period
should be Jan. 12, the date of the Supreme Court's decision on his suit.

''This case involves an alien who has blocked his removal at every turn,'' the
government lawyers wrote, attributing the length of Mr. Jama's detention to his
original challenge to deportation, his choice of destination and his refusal to
pursue a passport.

In court documents, the government has said that it now plans to expel Mr. Jama
by June 8. Tim Counts, a spokesman for the immigration service's office in
Bloomington, Minn., said in an interview that ''it's very clear that we have the
authority to hold him,'' but refused to discuss the next deportation effort.
''We simply don't talk about the details of any removal -- the hows, the whens,
any of that,'' he said.

So Mr. Jama sits in jail, where he has a certificate for winning a basketball
shooting championship and another for completing chemical dependency treatment.
He used to play dominoes and card games but has recently spent more time
reading, about Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.

''When my case went to the Supreme Court, I started reading a lot of history
books,'' he said. ''About how people suffered. It's not just me.''

Mr. Jama said he had been praying five times a day -- not for his release, but
for God's forgiveness. The local Somali community has raised money to help him
start over.

If he is released here, Mr. Jama said, he has part-time jobs lined up at a
Somali restaurant and a convenience store, and a place to stay with an aunt in a
suburb, away from his old drinking buddies. If he ends up in Somalia, he has
hopes of using his English to work with the United Nations -- or, he said, to
help resettle the 4,000 Somalis facing deportation who may be coming in the
pipeline behind him.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keyse G. Jama, a Somali, was turned away by his homeland. (Photo
by Star Tribune, via Associated Press)Chart/Map: ''Without a Country''More than
1,200 immigrants from more than 100 countries are being held in long-term
detention in the United States. But for a variety of reasons, they cannot be
easily repatriated, lacking proper documentation or coming from countries that
lack full diplomatic relations with the United States. Here are the home
countries of the largest numbers of detainees as of March.CUBA: 279HAITI:
78JAMAICA: 61TRINIDAD: 20DOM. REP.: 26COLOMBIA: 22GUATEMALA: 17EL SALVADOR:
34MEXICO: 45CAPE VERDE: 11IVORY COAST: 10NIGERIA: 53LIBERIA: 18GUYANA:
18ALGERIA: 11POLAND: 14RUSSIA: 10JORDAN: 11PAKISTAN: 12CHINA: 82PHILIPPINES:
28SOMALIA: 10VIETNAM: 21INDIA: 40SRI LANKA: 12(Source by Catholic Legal
Immigration Network)(pg. A11)Map of world highlighting countries listed above.
(pg. A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Levy's Record On Minority Issues

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 252 words



To the Editor:

Re ''A Chance to Reach Out'' (editorial, April 24):

I have been vilified in these pages for working with the federal government to
enforce its own laws with respect to illegal immigrants who commit felonies.
Whether you agree or not, however, should not be the basis for judging my record
with respect to minority issues.

No previous administration has been more proactive on issues of concern to
minorities. I am leading the fight to end the over-assessment of property taxes
in minority communities, and racial steering in our housing policies. I
announced the creation of a Minority Health Bureau under the auspices of my
appointee, the county's first African-American health commissioner.

I appointed a Hispanic deputy commissioner of social services, as well as three
division heads, and I elevated two Hispanic police officers to inspector
positions, a first in Suffolk. I am the first executive to provide Spanish
interpreters at polling places and expanded prenatal units to reduce minority
infant mortality rates. One-third of my executive assistants were minority, as
was my first appointment to the bench. I created a program to redevelop
downtowns in diverse communities, and I am certifying minority-owned businesses
through a procurement directory.

Hispanics care about more than immigration matters. They care about safe
neighborhoods, affordable homes and quality-of-life issues -- all of which my
administration is addressing with vigor.

Steve Levy
Suffolk County Executive
Hauppauge

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Vatican's Doorstep, a Contest for Immigrant Souls

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1392 words

DATELINE: ROME


Carlos Mejias is a Roman Catholic missionary in an unlikely setting  in this
city of churches, a few miles from the Vatican's solemn majesty. He and other
lay missionaries walk through bustling piazzas, noisy nightclubs and cramped
apartments on the city's outskirts looking for Latin American immigrants who are
sometimes as far from their faith as they are from their homelands.

On a Saturday afternoon, Mr. Mejias walked with two other missionaries down a
sloping street that led to a run-down apartment complex ringed by luxury homes
near the Piazza Azzarita. Walking past men who sipped beer and children who
darted about the dingy terraces, they knocked on doors in hopes of persuading
others to join them at a religious center they were about to open nearby.

Nelly Cando welcomed them into her brother's barely furnished apartment as she
and a cousin sliced fruit for a modest party on their day off from working as
domestics. They held hands in a small circle and prayed, for work, life and
relatives in Ecuador.

''We need to be closer, to know each other and be neighbors,'' she said. ''We
all live here but don't know each other. We need unity.''

If the Vatican is ever to re-evangelize Europe, it could start with the waves of
immigrants living at its doorstep, many of whom are already baptized and who
have a cultural kinship with the church. Rome's 50,000 Latin American immigrants
are often poor and isolated, far from their homelands and from their memories of
Catholicism as the center of spiritual and local life.

In these very ways, the Latin Americans in Rome are more and more like the half
billion or so Catholics back in the Western Hemisphere. Both in Europe and Latin
America, the church is trying to come up with a way to appeal to these nominal
Catholics, and to keep them from the evangelical churches that are competing
intensely to convert them.

Many in Latin America are waiting to see whether Pope Benedict XVI, who had a
stern image as the church's chief enforcer of doctrine, will assume the mantle
of pastor that his predecessor donned.

''What people are looking for in Latin America is for the church to have a human
face,'' said the Rev. Mark Francis, superior general of the Viatorian religious
order. ''It's that Latino idea of being in communion with someone you can
identify with. It should not be a big surprise that people are looking for
personal outreach, beginning with the pope, but especially with local priests.''

Many Catholics in Latin America cite poverty as the foremost problem facing the
church. In countries where free market policies and globalization have yet to
lift the poorest out of despair, people are looking for a defender.

Dean Brackley, a professor of theology and ethics at the Jesuit University in
San Salvador, said he hoped Pope Benedict would continue his predecessor's
strong defense of the poor in Latin America. Though John Paul reined in
liberation theology across much of Latin America and Benedict -- as Cardinal
Joseph Ratzinger -- denounced it as essentially Marxist, John Paul did agree
with many of the social and economic justice beliefs from that movement.

''The great struggle in the church is whether the victims of poverty -- which is
the majority of the human race -- are at the center of our picture of the world
and our ministry,'' Father Brackley said. ''That is our great concern in Latin
America. Are they central or are we only talking about saving souls in
general?''

The region's lingering poverty sets many off on journeys that take them from
country villages to urban centers and beyond. That unchecked growth of urban
ghettos in Latin capitals leads to concentrations of desperately poor people who
have hardly any connection to one another.

That social dislocation, in turn, has helped Evangelical groups to grow rapidly,
as they eagerly welcome newcomers who have lived in silent alienation.

A similar phenomenon is happening in Rome, with Evangelicals seeking out Latin
American immigrants who feel cut off from their faith. In some cases, people
feel unwelcome in Catholic churches because they are divorced or have had
children out of wedlock. In other cases, they are longing for more than a Mass
celebrated hastily by a priest from Spain who returns to the sacristy
immediately after the final benediction.

The Rev. Luis Ernesto Ayala Benitez, a Salvadoran priest who is studying at the
Gregorian University, said the church needed to learn how to build true
community beyond the hours of Mass, whether here or back home.

''One reason why people go to the Protestant churches is they feel a warmer
welcome there,'' he said. ''It's not that people are looking for God, but
looking for each other. They leave service feeling better, not necessarily
because of the doctrine.''

The lingering question is whether Pope Benedict, an intellectual who tends to
doctrinal orthodoxy, will encourage expressions of faith and culture that would
appeal to Latin Americans.

''I believe sometimes our discourse in church is too intellectual and
rational,'' said the Rev. Orlando Torres, a Jesuit from Puerto Rico who is in
charge of religious education and spiritual development for the order. ''We need
to recover a vision of God that has not just reason, but feeling.''

Catholics are trying hard to serve the immigrants here, and provide a warm and
helpful atmosphere. But the demands of surviving in Rome makes every outreach
difficult.

The biggest movement to build a community of worshipers is led by the Rev.
Antonio Guidolin, a member of the Scalabrinian missionary order who founded a
Rome mission in 2002. The group runs 18 centers for Latin American immigrants,
helping them with work, clothing, food and spiritual outreach.

Some 100 lay volunteers go out each week seeking immigrants who have fallen away
from their faith. A smaller group of priests -- many from the same nations as
the immigrants -- celebrates Mass for their countrymen.

''It is important for them to see a Salvadoran priest,'' said Father Ayala
Benitez. ''I knew the reality of why they migrate here. It is easier to be in
solidarity with them.''

Yet the demands of work and the stress of being in a foreign culture take a toll
on many immigrants, and often keep them from church. At a recent meeting of the
priests involved in the Rome mission, there were laments that immigrants were
sometimes more interested in having the church get them a job than in saving
their souls. And often, many of them lived far from the Rome parish where the
missionary group offered a variety of social services.

Father Antonio, normally an impish ball of energy, grew quiet when he considered
all the difficulties in building a community even here, so close to the seat of
Catholicism.

''To be a missionary today, we have to travel within the church and the world,''
he said during a meeting of priests. ''If we are not missionaries, what kind of
Christians are we? What message are we taking to the world?''

During a recent visit to immigrants who lived on the outskirts of the city,
Jorge Guerra, a seminarian from Mexico, wondered how many of the people he
encountered were nominally Catholic. In his experience, he said, many Latin
Americans drew close to the faith around Holy Week or on patron saint feast
days.

''We need an internal dialogue to revive these people,'' he said. ''Latin
America has faith, but it has to grow, to mature. We have to go forward and live
the faith and turn it into a social commitment.''

Yet sometimes, the feast day is the best way, and perhaps the only way, to bring
people together.

The next Sunday, Mr. Guerra went to Santa Lucia Church to join some 100
immigrants from Colombia on the feast of that country's patron, Nuestra Senora
del Rosario de Chiquinquira. The Rev. Hector Aya, a Scalabrinian priest, wore a
stole emblazoned with flags of the Spanish-speaking world.

He echoed Pope Benedict's message at his installation Mass. ''Remember,'' he
said. ''We are not alone in Italy.''

A short procession left the church after Mass, as the worshipers returned to a
concrete playground where they ate empanadas and danced, all under the serene
gaze of their patroness. Father Aya took off his vestments, revealing a soccer
shirt in the Colombian national colors. Slowly, people slipped off into the
stream of scooters, cars and pedestrians scurrying past.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A lay leader, Carlos Mejias, with younger immigrants. Nelly
Cando, right, from Ecuador, said: ''We need to be closer. ... We need unity.''
 Latin Americans in Rome pose challenges to the Vatican to keep them in the
fold. Colombians danced at Santa Lucia Church after evening Mass. (Photographs
by Jake Price for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Skilled Foreigners Find Jobs Scarce in Canada

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1166 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia, June 2


Gian S. Sangha wanted to work so badly he cut his hair and removed his turban
when interviewing, even though it compromised his Sikh beliefs. He sent hundreds
of resumes. He prayed fervently and finally bought a Buddha statue for good
luck.

But Mr. Sangha, 55, an environmental scientist from India, could not seem to get
a job in Canada, his adopted country, despite a doctorate from Germany, two
published books and university teaching experience in the United States.

''Here in Canada, there is a hidden discrimination,'' Mr. Sangha said over cups
of Indian tea and spicy pakoras, or fritters, in the dining room of his home in
the suburb of Surrey. To scrape by, he once cut lawns, and now does clerical
work and shares his house with his extended family.

It was not supposed to be this way in Canada, which years ago put out a welcome
mat to professionals around the developing world. With a declining birthrate, an
aging population and labor shortages in many areas, Canada, a sparsely populated
nation, has for decades encouraged foreign engineers, health professionals,
software designers and electricians.

But the results of this policy have been mixed, for Canada and for the
immigrants. Recent census data and academic studies indicate that the incomes
and employment prospects of immigrants are deteriorating. Specialists say a
growing number of immigrants have been forced to rely on unemployment insurance
and welfare, and some have even returned to their homelands or migrated to the
United States.

About 25 percent of recent immigrants with a university degree are working at
jobs that require only a high school diploma or less, government data show.

''The most mobile workers in the world come to Canada and find themselves
immobilized,'' said Faviola Fernandez, a teacher from Singapore who became an
immigrant advocate after finding the process of getting a teaching license in
Canada so unwieldy that she gave up.

Over the last decade, the country has attracted 200,000 to 250,000 immigrants a
year -- measured as a percentage of the population, that is triple the rate in
the United States. Canada's largest cities are ethnic mosaics of great
diversity. One in every six people in Canada immigrated, giving it the world's
second-highest proportion of immigrants. Only Australia's is higher.

Officials in South Africa and other countries have even begun to complain to
Canadian officials that they are losing talent trained in their universities in
a brain drain they can ill afford.

But very frequently, highly skilled immigrants, who are nearly half of those who
come here, are driving taxis and trucks, working in factories or as security
guards, and hoping their children will do better.

The Canadian public continues to support the government's goal of increasing
immigration, and relations among ethnic groups are good, though neighborhoods in
some cities are becoming more segregated. But some fear that if opportunities
for immigrants do not expand, social cohesion may suffer.

''The existing system is broken,'' said Jeffrey G. Reitz, a sociologist who
studies immigration at the University of Toronto. ''The deteriorating employment
situation might mean that Canada will not be able to continue this expansionist
immigration program in the positive, politically supported environment that
we've seen in the past.''

Mr. Reitz estimates that foreign-educated immigrants earn a total of $2 billion
less than an equivalent number of native-born Canadians with comparable skills
because they work in jobs below their training levels. Drawing on census data,
he judges that in 1980, new immigrant men earned 80 percent of the salaries of
native Canadian men, and that the proportion has now dropped to less than 70
percent.

He concludes that immigrant earnings in Canada are declining to the lower levels
of the United States, where the skill levels of immigrants tend to be lower.

Academic specialists and immigrant advocates say that discrimination is one of
many reasons for the problem. Native-born Canadians are better educated now than
25 years ago, so immigrants have more competition, some specialists note. But
all agree that professional organizations and provincial licensing agencies have
been slow to recognize foreign professional qualifications. The children of
immigrants, who enter the job market with Canadian credentials, typically do
better at acquiring high-paying jobs, immigration specialists note.

''We have an arcane infrastructure of professional organizations that
essentially mitigate against the immediate integration of these highly skilled
immigrants,'' Joe Volpe, the minister of citizenship and immigration, conceded
in an interview.

''It's a shame we have a shortage of doctors, and yet we have thousands of
foreign trained medical doctors and we don't recognize their credentials,'' he
said. ''We haven't found an easy way of assessing their qualifications.''

Mr. Volpe said he was concerned that news from disappointed job seekers would
seep back to their native countries and discourage qualified people from
immigrating. In a recent speech, Mr. Volpe committed more than $250 million over
five years to pay for programs to accelerate professional integration.
Complaints abound from those caught in this bind -- encouraged to come by
federal policy, but hamstrung by expensive, time-consuming hurdles created by
regulatory agencies and professional organizations.

''Canada advertises that there are no foreigners here, that everyone is at home
in this multicultural dream,'' said Farid A. Hadi, 40, a gynecologist who
arrived from Egypt last year and is out of work. He is one of 1,200 applicants
for 200 spots in an Ontario program to assess and retain foreign doctors seeking
licenses to practice in the province. With his savings disappearing, he is
looking for lab work.

''I'll do whatever I need to support my family,'' he added, referring to his
wife and three children.

Mr. Sangha is another example. Since the Canadian Embassy in India and a
Canadian immigration consultant encouraged him to bring his family here in 1996,
he has not had a single job that fits his qualifications. He would have left
Canada long ago, he says, if not for his two children, who have become
acclimated to Canada and are now young adults. In 2001, Mr. Sangha was turned
down for a job as an environmental inspector with an agency of the Northwest
Territories government. He took the case to the Canadian Human Rights
Commission, where it is under consideration.

The territorial government agency told the commission that Mr. Sangha had been
rejected because he was overqualified and would have become bored. But Mr.
Sangha said in an interview that, during his job interview, an agency official
had shown crude disrespect by interrupting him and not paying attention to his
responses, and that he was the victim of discrimination. ''It's a painful
life,'' he said. ''I'm angry and frustrated. I never thought it would be like
this in Canada.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gian S. Sangha, an environmental scientist from India who has
failed to land a job commensurate with his skills in Canada, with his wife,
Sukhminder, left, and mother, Kishan, at home in Surrey, British Columbia.
(Photo by Jeff Vinnick/Klixpix, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Striving in America, and in the Spelling Bee

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 754 words


FOR many American contestants, the most uncommon words at last week's national
spelling bee were not appoggiatura and onychophagy, but the names of the top
four finishers: Anurag Kashyap, Aliya Deri, Samir Patel and Rajiv Tarigopula.
All were of Indian ancestry.

In recent years, descendants of Indian immigrants -- less than 1 percent of the
population -- have dominated this contest, snatching first place in five of the
past seven years, and making up more than 30 of the 273 contestants this year.

Behind those statistics lies a beguiling story, not just of immigrant pluck, but
of a craze that seems to have swept through the Indian-American community.

Excellence in a number of fields has always had a cultural tinge -- consider the
prevalence of Dominicans in baseball, Jews in violin playing, Kenyans in
long-distance running. In 1985, when a 13-year-old son of Indian immigrants,
Balu Natarajan, beat out his competitors by spelling ''milieu,'' it had an
electrifying impact on his countrymen, much as Juan Marichal's conquest of
baseball had for Dominicans. Balu not only became an overnight Indian sensation,
one whose name resonates 20 years later, but other Indian-Americans have tried
to emulate his feat.

Certainly, immigrant strivers have always done astonishingly well in national
academic contests, not to mention in school in general. In some years, more than
a quarter of the 40 winners in the Intel Science Talent Search, known originally
as the Westinghouse awards, have been immigrants or their children.

Interviews with those winners, many who are the children of seamstresses or
small-time shopkeepers, reveal that to bring the glow of accomplishment into
their parents' spare lives, they will sacrifice television viewing and
socializing to work on agonizingly slow and complicated experiments.

But Indians brought to spelling mastery some particular advantages, said
Madhulika S. Khandelwal, an Indian immigrant who directs the Asian American
Center at Queens College. Their parents or grandparents were usually educated,
often as scientists or engineers; their parents generally spoke English and
appreciated the springboard powers of education.

Unlike many American children who are schooled in sometimes amorphous
whole-language approaches to reading and writing, Indians are comfortable with
the rote-learning methods of their homeland, the kind needed to master lists of
obscure words that easily stump spell-checker programs. They do not regard
champion spellers as nerds.

By 1993, the North South Foundation, based outside of Chicago and devoted to
making sure Indians here do as well in English as in math, set up a parallel
universe of spelling bees. Now 60 chapters around the country hold such
contests, according to its founder, Ratnam Chitturi.

They become a minor-league training ground for the major league 80-year-old
Scripps National Spelling Bee, which was started by The Louisville
Courier-Journal as a way to promote ''general interest among pupils in a dull
subject.''

The enthusiasm has spread. There are now chat rooms and blogs where Indians
discuss spelling. Stories about the contests are featured prominently in
community newspapers.

''When you see a kid spelling correctly, there was the excitement that he was
representing all of us,'' said Arun Venugopal, a reporter for the newspaper
India Abroad who has written about the spelling bees.

Indian families throw themselves in fevered fashion behind their youngsters,
drilling them on esoteric words and etymologies, Greek and Latin roots, as well
as from spelling lists provided on the Scripps Web site. In doing so, they are
as single-minded as other American parents, who have been known to help their
fledgling gymnasts, tennis players and singers.

The 2003 documentary ''Spellbound,'' about the 1999 national spelling bee,
offered its own example of pushy kin. The father of one Indian contestant, Neil,
mentions that a relative back home in India has hired a thousand people to chant
prayers during the bee and promised to provide meals for 5,000 if Neil should
win.

Mr. Natarajan, the 1985 winner and now a 33-year-old doctor of sports medicine,
described the contest as a ''a bridge between that which is Indian and that
which is American,'' and it may be that the example of Neil's father is a bridge
too far.

But overall, Mr. Natarajan said, the Indian record on spelling bees ''gives the
community quite a bit of confidence that we can do well here, much like other
ethnicities pursuing the American dream.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Indian-American wins again: Anurag Kashyap. (Photo by Jason
Reed/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 6, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On a Discount Shopping Strip in Brooklyn, Immigrants Report Illegal Wages

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Beyond the Bargains,
Grievances; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1459 words


Like many shopping strips in immigrant neighborhoods, Knickerbocker Avenue in
Bushwick is overflowing with 99-cent stores, cuchifrito stands, sneaker shops --
and egregious wage and hour violations.

At the Super Star 99 discount store at 353 Knickerbocker, employees say they
work 63 hours a week for $260, which works out to $4.13 an hour, far below the
state minimum wage of $6 an hour and the federal minimum of $5.15.

At the Nuevo Mexico restaurant at 276 Knickerbocker, Patricia Reyes, a
29-year-old waitress and cook, said she received just $165 a week, including
tips, for 72 hours of work, which comes to $2.29 an hour.

And at Footco, a bustling sneaker shop at 431 Knickerbocker, workers said they
earned $4.75 an hour working more than 50 hours a week.

For many workers in Bushwick, Brooklyn, the possibility of receiving the legally
required time and a half for overtime, even when they work 80-hour weeks, seems
as likely as winning the lottery.

''They always told us work faster, faster, and the money was really bad,'' said
Deisi Cortes, who worked as a stocker at Super Star 99 until April when she was
fired, she said, for being pregnant. ''We'd ask for a raise, and all they'd say
is, 'Maybe later on.'''

Knickerbocker Avenue is in many ways the face of New York's traditional retail
life outside of central Manhattan's wealthy shopping locales, with bodegas,
low-cost stores, and ethnic restaurants jumbled together in a confusion of
awnings and blaring signs. Immigrant shopping strips like this one in Bushwick
and others in Corona, Jamaica, Sunset Park and Washington Heights not only serve
the working class but just as often exploit it with widespread wage violations,
according to economists, sociologists, immigrant advocates and community groups.

''New York is like the wild, wild West,'' said Annette Bernhardt, a senior
policy analyst with the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University Law
School. ''The violations are on such a scale that nobody can monitor all of
them.'' She said widespread violations in Bushwick mirrored those in many
businesses that rely on immigrants -- greengrocers, laundries, restaurants and
garment factories.

The large number of unskilled immigrant workers, many of them here illegally,
helps create a fertile climate for wage violations on streets like
Knickerbocker. In addition, many immigrant storeowners are unfamiliar with wage
laws and not much concerned about them, and the government has been less than
vigorous in enforcing them.

''It's pretty stunning the extent to which stores here break wage and hour
laws,'' said Deborah Axt, a lawyer with Make the Road by Walking, an immigrant
advocacy group in Bushwick. ''The violations seem epidemic.''

Robert C. Smith, a sociologist at Baruch College, said recent interviews and
surveys he conducted showed that half of New York's illegal immigrants were paid
less than the minimum wage, partly because many are too scared to speak out. But
many legal immigrants also face wage violations, and some say storeowners offer
them less than the minimum wage if they do not speak passable English.

It might seem odd that federal and state officials demand that employers pay the
minimum wage to illegal immigrants. But officials say enforcing wage laws, even
for those workers, is important to prevent the exploitation of any employees,
legal or not, and to discourage employers from hiring illegal immigrants for
cut-rate wages when jobs might have gone to Americans or legal immigrants at $7
or $8 an hour. In addition, wage enforcement helps deter off-the-books work that
deprives the government of tax revenue.

Concerned about the high rate of wage violations, Make the Road by Walking and
the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union have adopted an unusual
strategy. They are collecting information about violations from scores of
workers on Knickerbocker Avenue. The two groups plan to confront storeowners
with this evidence and give them a choice: either face a lawsuit or government
action seeking maximum back pay, or agree to unionization and face a less
aggressive push for back pay.

Bushwick teems with newcomers from Mexico, Ecuador and the Dominican Republic,
and Knickerbocker Avenue, as with many immigrant-dominated retail strips, is
characterized by low prices, low wages and shoppers with low incomes. At stores
like National 99 Cent or Less, LaCasa Discount and Barato Variety, shoppers can
find cans of Coke for 49 cents, flower-print bedspreads for $14.99 and
pinstriped suits for $79.99.

At Minimax, a discount store at 437 Knickerbocker, Sofia Campos said she earned
$3.80 an hour until she was fired when she missed work one day because her
daughter had a high fever. Other Minimax workers said they also were getting
$3.8o an hour for 63 hours of work before the owners paid $65,000 last year to
settle a lawsuit over wage violations. The workers said the store now paid the
minimum wage.

Emilio Cortes said he received $320, or $4.38 an hour, for his 73-hour workweeks
at S & S Farms before it reached a $28,000 settlement in March with the state
attorney general, Eliot Spitzer. Mr. Cortes said he was paid $6 an hour now.

Morris Cohen, the owner of Minimax, did not respond to three phone messages, and
Khubib Masoud, the manager of Super Star 99, declined to comment. The owner of
Footco, the sneaker store, did not return two phone calls, but workers at the
store refused to give their names because they feared they would be fired for
complaining. A manager at Nuevo Mexico restaurant denied any wage violations.

Some storeowners acknowledged that the intense competition on Knickerbocker
Avenue created pressure to flout wage laws to save money.

''Some new people, they come, and they try to squeeze people,'' said Adelo
Jreige, who has owned Adelo's Shoes for 20 years, making him a respected veteran
on the ever-changing avenue. ''Rent is going crazy, and it's hard to operate,
and people do what they can to manage.''

Mr. Jreige said he complied with labor laws. ''I have people making $7 an hour,
$6.50 and $5.75,'' he said, apparently unaware that on Jan. 1, New York's
minimum wage rose to $6, from $5.15.

Steve Kim, the manager of Morris Discounts, at 348 Knickerbocker, acknowledged
that his store paid some workers $5 an hour in cash. ''If you make $6 on the
books, wouldn't it be smarter to make $5 off the books?'' he said. ''Some people
prefer to get cash. It's good, and they don't pay taxes.''

The retail union and Make the Road by Walking say that a half century ago, half
of Knickerbocker Avenue's stores were unionized, but that just two were now. The
groups assert that unionization would be preferable to occasional back-pay
settlements because it would mean long-term improvements in wages and benefits.

''The State Department of Labor is completely overwhelmed and doesn't seem to
have enough commitment or resources to do the job properly,'' said Andrew
Friedman, a co-director of Make the Road by Walking. ''My sense is many folks
are very scared to stand up and complain because they worry about losing their
jobs and because they have a perception that the State Labor Department isn't
interested in protecting the rights of immigrants.''

Robert Lillpopp, the department's spokesman, said its investigators pursued
complaints, regardless of a worker's immigration status. He noted that the
agency recently expanded the mandate of its Apparel Industry Task Force to
include many low-wage industries.

But Julia Ortiz, a Dominican immigrant, faulted the department's investigation
of the discount store where she worked. In November, Ms. Ortiz and a coworker,
Consuelo Echeverry, protested to the department, saying the store, Save Smart,
paid them $35 for 11-hour workdays, equal to $3.18 an hour. Shortly after the
state sent investigators to the store, Ms. Ortiz said, the manager fired her and
Ms. Echeverry because he was angry that they had complained to the state.

Ms. Ortiz said that when she complained to the Labor Department that it had
violated its promise to keep their names confidential, officials told her their
identities had been divulged at the store owner's insistence. ''We felt totally
betrayed,'' Ms. Ortiz said.

Ali Hamad, Save Smart's manager, declined to comment. Mr. Lillpopp said the
investigators would not have disclosed the names because state regulations bar
officials from revealing the identities of complaining workers while
investigations are in progress. ''It didn't happen,'' he said, adding that the
department was still investigating the store.

''Sometimes it felt like we were working for nothing,'' Ms. Ortiz said. ''I
don't know why we didn't leave. We were afraid that we would end up without
jobs.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Consuelo Echeverry, left, and Julia Ortiz said their employer,
Save Smart on Knickerbocker Avenue, fired them after the state disclosed their
pay complaints. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 Emilio Cortes with state checks covering his overdue back pay, after his
employer, S&S Farms, reached a $28,000 settlement with the state.Map of Brooklyn
highlighting Knickerbocker Avenue: A strip of Knickerbocker Avenue is the site
of pay complaints. (pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 7, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Midwest: Michigan: Bail For Kurd

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 118 words


A federal judge has ordered a Kurd released on bail while he appeals his
deportation to Turkey and questioned the government's motives in bringing
terrorism charges against a ''model immigrant.'' Judge Avern Cohn of Federal
District Court in Detroit set bail at $50,000 on Friday for the man, Ibrahim
Parlak, but postponed the release order for 10 days so the government could
appeal. The government says Mr. Parlak had ties to the Kurdistan Workers' Party,
classified a terrorist group in 1997 by the State Department. His supporters say
that he was never involved in violence and that he could face reprisals in
Turkey. Mr. Parlak, 43, has been jailed since his arrest last July. He was
granted asylum in 1992.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 7, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS DIGEST

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 705 words



A Market in Identity Rental Emerges As a Strategy for Immigrants, Legal and
Illegal
An underground market has emerged in renting identities, complete with
legitimate Social Security numbers, by illegal immigrants who are willing to
pay, and even contribute to the renters' Social Security accounts, to live and
work in the United States. [Page A1.]

Ex-Insurance Executive to Plead Guilty in A.I.G. Case
A former senior executive of the General Re Corporation plans to plead guilty
this week to federal criminal charges of helping the insurer American
International Group doctor its books, his lawyer said. [C1.]

Study Finds Pension Law Loopholes Used by United
Loopholes in the federal pension law allowed United Airlines to treat its
pension fund as solid for years, when it was dangerously weakening, according to
an analysis that will be presented to a Senate committee today. [C1.]

Defections Depict Uncertainty for Chinese Auto Venture
The future of Visionary Vehicles, an upstart company being created by Malcolm
Bricklin, left, who intended to bring the first Chinese-made automobiles to the
United States by 2007, appears to be in doubt after two executives resigned
after working for the company for only a few months. [C1.]

Gray Areas Abound in Corporate Discrimination Cases
A discrimination suit filed by an executive at General Electric shows that no
matter how race-neutral its policies are, no company can be certain that it is
immune from discrimination charges. [C1.]

Another Executive Resigns From Morgan Stanley
Another senior executive resigned from Morgan Stanley, extending what has become
a stream of departures from the investment bank. [C5.]

Greenspan Warns of Danger of Low Interest Rates
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned that the persistence of
low long-term interest rates was driving investors to hunt for higher returns by
plowing money into hedge funds that will not be able to deliver on their
promise. [C3.]

Justice Department Investigating Quest Diagnostics Deals
Quest Diagnostics, the nation's largest provider of medical lab tests, said the
Justice Department was investigating contracts and business dealings with health
care providers from 1993 through 1999. [C4.]

The Bush administration plans to award $50 million in contracts to companies
that can help it create a national health information network. [C5.]

Mortgage Lender Acquires Credit Card Concern
Washington Mutual, one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders, plans to buy a
credit card issuer, Providian Financial, for $6.45 billion. [C2.]

Real Estate Company Buys a Rival for $3.6 Billion
ProLogis, a real estate investment trust, said that it had agreed to acquire the
Catellus Development Corporation, a rival, for $3.6 billion in cash and stock.
The deal, which continues a trend in the commercial real estate industry, pairs
two companies that specialize in industrial warehouse and distribution
properties. [C8.]

Online Shopping Site Bought by E.W. Scripps
The media company E.W. Scripps said it had agreed to buy Shopzilla, a privately
held online comparison shopping site, for $525 million. [C4.]

A Potential Bidder for Allied Domecq Steps Aside
Pernod Ricard advanced in its attempt to buy Allied Domecq, the No. 2 liquor
maker in the world, as Diageo, the market leader, agreed to stick to the
sidelines after agreeing to buy the Bushmills Irish whiskey brand from Pernod
and received an option to acquire a New Zealand wine business. [C6.]

Europe Accepts Limit on Microsoft Antitrust Rule
The competition commissioner of Europe has agreed to exclude open-source
developers, who distribute their software free, from the benefits of the
antitrust ruling last year against Microsoft -- but only for the time being.
[C4.]

Networks Match Last Year With Fall Ad Sales
The six big broadcast television networks are wrapping up efforts to sell
commercial time ahead of the 2005-6 season with the total expected to match or
slightly exceed that of last year. [C5.]

Stocks Make Small Gains in Slow Trading
Stocks edged up in slow trading. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.06
points, to 10,467.03. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 1.49 points,
to 1,197.51. The Nasdaq composite index rose 4.33 points, to 2,075.76. [C8.]


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Catellus through May
and June. (May: $27.28 -- June: $32.99)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Tennessee: Mother Granted Visitation Rights

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 152 words


A Mexican immigrant mother who was once ordered to learn English or risk losing
her child was granted temporary visitation rights. Judge Clara Byrd of Wilson
County Circuit Court approved a settlement giving custody of the child, Linda
Barrera, 11, to her father but allowed the mother, Felipa Barrera, visitation.
The judge will review the case in October to see whether Linda is doing well at
her father's home, where she is set to move July 24. Both parents live in
Lebanon, about 25 miles east of Nashville. Linda was placed in a temporary
foster home about a year ago after she told investigators her mother had yanked
her ear and her sister-in-law hit her with a stick. In October, a juvenile court
judge told Ms. Barrera, who speaks only an indigenous Mexican language, Mixteco,
that she would need to show basic English proficiency when she returned to
court, but he changed his order in a later hearing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Hispanic Minority Growing

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 172 words


One of every seven people in the United States is Hispanic, a record number that
will probably keep rising because of immigration and a birth rate outstripping
that of non-Hispanic blacks and whites. The largest minority group accounted for
half of the overall population growth of 2.9 million from July 2003 to July
2004, according to a Census Bureau report being released today. The agency
estimated there are 41.3 million Hispanics in the United States. The bureau does
not ask people about their legal status; that number is intended to include both
legal and other residents. The population growth for Asians ran a close second.
Lewis W. Goodman, an American University expert on relations between the United
States and Latin America, said that without immigration from both groups, the
United States would be faced with demographic changes like those in Japan and
Europe ''where the populations are graying in a way that is very alarming and
endangering their productivity and endangering even their social security
systems.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Back to Where They Came From

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; The City Life; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 398 words


As America wrestles once more with immigration reform, historical lessons lurk
on Ellis Island, beginning with a striking photograph of Emma Goldman, simply
described as a ''Russian Jewish anarchist'' by Augustus Sherman, a registry
clerk on the island and a discreet amateur photographer. In his invaluable,
generation-long avocation amid the great comings and goings of aliens, Sherman
politely asked to take Goldman's picture as she and 248 other accused radicals
and Bolsheviks were feverishly deported to Russia in 1919 -- also a time of a
domestic terrorism scare. Goldman posed grandly for him and now stares out from
a trove of Sherman photos that have been restored and displayed as part of the
island's modern role as the national immigration museum.

These photos are particularly evocative because the photographer deliberately
sought archetypes among the millions of people pouring through -- or being cast
back from -- the threshold of the New World. Sherman asked them to pose in his
back-room studio, ideally dressed in the native costumes that would soon be
disappearing in the e-pluribus-unum millings of mainland assimilation.

Rather than the grand steerage tableaus of Stieglitz, the work left by Sherman
includes mesmerizing moments of mustached Cossacks in full regalia, proudly
grasping swords; bonneted Dutch Protestant women, whose eyes seem aching for
liberty; exotically handsome tribal immigrants from Ethiopia; Roman shepherds,
ready for the hills of Brooklyn; three Guadeloupe women, staring imperiously in
fine Victorian gowns; and hundreds more.

The search for types seems oddly reflected these days in the stringent security
that vets the tourists waiting in dense crowds to ferry over to glimpse the
past. The scene at the Battery's shore reverses the old immigrant themes. How
obediently the people inch through tedious antiterrorist electronic inspection
lines under the firm watch of uniformed guards. At the detectors, the members of
the throng instantly yield belts, watches, wallets, jackets, cellphones and more
to pass inspection and get back to the New World portal that was once so heavily
guarded in the opposite direction. They rush to disembark on the island for the
chance to study old photos of would-be greenhorns, anxiously obeying earlier
officers who were on guard for potential troublemakers who didn't belong here.
FRANCIS X. CLINES

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Describes Immigrants As Younger and More Diverse

BYLINE: By JOHN FILES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 713 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


New Census Bureau figures released on Thursday show that the immigrant
population in the United States is becoming younger, a shift likely to foster
more tolerance for diversity and perhaps accelerate assimilation, demographers
and immigration experts say.

The figures show that immigration trends are forming a unique generational
divide: those immigrants over 40 are largely white, while those under 40 are
increasingly Hispanic, Asian and from other minority groups.

''The older, white-dominated society is thinning out into the past,'' William H.
Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said. ''It is being replaced
by the broad diversity of a younger generation.''

Mr. Frey added: ''We will become a more tolerant society as these young people
move toward adulthood and a blurring occurs of the sharp racial distinctions of
the previous decades.''

The increase in younger immigrants is particularly noticeable among the nation's
largest minority group, Hispanics, half of whom are under age 27. One of every
five children under age 18 in the United States is Hispanic, the census figures
show.

Hispanics accounted for about half of the overall population growth of 2.9
million people from 2003 to 2004, according to the census report. One of every
seven people in the United States is Hispanic, a record number that experts say
will keep increasing because of continued immigration and a birth rate that
outpaces that of non-Hispanic blacks and whites.

The Hispanic growth rate of 3.6 percent in the period looked at was more than
three times the 1 percent rate for the total population. (The rate was 3.4
percent for Asians, 1.9 percent for Pacific Islanders, 1.2 percent for American
Indians, 1.1 percent for blacks and 0.3 percent for whites.)

The Census Bureau said that in July 2004, there were 41.3 million Hispanics out
of a national population of nearly 294 million.

Political scientists and immigration experts debate whether Hispanics will
achieve the success of the Greeks, Italians and other Europeans of the last
century who were often assimilated after two or three generations.

Hispanic immigrants generally enter the country with a low level of education
and take up low-paying jobs, and often struggle economically.

But Rodolfo O. de la Garza, a political science professor at Columbia
University, said he was encouraged by the census figures, saying that the
growing Hispanic population reflected a ''powerful cultural transformation.''

Mr. de la Garza said most of the immigrants who arrived in the United States
were part of a working population of relatively young people. As their children
begin to attend school and learn English, he said, they will become part of a
blended culture that is ''influencing and being influenced more openly'' by
mainstream American mores and attitudes.

Mr. de la Garza, who is 60, said that when he was young the idea of a
Mexican-American riding the waves was ridiculous. ''Now there are Chicano
surfers,'' he said. ''It is indicative of cultural incorporation. ''

The relatively youthful immigrants will also likely lead to a geographic
expansion beyond traditionally ethnic areas around the country, Mr. de la Garza
said.

''The Mexicans are never going to all get out of California and the Latins are
not all going to leave Florida,'' he said. ''But there probably will be more
movement. With success and education, there is naturally more mobility.''

Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer for the Pew Hispanic Center here, said that
since 2000 Hispanic births had outnumbered Hispanic immigrants.

''It is the beginning of this process,'' Mr. Passel said. ''A large share of
Hispanic immigrants have been here a short time. The concept of what it means to
be Hispanic in America will change as the population matures, and a greater
percentage of American-born Hispanics increases.''

Mr. Passel and Mr. Frey, of Brookings, both said the changing dynamic of the
immigrant population in the United States would help it prosper in a global
economy.

While Japan and some European countries have taken restrictive stances toward
immigration and endangered their own productivity as a result, they said, the
United States will benefit from a work force that is evolving into a more
diverse group.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Fastest Growing Groups''Hispanics were the fastest growing
group in the United States from July 1, 2003, to July 1, 2004, according to
population estimates that were released yesterday by the Census Bureau.Group:
HispanicJuly 1, 2004 population: 41,322,070Change since 1 year earlierIncrease:
+1,420,469Percent change: +3.6%Percentage that is age0-17: 3418-34: 3135-54:
3555+: 11Share of total U.S. population: 14.1%Group: AsianJuly 1, 2004
population: 12,068,424Change since 1 year earlierIncrease: +401,373Percent
change:Percentage that is age0-17: 2318-34: 2935-54: 3155+: 17Share of total
U.S. population: 4.1Group: Two or more racesJuly 1, 2004 population:
3,855,478Change since 1 year earlierIncrease: +108,873Percent change:
+2.9Percentage that is age0-17: 4518-34: 2435-54: 1955+: 11Share of total U.S.
population: 1.3Group: Pacific Islander*July 1, 2004 population: 398,161Change
since 1 year earlierIncrease: +7,466Percent change: +1.9Percentage that is
age0-17: 2818-34: 3035-54: 2855+: 14Share of total U.S. population: 0.1Group:
American Indian+July 1, 2004 population: 2,206,748Change since 1 year
earlierIncrease: +26,104Percent change: +1.2Percentage that is age0-17: 3018-34:
2635-54: 2855+: 16Share of total U.S. population: 12.2Group: BlackJuly 1, 2004
population: 35,963,702Change since 1 year earlierIncrease: +386,407Percent
change: +1.1Percentage that is age0-17: 3018-34: 2635-54: 2855+: 16Share of
total U.S. population: 12.2Group: WhiteJuly 1, 2004 population:
197,840,821Change since 1 year earlierIncrease: +515,736Percent change:
+0.3Percentage that is age0-17: 2218-34: 2135-54: 3055+: 26Share of total U.S.
population: 67.4Group: Total populationJuly 1, 2004 population:
293,655,404Change since 1 year earlierIncrease: +2,866,428Percent change:
+1.0Percentage that is age0-17: 2518-34: 2435-54: 2955+: 22Share of total U.S.
population: 100.0* Includes Native Hawaiians. + Includes Alaska Natives.Note:
Hispanics are not included in other groups.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 15, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Crossover Hit For a Global Star

BYLINE: By JOAN NATHAN

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2117 words


AT 8 a.m., Elly Hushour hoists a bright blue flag with a white goat over her
Greenmarket stand.

Until last year, Ms. Hushour, 47, a farmer from Nazareth, Pa., sold cheese and
yogurt made from the milk of her Saanen goats, the same breed that Heidi of the
storybook tended for her grandfather in the Swiss Alps. Then she recognized a
growing market for goats themselves, or rather, goat shanks, shoulders and so
on.

At first she drew customers from the various immigrant neighborhoods around her
stand at the Fort Greene market in Brooklyn, where she is open on Saturdays.
Then the crowds at the Union Square Market, where she goes on Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays, started buying too.

''I have been quite surprised and pleased at the response to goat meat from the
general public,'' she said. ''It has been a learning experience for me.''

Driven mainly by the growing number of immigrants for whom goat was the everyday
meat in their home countries, demand for fresh goat increased threefold from
1991 to 2002, said Dr. Tatiana Stanton, a expert on goat husbandry at Cornell
University. According to the Agriculture Department, the number of goats
slaughtered in the United States annually quintupled from 1980 to 2002, growing
to 500,000 animals in 2002, the most recent year for which full figures are
available.

Goat is just beginning to be found in some mainstream supermarkets here. But it
has been showing up more and more on restaurant menus. Zak Pelaccio, chef at 5
Ninth in the meatpacking district, stops by Ms. Hushour's stand for goat
shoulder, which he braises in goat's milk that he also buys from her.

Lydia Ratcliff, a Vermont farmer whose co-op delivers goat meat to restaurants
in New York, including L'Impero, San Domenico and Chanterelle, said she has
learned to provide for different styles of cooking.

''Greeks and Italians like small nursing kids,'' Ms. Ratcliff said. ''They are
especially interested in having goats at Easter night. Jamaicans buy bigger,
older goats, which they cut up and turn into curry.''

Steve Bogart, chef at the Single Pebble, a Chinese restaurant in Burlington,
Vt., and one of Ms. Ratcliff's customers, serves young goat leg braised with soy
sauce, ginger, star anise, cinnamon bark and rice wine.

''This is a very popular way of cooking in northern China, where the climate is
colder and people like heartier food,'' he said. ''The texture is similar to
young lamb, has more flavor than veal, doesn't have that lamb-y taste, and it
sells out every time I have it on the menu.''

In East Los Angeles, birrierias del chivo, which serve goat, have become as
established as hamburger stands in other neighborhoods. A birria is technically
a stew or slow roast made of goat, but here tortillas are stuffed with slowly
roasted goat, chopped onion, cilantro and a hot red sauce from Jalisco in
central Mexico.

''Birrierias have gone from being novelties to real institutions,'' said
Jonathan Gold, a writer for Gourmet and L.A. Weekly. ''In the 80's there were
one or two of these birrierias. Now there are hundreds.''

Scott Conant was the first New York chef to make goat a signature dish at a
high-end restaurant when he served capretto -- roast baby goat -- at L'Impero
three years ago. The capretto was a dish his Italian grandmother made when he
was growing up in the Bronx.

''I would roast the whole kid the way she did,'' Mr. Conant said. ''But it's
tough to cook a whole goat in a New York kitchen.''

L'Impero is in Tudor City, near the United Nations, and his international
clientele made goat liver a best-seller. ''At first Americans came to taste for
the novelty,'' Mr. Conant said. ''Now they come because they like it.''

At Maestro, in the Ritz-Carlton in Tysons Corner, Va., which has many Muslim
customers, the chef, Fabio Trabocchi, receives four whole baby goats every week
from a farmer in Lakewood, Pa., who uses a halal slaughterhouse, which kills
animals according to Muslim law. Mr. Trabocchi butchers them at his restaurant.

He marinates the upper legs in rosemary, garlic, wine and olive oil, then
braises them in the oven, after briefly smoking them over hay in the pot.

''The meat has to be cooked gently to tenderize it,'' said Mr. Trabocchi, who
grew up on the Adriatic coast of Italy, where goat meat was common. Like many of
his dishes, his traditionally braised goat is elevated from its humble origins
-- foie gras is stuffed between slices of the tender meat.

Sue Torres features goat wrapped in avocado leaves, rubbed with chili, and
steamed in beer at her restaurant Suenos in Chelsea.

''The first time I ate goat was in Oaxaca,'' Ms. Torres said. ''It was the most
succulent dish I had ever tasted. The goats were wrapped in all kinds of corn
husks, banana and avocado leaves, with anise.'' Then they were steam-roasted for
12 hours, she said.

Most of the goats for markets on the East Coast come through the New Holland
Goat Auction in Pennsylvania, the second largest in the country after the one in
San Angelo, Tex. Farmers from Tennessee, Kentucky and the Carolinas sell their
sheep, cattle and goats at New Holland.

''Goats used to be a novelty, only for sale as pets at Easter,'' said Barb
Riehls, who has been working in the office at the auction house for 38 years.
''Now we auction over 1,000 a week.''

At a recent auction, held in an old wooden ring encircled by bleachers, bearded
Amish workers in black hats herded in goats and sheep while Caribbean, West
African and Middle Eastern brokers from New York bid on the animals.

''Every year there are more requests for goats,'' said Jimmy Ziyadah, of ZD
Quality Meat, a wholesaler in Paterson, N.J. Mr. Ziyadah makes the five-hour
round trip to the auction twice a week, buying about 200 to 250 lambs, 25 cows,
and 60 to 70 goats per week. He slaughters them in Newark, then takes them to
halal markets in the metropolitan New York area.

When he can't get all that the demand requires at the auction, he will travel as
far as livestock auctions in Leesburg, Va., or Greencastle, Pa.

''My customers want whole, fresh meat that they can cut up themselves,'' he
said.

Vinny Ahluwalia gets goat for Tandoori Hut, his restaurant in Richmond Hill,
Queens, from the nearby Atlantic Halal Meat on Atlantic Avenue. His most popular
goat dish is goat kadhi, a stew of baby goat, tomatoes, chopped onions and green
pepper.

''We've been eating it since we were small kids.'' Mr. Ahluwalia said.

But many Indian chefs at more mainstream restaurants are more cautious with
goat.

Rajesh Bhardwaj, an owner of the Cafe Spice chain of Indian restaurants, makes a
delicious goat stew, fragrant with coriander, cinnamon and tomatoes.

''If my clientele were 100 percent Indian, I would put it on the menu, but I
have an American clientele,'' Mr. Bhardwaj said. ''It just doesn't work, so we
substitute lamb.''

Although Mr. Bhardwaj, like most chefs, prefers young goat or kid, many Indians
prefer older goats for their flavorful, long-simmering stews.

Today most American farmers raise the Boer goat, first bred in the 1930's by
South African farmers, and first imported to the United States in 1992. Before
that, the few Americans who ate goat ate buck dairy goat kids or a breed of
Spanish origin that entered Texas from Mexico.

Some goat breeds are raised for mohair and cashmere. But an end to federal
subsidies for farmers raising goats for fiber, beginning in 1993, led many of
those farmers to switch to meat goats.

Most of the goats eaten in the New York area are raised in Texas, North and
South Carolina, Oklahoma and Tennessee, but many more come from farms throughout
the Northeast.

And as the market for tobacco shrinks, some tobacco farmers have been encouraged
to convert their fields into grazing land for goats. ''It has been a cooperative
effort to wean farmers off the tobacco production,'' said Jean-Marie Luginbuhl,
associate professor of crop and animal science at North Carolina State
University. ''We can use goats instead of pesticides to remove noxious
vegetation from our land. They eat the best of everything that is nutritious for
us. And they will always be free range because they are climbers.''

Inna Kinney, president of the Economic and Community Development Institute of
Columbus, Ohio, has used goat to ease the transition for a large group of Somali
immigrants who have settled there by building a halal slaughterhouse.

''The leaders of the Somali community came to us and said that the mainstay of
their diet is goat and they can't get it,'' she said.

And while those long accustomed to goat have helped drive its appeal, newcomers
have their own ideas. ''My customers have come back and told me how to cook
it,'' Ms. Hushour said. ''They have given me recipes, which I share with my
customers.''

BRAISED GOAT WITH HERBS
Adapted from Fabio Trabocchi
Time: 3 1/2 hours plus overnight refrigeration

1 to 2 goat legs, about 7 pounds total

For the marinade:
Salt and pepper to taste
2 cups white wine
1 cup extra virgin olive oil
1/2 head of garlic, split from root to stem
3 large stems rosemary
1/2 cup fresh thyme leaves
2 bay leaves

For the braising liquid:
4 tablespoons butter
1 large onion, peeled and diced
Remaining half head of garlic, unpeeled
2 cups dry white wine
5 cups veal or beef stock
3 large stems rosemary (about  1/2 cup)
1/2 cup fresh thyme leaves.

 1. Lightly season legs with salt and pepper. Place legs with other ingredients
for marinade in a sealed plastic bag or bags and leave in refrigerator
overnight.

2. Remove from marinade and pat dry; discard marinade. Heat butter over medium
high heat in a Dutch oven or other casserole large enough to hold goat meat
until it starts to sizzle. Add goat legs and brown slowly over medium low heat,
basting frequently for about 10 minutes until golden brown on each side. Remove
legs and drain off all but a few tablespoons of butter.

3. Heat oven to 400 degrees. Put onion and garlic in Dutch oven. Saute over
medium heat until onions are soft and translucent, adding more butter if needed.
Pour in wine, bring to a boil and reduce by half, about 10 minutes. Add enough
stock to almost cover meat. Add rosemary and remaining thyme. Turn heat to high,
bring to a boil, then reduce to a low simmer. Add meat, cover and place in oven
for about 3 hours, basting occasionally.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

GOAT STEW WITH GINGER, CARDAMOM AND CORIANDER
Adapted from Rajesh Bhardwaj
Time: About 2 hours

4 tablespoons vegetable oil
6 green cardamom pods
2 black cardamom pods
6 cloves
1 stick cinnamon
2 bay leaves
8 to 10 black peppercorns
4 cups diced red onions, about 1 1/2 pounds
3 tablespoons chopped ginger
2 tablespoons chopped garlic
3 to 4 Thai or other small, hot peppers
2 1/2 pounds goat thighs or shoulder, cut in 5-inch pieces with the bones
3 teaspoons coriander powder
2 teaspoons cumin powder
1 teaspoon turmeric
1 1/2 teaspoons cayenne pepper
1 cup diced unpeeled fresh tomatoes
3/4 cup crushed canned tomatoes
2 tablespoons tomato paste
3/4 cup yogurt
2 teaspoons salt or to taste
1 teaspoon garam masala (available at Asian markets)
2 tablespoons chopped cilantro.

 1. Heat 4 tablespoons of oil in a stockpot. Add cardamom pods, cloves, cinnamon
stick, bay leaves and black peppercorns and saute over medium heat, stirring
constantly, until spices begin to crackle, about 5 minutes. Add onions, ginger,
garlic and peppers, continuing to stir.

2. Add goat meat, cooking until the meat is brown and onions are translucent,
about 20 minutes.

3. Add coriander, cumin, turmeric and cayenne and stir for about a minute. Add
tomatoes, a few tablespoons of water, and tomato paste and stir. Beat yogurt
well and then stir in with salt and  1/2 teaspoon of garam masala and continue
to stir for about 8 to 10 minutes or until fat separates. Add 2 1/4 cups more
water and bring to a boil. Cover and simmer slowly for about 30 minutes,
stirring occasionally, then add another cup of water. After 20 minutes add 2
cups more water and simmer, covered, for at least another hour until tender.

4. Place in a serving bowl and sprinkle with cilantro and remaining garam
masala.

Yield: about 6 servings.

A Short Guide For Goat Lovers

  These are among the New York area butchers, and one mail order shop, that have
goat regularly:

 ATLANTIC HALAL MEAT -- 232 Atlantic Avenue, Brooklyn, (718)625-2781.

AMERICAN HALAL MEAT -- 270 Raymond Boulevard, Newark, N.J., (973)817-8444.

SUNUGAAL MEAT MARKEt -- 119 West 116th Street, (212)864-1111.

AL-HABIB HALAL MEAT MARKET -- 25202 Hillside Avenue, Jamaica, Queens,
(718)343-7070.

ESPOSITO MEAT MARKET -- 500 Ninth Avenue, (212)279-3298.

BIANCARDI MEATS -- 2350 Arthur Avenue, Bronx, (718)733-4058.

COPELAND FAMILY FARM -- Mail-order sales at goatmeats.com, (530)436-2348.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO LONGER A NOVELTY -- Roast baby goat with artichokes at San
Domenico. (Photo by Peter Taylor for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 TENDERIZED -- Goat leg smoked over hay at the Ritz-Carlton in Tysons Corner,
Va. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh for The New York Times)(pg. F2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Venezuela: Move On Extradition Of Bombing Suspect

BYLINE: By Juan Forero (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 115 words


Venezuela announced that it had delivered to the United States a formal
extradition request for a Cuban exile wanted for involvement in an airplane
bombing. It wants the United States immediately to hand over the Cuban, Luis
Posada Carriles, a former C.I.A. operative who is in American custody, charged
with illegally entering the United States this year. Venezuela accuses him of
orchestrating the 1976 bombing of a Cuban airliner that killed 73 people,
including several Venezuelans. The case has embarrassed the Bush administration,
which the government of President Hugo Chavez has accused of being soft on
terrorists opposed to Washington's enemies, in this case Cuba.   Juan Forero
(NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' English

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 171 words



To the Editor:

Your article about the use of ''Runglish'' (''For the Thirsty Runglish Speaker:
Try an Ized Cyawfeh,'' news article, June 14) brought back fond memories of
growing up as a first-generation American in a Ukrainian household in 1950's
Brooklyn.

A similar hybrid language was used whereby English words were given a Ukrainian
inflection and used instead of their Ukrainian counterparts.

My parents called it ''kitchen Ukrainian'' and would go absolutely crazy if they
heard my brother or me use it. Their attitude was that we should either speak
proper Ukrainian or proper English, period.

It seems that every generation of immigrants gives rise to a similar hybrid
language. This allows them to use new words in a familiar context and eases the
difficult task of learning a new language and sometimes a new thought process in
expressing themselves.

I for one am glad that people still massage the English language to ease their
transition to a new language and culture.

Michael W. Savchak
Carmel, N.Y., June 14, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 17, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Questions, Bitterness and Exile For Queens Girl in Terror Case

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; William K. Rashbaum, in New York, and Souad
Mekhennet, in Frankfurt, contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3018 words

DATELINE: DHAKA, Bangladesh


Slumped at the edge of the bed she would have to share with four relatives that
night, the 16-year-old girl from Queens looked stunned.

On the hot, dusty road from the airport, she had watched rickshaws surge past
women sweeping the streets, bone-thin in their bright saris. Now, in a language
she barely understood, unfamiliar aunts and uncles lamented her fate: to be
forced to leave the United States, her home since kindergarten, because the
F.B.I. had mysteriously identified her as a potential suicide bomber.

''I feel like I'm on a different planet,'' the girl, Tashnuba Hayder, said. ''It
just hit me. How everything happened -- it's like, 'Oh, my God.' ''

The story of how it happened -- how Tashnuba, the pious, headstrong daughter of
Muslim immigrants living in a neighborhood of tidy lawns and American flags, was
labeled an imminent threat to national security -- is still shrouded in
government secrecy. After nearly seven weeks in detention, she was released in
May on the condition that she leave the country immediately. Only immigration
charges were brought against her and another 16-year-old New York girl, who was
detained and released. Federal officials will not discuss the matter.

But as the first terror investigation in the United States known to involve
minors, the case reveals how deeply concerned the government is that a teenager
might become a terrorist, and the lengths to which federal agents will go if
they get even a whiff of that possibility. And it has drawn widespread
attention, stoking the debate over the right balance between government
vigilance and the protection of individual freedoms.

It is not known what prompted the authorities to investigate Tashnuba, who says
the accusations are false. But in a series of interviews -- her first -- she
said the government had apparently discovered her visits to an Internet chat
room where she took notes on sermons by a charismatic Islamic cleric in London,
a sheik who has long been accused of encouraging suicide bombings.

An F.B.I. agent, posing as a youth counselor, first confronted Tashnuba in her
bedroom, going through her school papers and questioning everything from her
views on jihad to her posterless walls, she said. Sent to a center for
delinquents in Pennsylvania, Tashnuba said she was interrogated without a lawyer
or parent present, about her beliefs and those of her friends, mainly American
girls she had met at city mosques.

As suicide bombings mount overseas, with teenage girls among the perpetrators,
there is no doubt that the government's intelligence efforts are spurred by
legitimate fears. The agent leading this investigation was a Muslim woman born
in Britain who has voiced strong concern about radical clerics' influence on
young immigrants there. And in Tashnuba, who wore a veil and talks of an ideal
Islamic state, she met unsettling opinions and teenage defiance.

But Tashnuba says that she opposes suicide bombing, that her interest in the
cleric was casual, and that the government treated her like a criminal simply
for exercising the freedoms of speech and religion that America had taught her.

As she tells it, F.B.I. agents tried to twist mundane details of her life to fit
the profile of a terrorist recruit, and when they could not make a case, covered
their tracks by getting her out of the country. In fact, the court order of
''voluntary departure'' that let her leave requires a finding that the person is
not deportable for endangering national security.

Tashnuba said she believed she was singled out precisely because she is a
noncitizen -- allowing investigators to invoke immigration law, bypassing the
familiar limits of criminal and juvenile proceedings.

''That gave them the green light to get me out of my family,'' Tashnuba said
during her long journey with her mother and siblings to this teeming city where
she was born.

This account is, in large part, her version of events. Some of it is supported
by documents and other interviews, but it cannot all be corroborated because a
court has sealed the case record at the F.B.I.'s request and barred participants
from disclosing government information. The government has declined repeated
requests to present its side.

'Alarm Bells' for F.B.I.

 Two former F.B.I. agents, presented with the known details of the case,
declined to discuss it specifically, but spoke of the pressures and practices
that shape such investigations today.

Pasquale J. D'Amuro, who headed the New York F.B.I. office until April, said
that since 9/11, agents have had to err on the side of suspicion. More potential
threats are being reported, he said, and every one must be thoroughly
investigated through whatever avenues are legally available, including enlisting
immigration authorities as soon as a noncitizen is under scrutiny.

''The alarm bells are going off,'' said Mr. D'Amuro, now the chief executive of
Giuliani Security and Safety, a consulting company. ''And we have each and every
time to run those threats to the ground, whether it ends up to be a bogus threat
or proceeds to some type of prosecutorial action.''

Some cases are never resolved, he added. Even when suspicions prove unfounded,
he said, any visa violations are already in the hands of immigration
authorities, who have to bring them ''to some type of closure.''

But Mike German, who left the bureau a year ago after a long career chasing
homegrown terror suspects, said that the agency's new emphasis on collecting
intelligence rather than criminal evidence has opened the door to more
investigations that go ''in the wrong direction.''

''If all these chat rooms are being monitored, and we're running down all these
people because of what they're saying in chat rooms, then these are resources
we're not using on real threats,'' said Mr. German, who has publicly complained
that F.B.I. management problems impeded terror investigations after 9/11.

The stress on intelligence increases the agency's demands for secrecy, to
protect its sources. And secrecy, he said, leads to abuses of power.

''Perhaps the government has some incredibly incriminating piece of information
and saved us from a terrible act of violence; it would make everybody feel
better to know it,'' he said. ''Conversely, if they did something wrong, the
public needs to know that.''

From the beginning, the government framed this case as purely an immigration
matter. When a dozen federal agents plucked the girl from her home in a dawn
raid on March 24, they cited only the expiration of her mother's immigration
papers, telling the family that Tashnuba would probably be returned the next
day.

Instead, after two weeks of frantic inquiries by her parents, The New York Times
learned that Tashnuba was one of two girls being held, officially on their
parents' immigration violations, but actually for questioning by F.B.I.'s Joint
Terrorism Task Force.

According to a government document provided to The Times by a federal official,
the F.B.I. asserted that the girls presented ''an imminent threat to the
security of the United States based upon evidence that they plan to be suicide
bombers.'' The document cited no evidence. And in background interviews, federal
officials were quick to play down the case as soon as reporters called,
characterizing the investigation as a pre-emptive move against potential
candidates for recruitment, not the disruption of a plot.

By then agents had seized Tashnuba's diary, schoolwork and phone book -- and the
computer she had repeatedly tuned to sermons broadcast daily by Sheik Omar Bakri
Muhammed. From her account of the agents' questions, and comments by a
government official who reviewed a report about the F.B.I.'s grounds for
suspicion, it appears that Tashnuba's interest in the speeches became the lens
that colored everything else about her life.

Veering between ''nice and awful,'' she said, up to three agents at a time
pressed her about possible terrorist ties among her friends, and what they saw
as suspicious tendencies in her schoolwork, like class notes about suicide. She
said they even criticized the austere decor of the bedroom she shared with her
10-year-old sister.

''The F.B.I. tried to say I didn't have a life -- like, I wasn't the typical
teenager,'' Tashnuba said bitterly, fingering her long Muslim dress. ''They
thought I was anti-American because I didn't want to compromise, but in my
high-school ethics class we had Communists, Democrats, Republicans, Gothics --
all types. In all our classes, we were told, 'You speak up, you give your
opinion, and you defend it.' ''

The lesson backfired, she said, when she found herself stubbornly debating the
Koran's definitions of jihad with the lead F.B.I. agent: Foria Younis, a Muslim
immigrant of a much more secular stripe.

''It got personal,'' Tashnuba said.

Behind the Veil

 She is a made-in-Queens mix of devotion and defiance, this slim, dark-eyed
adolescent who arrived in Astoria with her family at age 5. In her round
schoolgirl handwriting, she has compiled lists of favorite prayers and pious
resolutions, like ''practice lowering gaze to fullest'' and ''be xtra nice to
parents.'' But when she recalls how F.B.I. agents questioned her religious
lifestyle, her voice drips typical teenage scorn: ''Like, I'm supposed to live
for you guys?''

From childhood, Tashnuba embraced religion with a kind of rebellion. By 10 she
was praying five times a day -- and reproaching her more secular father, a
salesman of cheap watches. At 12, Tashnuba even explored Christianity. But at
14, she adopted a full Islamic veil.

In part, she was emulating her closest friend, Shahela, an American citizen who,
in an interview, described veiling as a way to oppose ''the degrading treatment
of women's bodies as commodities'' and ''to hold on to my faith after 9/11.'' It
also provided Tashnuba a refuge from her parents' marital rifts and fragile
reconciliations. Soon, the two friends were conducting religious classes for
other girls at city mosques.

''This is what gives me an identity,'' Tashnuba said of her religion.

It also estranged her from the raunchy banter at her Manhattan high school. And
when Shahela opted for accelerated home schooling, Tashnuba wanted to do
likewise. Her parents resisted, and rejected her alternate escape plan: an
arranged marriage to an American Muslim man from Michigan named Latif, whom
Tashnuba had met only fleetingly. He was not a Bangladeshi, but a blue-eyed,
21-year-old salesman of Italian, Brazilian and German descent.

What she calls ''a rough time in my life'' reached a crisis last October. The
family had just moved to Queens Village, leaving her friends behind. When Latif
suggested an elopement to Michigan, Tashnuba impulsively agreed. A few hours
from New York, they heard that her father had gone to the police, and quickly
drove back. The police report would come back to haunt Tashnuba.

For now, her parents agreed to home schooling, through a correspondence course.
But she still had time for PalTalk, a popular Web service where she found Sheik
Omar's nightly London broadcasts carried live at 2 p.m.

''It was a casual thing,'' she said. ''I would have it on for a few minutes,
then I would be going to CVS for my mom, whatever.''

Parts of the broadcasts have long alarmed counterterrorism investigators, who
say the Syrian-born Sheik Omar urges young Muslim men worldwide to support the
Iraq insurgency on the front line of ''the global jihad,'' and praises the 9/11
hijackers and suicide bombings. In a chilling exchange reported by The Times of
London in January, a female listener asked whether ''sisters are allowed to do
suicide bombings if the intentions are correct.'' The newspaper reported that
the sheik replied: ''This is no problem; there is no restriction.''

But in a telephone interview, the sheik denied recruiting anyone. ''Nobody said
to women that they should become a suicide bomber,'' he said.

Tashnuba said the topic never came up while she listened. What she recalled was
talk of a utopian Islamic state that would follow God's will, not human desires.
''You don't pay for water in an Islamic state, you don't pay for transport,''
she said. ''There are certain rights that can't be taken away.''

The Student and the Agent

 At 9, an age when Tashnuba was turning to prayer, Foria Younis was beating boys
at soccer in a Pakistani neighborhood in east London. Now 37, this former
prosecutor is a 5-foot-2, ''gun-toting, door-kicking member of the F.B.I.'s
counterterrorist squad'' who has hunted terrorists on three continents,
according to a long profile last year in The Daily Telegraph of London.

Though Ms. Younis would not agree to an interview for this article, she did not
quarrel with The Telegraph's depiction.

But on March 4, when she knocked at the Hayder family's door, Ms. Younis and her
partner did not reveal that they were F.B.I. agents, said Tashnuba's mother,
Ishrat Jahan Hayder. They claimed to be from a youth center, following up on the
police report filed five months earlier when the girl tried to elope. Mrs.
Hayder readily sent the woman upstairs to her daughter's bedroom. ''I trusted
her,'' she said.

From the moment she walked in, as Tashnuba tells it, Ms. Younis started paging
through her papers. ''She was like, 'Can I look at this?' Not waiting for an
answer.''

What mainly drew the agent's eye, the girl said, were papers from an extra-help
class for home-schooled girls that Tashnuba had joined to prepare for exams. On
one page was a diagram highlighting the word ''suicide'' -- her notes on a class
discussion about why religions oppose it, she said.

Soon, she said, Ms. Younis was dropping comments like ''So, I see you're
interested in suicide,'' and ''So, you like staying all by yourself in your
room. Are you a loner?''

Tashnuba, who had many friends, was immediately nervous and defensive. ''No, I'm
just in my room,'' she said she protested. ''I saw where they were going.''

Three weeks later -- two days after Ms. Younis wrote a secret declaration about
Tashnuba, court documents show -- immigration agents raided the house. As an
immigration matter, that was highly unusual; there was no active proceeding
against her mother or father, whose separate, long-pending applications for
political asylum had lapsed without action in the late 1990's.

But Tashnuba said the agents told her, ''Your mom just admitted you're not here
legally and we have to take you, or else take everybody.'' At immigration
headquarters in Manhattan, the F.B.I. was waiting, along with the other girl,
Adama Bah, a native of Guinea whom Tashnuba said she knew slightly from a
Manhattan mosque. Ms. Bah was of less interest to the authorities than Tashnuba,
according to the government official who reviewed F.B.I. reports.

At day's end, the girls were driven to a maximum-security juvenile detention
center in rural Berks County, Pa. Suddenly they were among delinquent girls
accused of drug crimes and assaults. Tashnuba was required to wear a sweat suit,
march at attention and submit to strip-searches, she said. And the questioning
began in earnest.

''They tried to twist my mind,'' Tashnuba said. ''They had their little tactics
-- start with nice questions, try to get more severe. In the end, when I did cry
they were, like, mocking me.''

A government psychiatrist concluded that she was neither suicidal nor homicidal,
and recommended her release. But the agents, Tashnuba said, kept ''trying to
link me to the psychological state.'' They zeroed in on the single artificial
rose in her bedroom (her little sister's); a psychology course (required by her
correspondence program), and an essay she wrote about the Department of Homeland
Security (assigned as a writing evaluation by her tutor).

The tutor, Asmaa Samad, recalled the essay as innocuous: ''It said nothing
derogative, nothing unpatriotic.'' Tashnuba said agents seized on one part. ''I
wrote, 'I feel like Muslims are being targeted, they're being outcasted more.'''

But instead of backing away from opinions that the agents seemed to find
alarming, Tashnuba said she dug in her heels, especially on her belief in jihad.
''If Islam is threatened, you have a right to fight back,'' Tashnuba declared,
citing Koran verses.

The questioning went on, she said, from March 24 to April 7 -- the day the first
article about the case appeared.

As the news spread, an advocacy group arranged a lawyer for her. The Bangladeshi
general consul in New York pressed the government for an explanation, and
Homeland Security replied: The sole reason Tashnuba was being held was her
''unlawful presence'' in the United States.

The other girl was allowed to return to her East Harlem high school in early
May, under strict conditions including an order not to discuss the case. But for
Tashnuba, there was no prospect of release, her lawyer, Troy Mattes, said he was
told.

Broke and distraught, Tashnuba's mother asked to take ''voluntary departure''
with her daughter, rather than fight. The government agreed, and an immigration
judge issued the necessary order.

Arriving in Dhaka on May 12, Tashnuba walked into her new life and burst into
tears. ''I want to go back,'' she cried.

Her father and 14-year-old brother had stayed in hiding in New York, hoping to
avoid deportation while the boy finished school. With no money for a home,
Tashnuba and her mother, baby brother and little sister, Tamana, were to share
an aunt's bed at her grandmother's apartment, now occupied by nine people.

For Tashnuba and Tamana, an American citizen who speaks only English, more
education may be unaffordable, her mother said. Even Tashnuba's piety was
challenged. Veiling is taboo among her relatives, and few Dhaka mosques allow
women.

At one point in the journey, she had wished she had never gone to America,
raging, ''I see now you have no privacy, no liberty.'' But now she longed for
even one more day in New York, ''to say goodbye.''

Fighting tears, she fell silent, staring at the shelf of souvenirs her family
had sent back over the years: a big apple, a snow globe of the twin towers, a
Statue of Liberty.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The street in the Gulshan district of Dhaka, Bangladesh, where
the Hayder sisters now live in their grandmother's apartment. (Photo by Zakir
Hossain for The New York Times)
Tamana Hayder, top, age 10, in the bedroom she shared with her sister, Tashnuba,
16, who was in federal detention. Tashnuba's prayer rug is at right. Tashnuba
and her mother refused to be photographed. Above, the Hayder family house,
second from right, on 216th Street in Queens Village. The sisters, their mother
and a baby brother are back in Bangladesh. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New
York Times)
 (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Tennessee: Report Faults Nuclear Security

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 171 words


Sixteen foreign-born construction workers with fake immigration documents were
able to enter a nuclear weapons plant in East Tennessee because of lax security
controls, a federal report said. Controls at the Y-12 weapons plant at Oak
Ridge, which makes parts for nuclear warheads and is the country's principal
storehouse for weapons-grade uranium, have since been tightened and there is no
evidence the workers had access to important documents, said the National
Nuclear Security Administration, which oversees nuclear weapons facilities for
the Department of Energy. The department's inspector general's office said in
the report, however, that its field agents found ''official use only'' documents
''lying unprotected in a construction trailer which was accessed by the foreign
construction workers'' at the plant. The report said the workers had fake green
cards that certified them to work in the United States. Their cases were turned
over to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency for deportation
proceedings.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 22, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Apple Pie, Fourth of July And Pad Thai

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words


WHEN Nongkran Daks moved from Thailand to Washington 40 years ago, she found no
lemon grass, no galanga root, no kaffir lime leaves. Desperate to taste the
flavors of home, she was thrilled when she spied chili peppers and mint growing
in the garden of the Thai Embassy, and she helped herself to both.

''I was really ashamed,'' she said with a laugh in a recent conversation, but
she admitted that the mint grew nicely on her little plot.

Her story of longing for comfort foods left behind has been repeated countless
times as the first wave of immigrants from any country adjusts to what America
offers.

In the 70's, the foods that Ms. Daks craved became readily available in cities
like Washington, as thousands of refugees from Southeast Asia arrived and
planted ingredients from their homeland. Today, lemon grass is almost an
American staple.

Fittingly, on July 4, Ms. Daks, who owns Thai Basil restaurant in Chantilly,
Va., will demonstrate her country's most famous dish, pad Thai, at the 39th
annual Smithsonian Folklife Festival, a 10-day event starting tomorrow on the
National Mall in Washington.

For the first time, the festival will devote an entire program to food culture,
celebrating the revolution in cooking and farming that has taken place in the
United States over the last 40 years. The tradition and innovation of American
cuisine will be explored through the cooking of recent immigrants, as Ms. Daks
once was; the sustainable agriculture movement; and the role chefs and cooks
play.

''The intersection is where the term food revolution comes from,'' said Stephen
Kidd, a curator of the program. ''Things people think of as new have a strong
connection to the culture of the past,'' like Alice Waters's Edible Schoolyard.
The project, which she started in Berkeley, Calif., home to her restaurant, Chez
Panisse, teaches children about health and values through growing, harvesting
and cooking from a garden. The folklife festival will have classes for children.

A Navajo woman who raises corn for traditional tribal uses and sells it at
farmers' markets, and a Rhode Island man who has revived the farming of flint
corn will reflect the increasing interest in sustainable agriculture. And as a
part of today's global food exchange, a Tanzanian coffee cooperative and
Bolivian cacao growers will discuss their work.

The festival has always been grounded in grass-roots tradition, Mr. Kidd said.
Coming out of the civil rights movement, S. Dillon Ripley, the secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution from 1964 to 1984, wanted to open its museums to more
communities, to be more inclusive. This year, over the 10 days, ''a million
people, reflecting the diversity of the country, will come to this free event,''
Mr. Kidd said. ''It is an opportunity to meet people whom they would never meet
otherwise.''

Cooking demonstrations will be held at three locations and feature famous chefs
like Patrick O'Connell of the Inn at Little Washington in Washington, Va., and
Dan Barber of Blue Hill at Stone Barns in Pocantico Hills, N.Y., as well as
barbecues and lamb roasts, church suppers and an Argentine grill. A chili
roaster, a mushroom forager, a composter and cheesemakers will talk about their
work.

The immigrants participating in the festival, from Southeast Asia, Korea, Iran
and many Spanish-speaking countries, will show how they are having the same
impact on American cooking as their predecessors from Italy, Germany and France.
Shiitake mushrooms, tahini and plantains have taken their place in supermarkets
across the country, alongside mozzarella and sauerkraut, pastrami and Dijon
mustard.

The abundance of these ingredients is light-years from Diana My Tran's
experience when she arrived in Carlisle, Pa., from Vietnam in 1975. ''I was so
homesick,'' she said. ''I couldn't eat American food, so I tried to adapt
Vietnamese tastes to what I could find in an American supermarket.''

Then she went to visit her brother in Washington and she couldn't believe her
eyes. ''I saw a big community of Vietnamese,'' she said. ''I saw a Vietnamese
market, so I said O.K., we got to move, and we did.''

Michael Yang, a Hmong who came to the United States with his family in 1980,
knows the immigrant story firsthand. A farmer and an extension agent for the
University of California, Mr. Yang works with small farmers, most of them
immigrants, including Southeast Asians, Chinese and Russians. He said he teaches
them how to grow food the modern American way: how to use technology, how to use
pesticides safely, even how to farm organically. ''You can't grow food here the
way you grow it at home,'' he said. ''There is no slash and burn,'' a reference
to the custom of burning fields after harvest.

The pollination has gone both ways. One significant and permanent change among
immigrant cooks is a reduction in the amount of fat used in cooking. The title
of Najmieh Batmanglij's cookbook, ''Persian Cooking for a Healthy Kitchen,''
says it all. Mrs. Batmanglij, who emigrated from Iran, reduced the fat in her
Persian recipes because, she said, ''Americans want simple and less fat and less
fat and all things cooked with olive oil, which is typical of the Caspian area
anyway.''

Ms. Tran, who will be showing festivalgoers how to make spring rolls, has a
health-conscious cookbook, too, titled ''The Asian Diet.''

Frank Morales, chef at Zola in Washington, whose grandparents were the first in
his family to move to the mainland from Puerto Rico, said that some of his
native dishes were not quite authentic because lard had been replaced by other
fats. Rice with pigeon peas, for example, is made with pork loin here instead of
fatback. Fatback may be gone, but plantains have become more popular. When Mr.
Morales was a boy, his mother often had to use potatoes instead. ''Today
plantains are everywhere, whether it's little chips on top of a fillet or a mash
with lots of garlic with cod.''

At the folklife festival, he will be making a plantain escabeche and mojo sauce
to be served with grilled fish or pork.

Still, there is work to be done.

''I have difficulty recreating some of the flavors because the cilantro from
Puerto Rico tastes different,'' Mr. Morales said. ''I am working with farmers to
grow just the right peppers and the cilantro.''

Americans, whose increasing culinary sophistication will be highlighted at the
festival, are always eager to try something new. And they, doubtless, would
notice the difference.

''American cooking has roamed so far and wide,'' said Mrs. Batmanglij, who will
be demonstrating yogurt soup with rose petals. ''It has become like a modern
Silk Road, where wonderful ingredients from all over the world are available to
everyone.''

Yogurt and Cucumber Soup
Adapted from Najmieh Batmanglij
Time: 30 minutes

1 long seedless cucumber or 4 pickling cucumbers, peeled and diced
3 cups plain whole or low-fat yogurt
1/4 cup chopped scallions
2 tablespoons chopped fresh mint
2 tablespoons chopped fresh dill
2 tablespoons chopped fresh oregano
1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme
2 tablespoons chopped fresh tarragon
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
1/4 cup shelled walnuts, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup raisins, washed and drained
Salt to taste
Freshly ground black pepper to taste
3 tablespoons dried rose petals (available at Middle Eastern stores), separated
from bud, plus more for garnish
1 tablespoon fresh mint or dried mint flakes
1 pita bread, toasted and cut into half-inch squares (optional).

Thai Steak with Coriander Pesto
Adapted from Nongkran Daks
Time 20 minutes, plus marinating

5 coriander roots
4 cloves garlic
2 teaspoons whole peppercorns
4 teaspoons neutral oil
2 tablespoons fish sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 pounds flank steak, scored on both sides in diamond pattern on the diagonal.

1. Wash coriander roots thoroughly. Combine in blender with garlic, peppercorns
and oil, and process to make a thin paste. Add fish sauce and soy sauce.
2. Spoon into bowl large enough to hold the steak and rub paste on both sides of
the meat. Refrigerate, covered, and allow to marinate for at least four hours or
overnight.
3. Cook on hot grill three to four minutes on each side for medium rare; or heat
pan over medium-high heat on stove until hot, pour in a tablespoon of oil, and
brown meat three to four minutes on each side for medium rare. Slice thinly on
the diagonal. Serve immediately or at room temperature.
Yield:6 to 8 servings.

1. Combine cucumber, yogurt, scallions, mint, dill, oregano, thyme, tarragon,
garlic, walnuts, raisins, salt and pepper in a serving bowl. Mix thoroughly with
1 cup water and adjust seasoning to taste.
2. Refrigerate several hours or overnight. A half-hour before serving, stir in
rose petals.
3. Just before serving, add a few ice cubes. Pour soup into a tureen or
individual serving bowls. Garnish with additional rose petals, dried mint and
pita bread croutons.
Yield:4 servings.

Mojito Isleno
Adapted from Frank Morales
Time: 15 minutes

1/2 cup olive oil
2 medium-large green bell peppers, seeded, trimmed and chopped
2 medium onions, chopped
8 teaspoons crushed garlic
1 medium bunch cilantro, washed and chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
2 cups canned tomato sauce
Tabasco sauce, optional
1/2 cup chopped pimento-stuffed green olives.

1. Heat pan over medium heat, pour in oil and saute bell pepper and onion until
they begin to soften.
2. Add garlic and cilantro, salt and pepper. Cook five minutes over low heat.
3. Add tomato sauce and simmer for about 10 minutes.
4. Add hot sauce, if desired.
5. Before removing from heat, add olives. Cool and refrigerate. Use as topping
for the grilled fish or pork.
Yield:8 servings.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: NOT AVAILABLE IN CARTONS -- Persian yogurt soup will be
prepared at the Smithsonian Folklife Festival in Washington. (Photo by Andrew
Scrivani for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
NOT ONLY IN AMERICA -- Far left, steak grilled Thai style, and, above left,
Nongkran Daks preparing pad Thai, a dish she would have been hard-pressed to
make when she first came to the United States 40 years ago
right, a Persian yogurt soup with rose petals. (Photos by Left, Linda Spillers
for The New York Times
right, Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Businesswoman Known as Sister Ping Is Found Guilty on Federal Conspiracy Charges

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 681 words


A businesswoman was convicted yesterday on federal conspiracy charges that
included her role as a financier of the Golden Venture tramp steamer, which ran
aground off Queens in 1993 with nearly 300 Chinese immigrants aboard -- 10 of
whom died trying to swim to shore.

The businesswoman, Cheng Chui Ping, who is known in Chinatown as Sister Ping,
was also found guilty on charges of money laundering and trafficking in ransom
proceeds.

The jury in Federal District Court in Manhattan acquitted her on a separate
money laundering charge and failed to return a verdict on a charge of hostage
taking. Judge Michael B. Mukasey ordered the jury to return this afternoon to
continue deliberating on the unresolved charge. Ms. Cheng, 56, showed no emotion
as the verdict was read aloud. She sat with her back stiff and scarcely moved.

She faces a maximum of 35 years in prison in the case, which opened for trial on
May 23.

The jury deliberated five full days before returning its partial verdict with a
deadlock note.

The prosecution's case was built on wiretap evidence and testimony from
convicted Chinese smugglers and a brutal band of outlaws based in Chinatown
called the Fuk Ching gang. The defense sought at trial to discredit the
government witnesses by describing them, accurately, as murderers, extortionists
and the like.

Ms. Cheng's lead lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, said he was disappointed with the
verdict. While Mr. Hochheiser admitted many times in the trial that his client
ran an illegal bank, he always tried to distance her from the Golden Venture's
disastrous voyage.

The ship was sent to Mombasa, Kenya, in 1993 to pick up nearly 300 Chinese
immigrants who had been stranded when there were problems with another vessel.
The Golden Venture then sailed for America, where it ran aground in the shallows
off the Rockaways. The Fuk Ching gang was supposed to help unload the vessel.
But just as the ship approached its New York destination, two of its members
were killed in a fight on shore, one witness testified, leaving the gang in
disarray.

The immigrants on board the Golden Venture were left to fend for themselves. In
addition to those who died trying to swim to shore, dozens suffered hypothermia
and injuries leaping from the boat into the frigid Atlantic Ocean.

Evidence in the trial showed that at the height of her power, Ms. Cheng owned
restaurants, a clothing store and real estate in Chinatown, as well as
apartments in Hong Kong and a farm in South Africa. But her main business,
prosecutors said, was always an illicit multimillion-dollar banking network that
stretched to the Far East from New York.

Ms. Cheng, a successful businesswoman even at the height of China's Cultural
Revolution, recognized a huge demand for smuggling Chinese immigrants to the
United States, the prosecution said. Government lawyers and the first two trial
witnesses said that Ms. Cheng became a snakehead, or immigrant smuggler, mainly
as an investor. She often charged as much as $40,000 per passenger for a trip to
New York from Asia.

Instead of sending immigrants one or two at a time by airplane with fake travel
documents, the prosecution said, Ms. Cheng decided that more money could be made
by shipping human cargo by boat. She moved from China and set up a headquarters
in a storefront at 47 East Broadway in Chinatown, the prosecutors said.

At times, she loaned money to her customers before the trip. On other occasions,
prosecutors said, she used the Fuk Ching members as ''a gang of armed thugs'' to
hold the immigrants in warehouses in New York until their relatives paid her
fees.

Although Ms. Cheng fled the United States in 1994, the government said she
continued to finance immigrant ships. She did not surface again until she was
arrested by the authorities in Hong Kong in April 2000, carrying a fake passport
from Belize in the name of Lily Zheng and $64,000 in American and Hong Kong
currency.

One of her later business ventures went awry in 1998, the government said, when
a ship capsized in bad weather off the coast of Guatemala and 14 people drowned.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Testimony from smugglers helped convict Cheng Chui Ping. (Photo
by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Girl Detained

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 90 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Questions, Bitterness and Exile for Queens Girl in Terror Case'' (front
page, June 17), about Tashnuba Hayder, a Muslim immigrant, who after nearly
seven weeks in detention, was released on the condition that she leave the
United States immediately and who is now in Bangladesh:

So now the Bush administration has taken to detaining 16-year-old girls,
accusing them of who knows what, deporting them and then refusing to discuss the
case.

What is happening to this country?

Vikram Jaswal
Charlottesville, Va., June 17, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 26, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Subject to Research

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-26-05: THE
ETHICIST; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 584 words


I have M.S., for which there is at present no cure. My doctor has invited me to
participate in studies of existing and potential treatments. I admire those who
volunteer for such research, but I am concerned about the potential long-term
health consequences. Is it ethical to benefit from medicines developed through
research studies but not participate in them myself?   Roberta Osborne, Toronto

Volunteering to be a subject for medical research is something we must all
admire but may not compel. Such acts of self-sacrifice are termed
supererogatory. This is particularly so with actions that involve the sanctity
of the body, something most ethical systems respect. Hence we do not require
anyone to donate an organ, but we esteem those who do.

This is not to say that you have no reciprocal obligations to the health-care
system that you benefit from. But there is no shortage of ways to respond to a
community (and not just the health-care community) that nurtures you. And there
are honorable ways to do so without endangering your health. This obligation
extends beyond those whose interest in medical research is as direct as yours.
It would be parasitical for any of us to benefit from a community without
contributing to its well-being. But the particular means of giving back are left
up to us.

Look at it this way: you may walk over the Brooklyn Bridge without shame even
though workers suffered and died in its construction while you did not pitch in
(what with your not being from around here or being born at the time).

UPDATE: Osborne decided not to take part in a project in which some participants
receive a placebo. She has, however, volunteered to be a research subject for a
study of the optimum dosage levels of two different M.S. medications.

A friend was engaged to a man who ostensibly came here on a ''student'' visa but
never enrolled in an academic program. That visa had expired. He was reluctant
to discuss any of this with her. I did not want to jeopardize my friendship with
the bride-to-be by asking her to reconsider the engagement. Instead, I was
thinking about reporting her fiance to Immigration with the idea that his
deportation would have caused the wedding to be canceled. Would that have been
ethical?   Anonymous, Washington

That is how you would treat a friend? Secretly arrange to have her fiance
deported? What do you do to your enemies?

If you have genuine reason to believe that a scoundrel is exploiting a friend's
affections to obtain legal residence in the United States, then talk to her. It
takes real tact to raise such a subject, but concern for a friend's happiness
urges such a step. You might find that she is O.K. with her fiance's using her
in this way (if in fact he is). People marry for all sorts of reasons; love is
hardly the only one. Another alternative: put the fiance in touch with a good
immigration lawyer, someone who could advise him about his (admittedly limited)
options.

Someone overstaying a visa is no proof of treacherous intent. There are enormous
numbers of people in the U.S. whose immigration status would not stand up to
I.N.S. scrutiny, and few are cads. Indeed, many of us are the descendants of
those who arrived here illegally. What's more, the quotation marks you've placed
around ''student'' suggest not merely that you didn't think he had one but that
you had no reliable idea of his circumstances. That you contemplated an action
with such dire consequences based on so little evidence is, to say the least,
rash.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 29, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing: New York  Manhattan: Mistrial In Golden Venture Case

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 106 words


A judge declared a mistrial yesterday after jurors failed to reach a verdict on
a hostage-taking charge against a woman already convicted for her role in a
treacherous voyage in 1993 that ended in the deaths of 10 Chinese immigrants.

The jurors deliberated in federal court for about two weeks before telling Judge
Michael B. Mukasey they were deadlocked on the remaining count against Cheng
Chui Ping. Last week, the jury convicted Ms. Cheng, 56, on conspiracy, money
laundering and other charges. She was acquitted on a second count of money
laundering. Ms. Cheng still faces up to 35 years on the other convictions,
prosecutors said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brazilians Streaming Into U.S. Through Mexican Border

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1364 words

DATELINE: BRAUNAS, Brazil


For years, Jaider de Andrade, a 35-year-old farm worker, talked about going to
the United States to look for work, and early in March he finally agreed to a
trafficker's offer to fly him to Mexico and have him guided across the border
there. By month's end, though, he was back home here again, in a coffin.

''His dream had always been for us to have a little house of our own, but he
never could make enough here to get ahead,'' his widow, Nilce Aparecida Moreira
da Silva, said at the couple's homestead. ''He knew there was some risk, but he
wasn't nervous, because he saw that so many other people from around here had
gone and done well in the United States.''

Encouraged by highly organized groups of smugglers offering relatively cheap
packages, Brazilians recently have been migrating in record numbers to the
United States.

With direct entry to the United States tougher than in the past, more often than
not their route of choice is through Mexico, which in recent years has stopped
requiring entry visas of Brazilians.

During just two days in late April, Border Patrol agents in south Texas detained
232 Brazilians who had entered the United States illegally. All told, more than
12,000 Brazilians have been apprehended trying to cross the United
States-Mexican border this year, exceeding the number detained in all of 2004
and pushing Brazilians to the top of the category known as ''other than
Mexicans.''

Mexico, facing growing complaints from Washington, is now contemplating
restoring visa formalities for Brazilians. That in turn has led to a fever among
potential migrants here in the vast heartland of south-central Brazil to obtain
a passport and head for Mexico before the door there starts swinging shut.

At the Federal Police office in Governador Valadares, the main city in this
fertile region of rolling hills, the line of people seeking passports each day
stretches around the block.

Those waiting one afternoon did not want to talk with a reporter about their
travel plans, but the Federal Police delegate for the region, Rui Antonio da
Silva, estimated that 90 percent were headed for the United States via the
Mexican route. ''We believe that just in this region there are about 30 gangs
that offer this service to people,'' he said. ''It's a very lucrative business,
and a lot of people are involved.''

Mr. da Silva said that last year his office issued an average of about 45
passports a day. Since January the number has jumped to a daily average of 140.
A few minutes later, an assistant came into his office. ''The numbers just don't
stop growing,'' she said. ''We hit a new record today, more than 200
passports.''

American authorities say that many of the trafficking gangs use travel agencies
as fronts. Governador Valadares, a pleasant city of 250,000 in the sprawling
inland state of Minas Gerais, which is the source of the majority of the
Brazilians apprehended on the Mexican border, now has more than 100 such firms,
up from 40 just a couple of years ago.

People here who have been approached by trafficking rings said that the going
rate at the moment for door-to-door transport to Boston, the preferred
destination of illegal Brazilian immigrants, is about $10,500. That is more than
two years' income for the average Brazilian, but effectively 30 percent less
than a year ago, because the American dollar is weaker now.

Brazilian officials and residents of this region said that unlike smuggling
situations in many places, migrants do not pay in advance and do not pay at all
if they fail to reach the United States, which greatly reduces the financial
risk to potential migrants.

Mr. de Andrade's widow said her husband had offered a small parcel of land he
owned as collateral. After he died, in an automobile accident in northern
Mexico, the smuggler returned the land.

The accelerating outflow of people has come as a surprise to Brazilians and a
blow to their self-image. This nation of 180 million has, after all,
traditionally attracted millions of immigrants from Europe and Asia and prides
itself on its social mobility.

''Just look at who our president is,'' Teresa Sales, the author of ''Brazilians
Far From Home'' and a professor of sociology at the University of Campinas,
said, referring to Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, a former lathe operator. ''In the
past, even when things were going badly no one would have imagined leaving the
country, because of the expectation of rising socially.''

Not only that, but Brazil's economy has been doing well recently. Furthermore,
many of those leaving are not poor peasants, but young people more educated than
the general population, including architects, engineers and other professionals.

''What we have to accept that this flow has to do with lack of opportunity, not
with poverty or unemployment,'' said Ana Cristina Braga Martes, a specialist in
immigration issues at the Getulio Vargas Foundation, a leading research
institution. ''It's mainly the lower middle class from prosperous states, not
the poor, who are going, and it's because they can't earn a fair wage here and
have bought into the idea of the American dream.''

One sure sign that ''making America'' has entered the popular imagination is
that in March, Brazil's largest television network began broadcasting a soap
opera called ''America,'' which follows a young woman's efforts to get to the
United States through Mexico and to adjust to life in Florida.

Experts disagree about whether it is encouraging Brazilians to head north, but
more than 40 million people are watching nightly.

In an effort to discourage the flow, Brazilian priests in Massachusetts have
recently published a letter on the Internet alerting illegal immigrants to the
dangers they may confront on their way to the United States.

''When they don't die, the migrants are subjected to violence or raped, and
experience humiliating situations like sleeping in cemeteries, walking for miles
and miles through the desert or drinking water from sewers,'' their document
warns.

Since the 1960's, Governador Valadares has sent a stream of immigrants to Boston
and nearby cities, but the stream has been growing larger. Mayor Jose Bonifacio
Mourao estimates that 40,000 people from his city have emigrated to the United
States. ''Almost every family, including mine, has relatives in the United
States,'' he said.

But American authorities report increases in illegal immigration from all of
Brazil's southern, more prosperous states. ''It is as if we have infected other
regions with the migratory virus,'' said Weber Soares, a research specialist in
immigration issues at the Vale do Rio Doce University in Governador Valadares.

The Brazilian government estimates that between 1.5 million and three million
Brazilians are living abroad, most in the United States or Japan. Last year,
according to a congressional estimate, the emigrants sent nearly $6 billion in
remittances back to Brazil, or about the same amount earned by Brazil's leading
export product, soybeans.

Until a few years ago most Brazilians living illegally in the United State went
as tourists and simply overstayed their visas. But that changed when the United
States tightened visa requirements after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and Mexico
changed its visa policy.

''We started because it was something the business community asked for and to
deter the mafia falsifying visas around our consulates,'' the Mexican ambassador
to Brazil, Cecilia Soto, said in a telephone interview from Brasilia. ''But it
has become a problem these last couple of years, and we have seen that the
mafias of human traffickers in both countries are clearly working together.''

She said Mexico planned to send an official delegation soon to discuss
immigration problems.

Many here maintain that any effort to crack down on trafficking schemes is bound
to fail. The smuggling rings will not be eliminated, the argument goes, but only
be driven deeper underground.

''Nothing indicates that this flow will diminish, despite the efforts to scare
people into not going,'' Mayor Mourao said. ''The incentives to go up there to
the U.S. are still high. If anything, the tendency is for the flow to
increase.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nilce Aparecida Moreira da Silva of Braunas grieves for her
husband, who died in an automobile accident en route to the United States.
(Photo by Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times)Map of Brazil shows the
location of Governador Valadares: In Governador Valadares, the passport line is
getting longer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 1, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Spitzer Sues Immigration Counselors

BYLINE: By Abeer Allam (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 81 words


Eliot Spitzer, the state attorney general, sued three immigration consultants
yesterday, saying they defrauded dozens of clients out of $175,000.

Pending a hearing in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, a judge ordered the
consultants -- Angela Pasquino, Luis Cuero, and Francisco Morales -- to stop
seeking clients, Mr. Spitzer said. He said the three, who operated from Queens,
promised to obtain green cards for clients, but did not submit paperwork to
federal agencies.   Abeer Allam (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Congress's Blessing, a Border Fence May Finally Push Through to the Sea

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1304 words

DATELINE: IMPERIAL BEACH, Calif., June 29


The Border Patrol truck lurches along a rutted road paralleling the Mexican
border and comes to a stop on a mesa above Smuggler's Gulch, a 300-foot-deep
gully that has been a prime route for bandits, border jumpers and raw sewage
from Tijuana to Southern California for more than 150 years.

Michael D. Hance, a supervisory Border Patrol agent and a 17-year veteran of the
border wars in the San Diego sector, hauls his considerable frame from the
driver's seat and peers at the network of switchback dirt roads running down the
gully and up the other side.

The roads are a nightmare for Border Patrol officers and a huge advantage for
the border crossers who slip through here every night. The solution, Mr. Hance
says, is to cut down the hillsides and use the dirt to fill a portion of the
bottom of the gulch, creating a 90-foot-wide roadway across the top that can be
fenced and lighted and patrolled 24 hours a day.

''At some point in time we have to have an enforcement zone here,'' he said.
''There's a problem at the border, and it needs to be fixed. Ignoring it is not
going to make it go away.''

Since 1997, the Border Patrol has been building a barrier wall extending 14
miles inland from the point along the coastline where Mexico and the United
States meet. It started as a 10-foot-high wall made of military surplus steel
landing mats used for aircraft in Vietnam. Over the years, the wall has been
supplemented by a second fence made of steel mesh, with a lighted roadway
between the two fences that is constantly monitored and patrolled by Border
Patrol vehicles.

But 3.5 miles of the project remain to be completed, and Smuggler's Gulch is the
most vulnerable spot along that span between the ocean and the San Ysidro border
station, five miles inland. The Border Patrol wants desperately to complete the
last section, but has been stymied until now by environmental and regulatory
roadblocks.

This spring, as part a military spending bill, Congress gave the Border Patrol a
green light to complete the fence, essentially pre-empting the state laws and
federal environmental regulations that opponents had used in court to stall the
project.

The act left some state officials powerless, and fuming.

''You cannot build that thing in that way and be consistent with California's
coastal protection law,'' said Peter Douglas, the executive director of the
California Coastal Commission, one of the most outspoken opponents of the border
fence. ''The exemption based on the so-called terrorist threat is a backdoor way
of achieving what they couldn't do legally. Now I guess in the name of security
from terrorism, you can do anything you want. It is a monument to the politics
of fear.''

Mr. Douglas and other environmental foes of the project object to the scale of
the wall along its entire length and its impact on land forms, vegetation and
wildlife. But they are particularly opposed to the Border Patrol's plans for
Smuggler's Gulch, which involve shaving off the tops of two mesas and moving 2.2
million cubic yards of dirt to create the roadway.

Opponents say that not only would such a project alter the landscape, it would
also create a huge problem of silt buildup in the Tijuana River Estuary, which
runs from the gulch northwest to the Pacific shore. The estuary is a federally
protected wetland and wildlife refuge that is home to a number of endangered
bird species, including the light-footed clapper rail, the California least
tern, the least Bell's vireo and the American peregrine falcon.

Michael A. McCoy, a veterinarian and an officer of the Southwest Wetlands
Interpretive Association, said the Smuggler's Gulch project would denude large
areas of hillside, allowing silt and sand to drain into the estuary, essentially
choking the life out of it. Dr. McCoy said that his group and others fighting
the Border Patrol did not object to a single well-policed fence along the border
but that they were trying to stop the large earth-moving project the government
proposes.

''They say their job is to protect the American public, and I'm sure it is,''
Dr. McCoy said as he walked along a trail through the estuary. ''But
environmental laws protect the welfare, health and interests of the people of
the United States as well.''

He said the erection of the primary barrier beginning in 1997 had a decidedly
favorable impact on the estuary. Before the fence went up, tens of thousands of
Mexicans streamed across the undefended border, trampling the marsh grasses that
were the habitat of the birds, leaving garbage in the area and even eating eggs
from the birds' nests.

''The fence stemmed that kind of destruction,'' Dr. McCoy said. But he said that
a double or triple fence, with all the rearranging of the land involved, would
do more harm to the environment than it was worth as a deterrent.

The project divides the area's Congressional delegation as well. The primary
sponsor of the barrier is Representative Duncan Hunter, a San Diego Republican
and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. Representative Bob Filner, a
Democrat, represents the district that includes the border and is a staunch
opponent of the project, at least as currently designed.

Mr. Filner said the border fence would take $50 million to complete, money
better spent elsewhere defending the border.

''It ain't worth the cost,'' he said. ''It's just a rip-off of the environment
and the taxpayer.''

He said he was particularly incensed by the provision in the recent law that
exempts the border project from state and federal environmental, safety and
labor laws. He also said the law was based on what he called the specious
argument that international terrorists were using the Mexican border as a means
of access to the United States. ''I have never been told that somebody suspected
of terrorism has been arrested along that border,'' Mr. Filner said.

But Mr. Hunter, who has been agitating for tighter security along the border for
more than a decade, said the fence was necessary to protect the security of the
nation. ''There's just no sense in having that big a hole just a few miles south
of the biggest naval base in the country,'' he said.

''Security concerns should override what I now consider to be frivolous
opposition to this project,'' Mr. Hunter said. ''I think it's time to move ahead
and get this thing built.''

The San Diego border fence has undeniably reduced the illegal traffic across the
border in the southwest corner of California. In the early 1990's, the Border
Patrol apprehended an average of 500,000 illegal border crossers a year in the
San Diego sector, representing half of all apprehensions along the entire
2,000-mile border with Mexico. Last year, the total was 138,000.

But as the traffic in San Diego has decreased, there has been an exponential
rise in crossings in the Arizona desert, a far more hazardous route, as
immigrants have sought a less fortified path. In 1997, before construction of
the San Diego barrier, the Border Patrol recorded 129 deaths among illegal
immigrants. Since then, the average has been close to 400 deaths a year, largely
attributable to the more dangerous routes through the desert and mountains of
Arizona and eastern California.

''The fences themselves have simply diverted the flow,'' said Wayne A.
Cornelius, director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the
University of California, San Diego. Professor Cornelius said his research
showed that 92 percent of Mexicans seeking to enter the United States illegally
eventually succeed.

''Bottom line,'' he said, ''there is no evidence that fence per se has been an
effective deterrent. They have helped to jack up smugglers' fees and forced
crossings into more remote and dangerous spots.''

Fences, Professor Cornelius said, ''are simply a symbolic show of force.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE FENCE -- Goat Canyon, just west of Smuggler's Gulch, is
also part of the proposal for finishing the fence along the Mexican border.
Here, the fence ends just before the large hill.
SMUGGLER'S GULCH -- This 300-foot-deep gully presents an advantage for border
crossers and a particular problem for border patrol officers.
 TIJUANA RIVER ESTUARY -- Opponents of the fence plan say it would create silt
buildup in the estuary that could choke the life out of it. (Photographs by
Monica Almeida/The New York Times)Map of California and Mexico highlighting
Border Fence.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 8, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Police Class, Blue Comes in Many Colors

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words


When 1,600 recruits become police officers next week, they will make up the
first graduating class in the history of the New York City Police Department
that is majority minority; less than half the men and women are white. The
difference -- the class is 45.2 percent non-Hispanic white -- is seen by many as
a significant marker in the department's slow racial evolution.

But the racial breakdown is only one facet of the class. Looking closely at it
provides a real-time snapshot of the force and its relationship to the city,
with the newest immigrant police officers representing the city's newest
immigrants, though belatedly. Many of the white recruits are themselves
immigrants. And a very high percentage of new recruits live in the city, in
contrast to many older officers, who work in the five boroughs but live in the
suburbs.

At the very least, those in the department and those who watch it agree, the
shift to such a class presents a moment to take stock of a department that has
not always reflected the racial makeup of the city it polices -- whose
population has been less than 50 percent non-Hispanic white since sometime
before the 1990 census. -- and has at various times had a deeply troubled
relationship with different groups.

Police officials say the change comes at a time of unusually strong community
relationships with the police. Critics say that while the new class may be
mostly minority, whites still occupy a disproportionately high percentage of the
highest-paying jobs. Officials say changes will eventually come at those levels,
too.

''There is less tension in the streets among the police and the people that we
police than we have seen in my career,'' said Raymond Kelly, the police
commissioner.

The Police Department hired Sam Battle as its first black police officer in
1911. Today, the 37,000-member force is 53.2 percent white, a level that
decreases each year with retirements. In the last four years, more than 10,000
officers have graduated from the academy -- just under half of them non-Hispanic
white.

The rest of the department is 17.4 percent black, 25.5 percent Hispanic and
about 3.8 percent Asian. It is one of the more representative agencies in a city
that, as of the 2000 census, was 35 percent non-Hispanic white, 26.6 black, 9.8
percent Asian-American, and 27 percent Hispanic. The Fire Department, in
contrast, is 92 percent white.

''On the street, where the rubber meets the road, is where you see the diversity
displayed most clearly,'' Commissioner Kelly said.

In 1999, when the department came under sharp criticism after four white
officers shot a West African immigrant, Amadou Diallo, whites made up 67.4
percent of the force. Twenty years earlier, the force was 86.6 percent white.
(The merger of the transit and housing police, which traditionally had higher
percentages of minorities, into the main Police Department in 1995 helped
increase the number of blacks and Hispanics.)

The class that will graduate on Wednesday is 45.2 percent white, 18.3 percent
black, 28.2 percent Hispanic and 8 percent Asian-American. Many of the white
recruits today are themselves immigrants, often from Eastern Europe; 63.3
percent of the incoming class lives in the city and 15.6 percent are women.

''When I came on in 1970, there were only 300 Hispanics on the job,'' said
Rafael Pineiro, the chief of personnel, who is one of the highest-ranking
Hispanics in the history of the department. Today, he said, there are about
8,000 Hispanics. ''We've come a long way.''

There are 68 minority officers at the rank of captain or above -- or 10 percent.
Critics say this is partially due to subtle, systemic discrimination against the
promotion of minority officers. However, the department claims the disparity is
largely a function of time lag for newer recruits to move up and of the civil
service promotion exam, which controls promotions up to the rank of captain. For
reasons that are subject to debate, some minority groups take and pass those
tests at a lower rate.

Promotions above the rank of captain, from deputy inspector up to chief, are
discretionary. Commissioner Kelly said the minority percentage of those ranks
exceeds that in the eligible pool of captains.

Some critics also say that minority officers often do not get the same
opportunities in prestigious specialized units like counterterrorism. ''On the
internal scale of the Police Department, minorities are playing roles which are
least significant,'' said Anthony Miranda, executive director of the National
Latino Officers Association of America, who is a 21-year department veteran.

The association filed a class-action lawsuit in 1999, claiming that the
department had created a hostile environment for minority officers, who it said
were disciplined in a discriminatory fashion and suffered reprisals when they
complained. The suit was settled for $26.8 million in 2004 and included an
agreement for the  department to analyze whether minority employees are being
discriminated or retaliated against.

The city's shifting immigrant population, along with the department's recruiting
campaign through the mainstream and ethnic media, have been key reasons that the
academy classes have grown more diverse.

The Police Department has long been a steppingstone to the middle class for the
city's immigrants: it offers a promise of steady pay, good benefits and a sense
of belonging to an American institution. For generations  that promise drew
Irish, Italian  and German immigrants and their children. Today, the immigrant
mix is just as likely to include Dominicans, Chinese, Bangladeshis, Haitians and
Russians.

''The Irish and the Italians are getting outpaced by the newer immigrant
arrivals,'' said Michael Cronin, the executive director of the New York Police
Museum.

Word of mouth is also a powerful recruitment tool within immigrant communities.
''Officers are our best recruiters,'' said Martin Morales, a deputy inspector,
who heads the recruiting efforts. ''They go out and tell their families and
friends.''

Syed Maksud Shah, a 31-year-old Bangladeshi immigrant, joined in large part
because his twin brother, Syed Mokbul Shah, was a police officer.

In turn, he has spread the word to his Bangladeshi friends. ''They work in
hotels, in candy stories, driving taxis,'' said Mr. Shah. ''I encourage them,
tell them this is the best job nowadays, with lots of benefits,'' said Mr. Shah,
who will return to Bangladesh for an arranged marriage after his graduation.

Woo Ham, a 24-year-old Korean-American police recruit, said his parents brag
about his job to their friends, many of whom own nail salons and delis. ''The
first thing they say when they meet old friends is 'Hey, how are you doing? My
son's in the N.Y.P.D.,''' said Mr. Ham, who himself has polished nails done by
his mother, a manicurist.

For those whose families have been in the country for generations, the reasons
for joining the force vary.

''The pay is not the best, and you have a chance of dying, but you have a direct
impact on people's lives,'' said Joseph Muller, 27, a fourth-generation police
officer whose great-grandfather was an officer in Brooklyn before it merged with
the rest of the city.

Mr. Muller's reasons for joining the force are different from those of his
grandfather. ''It was the height of the Great Depression,'' said Mr. Muller.
''It was a good job, solid benefits, pension.''

The historic influence of the European immigrant groups is still felt around the
department -- reflected in the bagpipes and drums that are used in ceremonies,
for example -- but gone are the days where officers automatically asked one
another which Catholic high school they went to or on which football team they
played.

Asian-Americans are the fastest-growing group in the department, having made up
only 2 to  3 percent of a graduating class just five years ago. Historically,
Asian-Americans have been reluctant to allow their children to join the police
force, in part because doing so was seen as putting strangers ahead of the
family.

Ever since the Police Department established an Italian Legion in 1905 to
investigate the Mafia, the department has put the diverse backgrounds and
language skills of its officers to work in undercover, intelligence and other
assignments.

Shaimaa Peterson, a 25-year-old Egyptian-American, hopes her linguistic skills
and religious background will be assets to the department, especially in
domestic security. ''I know the religion, what phrases are out there,'' said Ms.
Peterson, who lived in Egypt until she was 18.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the members of the New York Police Department's latest,
and most diverse, class at the Police Academy last week. A majority of the 1,600
recruits are members of minority groups, the first time that has ever occurred.
(Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Woo Ham, at left, is one of the recruits in the Police Department's most
diverse class. Mr. Ham, a Korean-American police recruit, said his parents brag
about his job to their friends. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York
Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 9, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

L.I. Community Focus of Debate On Immigrants

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., July 8


Mexico's consul general for the New York region said on Friday that the Long
Island community of Farmingville had become a national flash point on
immigration issues because of the latest conflict over day laborers evicted from
overcrowded houses cited as unsafe.

The consul general, Arturo C. Sarukhan, criticized local officials at a news
conference here on Friday, saying they should help relocate the displaced
tenants and soothe local tensions.

''I would say that Farmingville, except for the Arizona border, seems to be a
unique flashpoint or red flag on the map,'' Mr. Sarukhan said in a separate
interview. ''Farmingville has become a symbol of how we need to solve the
profound dislocations that have been occurring'' in immigration.

The Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, may have been ill-advised on
Farmingville, Mr. Sarukhan said, urging him ''to rethink his position'' and heal
local rifts. Mr. Sarukhan said he would seek ''a face-to-face meeting'' with Mr.
Levy next week.

Mr. Levy replied in an interview that he had already met the consul general and
knew his views. ''If it's possible to fit him in, we'll see what we can do,''
Mr. Levy said about another meeting. ''But,'' he added pointedly, ''I don't need
a lecture.''

Mr. Levy also found himself at odds with nine members of his own Hispanic
Advisory Board, who complained he had ignored them and quit in protest. Newsday
reported the resignations on Friday.

But Mr. Levy, a Democrat who took office last year, said he had met with the
board more often than his Republican predecessor did in 12 years, and described
most of those who quit as disgruntled Republican holdovers.

In vitriolic volleys in the past three weeks, critics called Mr. Levy ''racist''
and accused him of ''ethnic cleansing'' in Farmingville, while he retorted that
the critics were ''extremists'' and the ''lunatic fringe.''

Farmingville has been torn for several years as thousands of Mexicans, many of
them illegal aliens, flooded into its mostly white working-class neighborhoods.
Longtime residents often complain about throngs of men congregating on
sidewalks, waiting to be hired for the day, and about blight they say is caused
by overcrowded flophouses. Advocates for the Mexicans say most are hard-working
and fill a demand for low-paid manual labor.

The tensions have prompted protest marches on both sides, and even violence. In
2000, assailants pretended to hire two laborers, then beat them nearly to death.
In 2003, a house was set afire by teenagers, and the Mexican family sleeping
inside barely escaped.

Emotions boiled over anew last month as the Suffolk police assisted Brookhaven
Town officials in arresting a landlord and closing a 900-square-foot
single-family house for safety violations. Inspectors said that they found 44
beds and that up to 64 men had stayed there.

Neighbors hailed the crackdown as overdue. Town officials said they were
investigating other overcrowded houses in Farmingville, more than 150 at last
count, and estimated that there were 300 more such house in other parts of
Brookhaven Town.

But advocates for the immigrants object that they had no warning and were forced
into homelessness. Mr. Levy said that the county social service agency would
help those who were eligible, but that illegal aliens did not qualify, and that
nonprofit agencies would be enlisted to find them temporary quarters.

Mr. Sarukhan said he was not questioning the county executive's ''decision or
authority to enforce those fire codes.'' But he faulted Mr. Levy for not meeting
with representatives of the Mexicans, and for failing to use ''the bully
pulpit'' of his office to heal Farmingville's wounds.

''The day laborers are not criminals,'' he said. ''They are law-abiding. They
are hard-working, and most are taxpayers.'' He urged a broad discussion among
the two governments and local officials, including issues of gangs and
international trade.

The county's role has been ''totally exaggerated,'' Mr. Levy said, because the
town is responsible for code enforcement. But he wholeheartedly supports it, to
rescue tenants from dangerous conditions and protect neighborhoods from
slumlords.

Mr. Levy said that the consul general ''would have been more productive if he
had announced he was giving money to the county to help residents from Mexico
who are here illegally.'' He also urged that Mexico improve its economy so its
citizens will not be lured across the border.

''The constituents are overwhelmingly behind me in our effort to enforce the
law,'' Mr. Levy said. The issue has generated hundreds of calls and letters,
which he said run nine to one in support. ''Just today I finished taping a
television show and a woman from Farmingville came up and kissed me and thanked
me for standing tough.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 13, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Among Janitors, Labor Violations Go With the Job

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1915 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


From the age of 14, Isaias Garcia cleaned office buildings, waxing floors and
scrubbing bathrooms, as long as 16 hours a day.

For the first 40 hours a week, he says, he was paid under the name Ramon
Caballero, and for the next 40 hours as Iziqueil Gonzalez. The cleaning
company's managers used these names of former employees, he says, to avoid
paying him time-and-a-half.

''They never paid overtime,'' said Mr. Garcia, a 24-year-old immigrant from
Mexico, who is seeking back pay from the cleaning company with the help of
California's labor department. ''When I complained about the two names, they
said if I kept bothering them about it, they'd fire me.''

Mr. Garcia is part of a large and largely unnoticed group of workers -- the
nation's 2.3 million janitors -- employed in an industry in which violations of
wage laws and other laws are all too common, say workers, immigrants' advocates
and even cleaning company executives.

Janitors are denied overtime pay, classified improperly as independent
contractors, locked in the stores overnight and forced to work their first two
weeks unpaid, based on dozens of interviews and numerous lawsuits and government
enforcement actions. In some cities, immigrant workers are induced to buy
franchises for $10,000 with promises of striking it rich, though earnings often
fall short of the promises and franchises are sometimes simply stripped away.

''Illegal working conditions are pervasive in the nonunion part of the
janitorial industry,'' said Gary Blasi, director of the Industrial, Labor and
Employment Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles.

The industry has undergone a metamorphosis in the past two decades, creating a
marriage of convenience in which building owners have increasingly hired outside
contractors to cut their labor costs. The cleaning contractors frequently hire
immigrants, often without proper papers and at low wages, trying to squeeze out
profits as they submit rock-bottom bids to win business. The immigrant workers
dare not complain about safety or minimum-wage violations for fear of being
fired -- and possibly deported.

In this netherworld, cleaning contractors sometimes hire illegal immigrants for
$3.50 an hour, considerably less than the $5.15-an-hour federal minimum wage;
janitors frequently work off the books, not paying taxes, and building owners do
not look too closely at how the work gets done.

Undocumented Workers

 Although many janitors in New York, Los Angeles and other cities earn $10, $12,
even $16 an hour in unionized jobs in big office towers, hundreds of thousands
of janitors work in restaurants, supermarkets and shopping malls for a fraction
of that pay. Some of the nation's biggest companies have agreed to
multimillion-dollar settlements in recent months after complaints about
janitorial practices.

''Cleaning contractors deliberately seek out an undocumented work force because
they want workers they can intimidate and exploit,'' said Lilia Garcia,
executive director of the Maintenance Cooperation Trust Fund, a Los Angeles
group run by business and labor representatives, which investigates janitorial
companies to uncover illicit practices. ''Workers who are here legally would not
work for the wages that they pay.''

The metamorphosis of janitorial work is nowhere more apparent than in Los
Angeles. In the early 1980's, janitorial jobs were coveted here, but building
owners soured on the $12-an-hour prevailing wage, nearly four times the federal
minimum then and the equivalent of $24 an hour today.

Some building owners turned -- often under union pressure -- to big, respectable
contractors, like ABM Industries, with 73,000 employees. But many other owners
turned to fly-by-night companies that relied heavily on illegal immigrants and
often flouted wage and hour laws.

''Our industry lends itself to these sorts of improper practices because there
are no barriers to entry,'' said David Haas, president of Merchants Building
Maintenance, one of the West's largest cleaning companies. ''In the Southwest,
the immigrant work force is easily exploited. They're not very sophisticated,
and there's an abundance of them.''

A quarter century ago, one-fourth of this city's janitors were Hispanic
immigrants. Now more than 90 percent are, and perhaps half are illegal
immigrants, industry experts say.

Whatever the status of workers, companies are required by law to pay the minimum
wage and overtime, withhold taxes and pay Social Security and other employment
taxes.

Mr. Garcia, who lives with his wife, 5-year-old son and 4-year-old daughter in a
one-bedroom apartment in Anaheim, said he received $500 for 80-hour workweeks
cleaning buildings in Anaheim, Irvine and Santa Ana.

''If they paid me right, it would have made a big difference,'' he said. ''Maybe
I wouldn't be living in such a small apartment.''

Mr. Garcia said his supervisors at Pacific Building Care often did not pay him
under his own name because it was cumbersome to update the payroll. He declined
to discuss his immigration status, but he said he paid his taxes.

Mr. Garcia and 30 other janitors who worked for Pacific Building Care have
complained to the California labor department, demanding unpaid overtime. He
says he is owed $22,000.

Jennifer Corbett-Shramo, chief executive of Pacific Building Care, denied that
her company had failed to pay overtime or had paid people under improper names.

Ms. Corbett-Shramo entered the business in 1985 by answering a Penny Saver
advertisement and built the company into a $20-million-a-year operation.

''We are not advocates of using second names,'' she said. ''We do not allow it.
We do not preach it. It is not something we do here. To the best of my
knowledge, it didn't happen.''

As for other cleaning companies, Ms. Corbett-Shramo acknowledged, ''Our industry
can be very, very corrupt.''

The industry's practices have ensnared some of the nation's biggest companies.

In March, Wal-Mart Stores reached an $11 million settlement with the Justice
Department after federal agents arrested 350 illegal immigrants who worked as
janitors at its stores in 21 states. A dozen of Wal-Mart's janitorial
contractors pleaded guilty to employing illegal immigrants.

Wal-Mart and its contractors are accused in another lawsuit of employing
thousands of janitors from Brazil, Mexico, Russia and other countries seven
nights a week without proper payments. The company says it left the matter to
its contractors and was unaware of any illegal activities.

A Settlement Is Reached

 A contractor for Target, Wal-Mart's arch-rival, agreed last August to a $1.9
million settlement after the United States Labor Department asserted that the
contractor had not paid overtime to 775 immigrant janitors in five states.

California's three largest supermarket chains -- Safeway, Albertson's and Ralphs
-- agreed in January to pay $22.4 million to settle an overtime lawsuit brought
on behalf of 2,000 janitors, many of them illegal immigrants. Those janitors
asserted that they worked seven nights a week and received just $3.50 an hour
from the supermarkets' cleaning contractors.

The Service Employees International Union helped to bring that lawsuit, as part
of a strategy to pressure contractors to improve wages, to publicize bad working
conditions and to advance its efforts to unionize tens of thousands of janitors.
That union asserts that more government enforcement is needed, but enforcement
is problematic. Janitors often work late at night, with a few workers here and
there, and government officials are sometimes reluctant to pursue wage
violations involving illegal immigrants. Immigration officials and labor
officials at the federal and state levels say they are seeking to crack down on
violations, but there are fewer wage-and-hour investigators than there were five
years ago.

Paco Navarro, a 25-year-old immigrant from Puebla, Mexico, said he worked for
seven years cleaning several Von's stores, a division of Safeway, at first
receiving $225 a week for 56 hours -- eight hours a night, seven days a week.
That came to $4 an hour.

Building One, the cleaning contractor, eventually raised his pay to $320 a week,
slightly more than the minimum wage, but with no premium for overtime.

''They didn't pay us right,'' said Mr. Navarro, who lives with his wife and
1-year-old son in a cramped two-bedroom apartment in South Los Angeles that they
share with another Mexican family.

Threats of Firing

 He said he worked years in a row without any vacation, often working 364 days a
year -- with only Christmas off. ''And if I took off sick, they'd threaten to
fire me,'' he said.After Safeway joined the $22.4 million settlement, conditions
improved. Until recently, Mr. Navarro cleaned another Safeway store for a
different contractor after Building One went bankrupt. There he made $350 for
seven nights a week, but his hourly pay remained less than California's
$6.75-an-hour minimum wage.

''Where else can I work?'' he asked. ''I applied to Coke for a job selling soda,
but they asked where are your papers, and we don't have them.''

When Gloria Vega applied for a job cleaning a United Parcel Service sorting
center outside Chicago, the cleaning company there, Contract Cleaning
Maintenance, told her she would work as an independent contractor, rather than
as its employee.

At first, Ms. Vega did not appreciate the distinction, but she soon learned.
Independent contractors need not be paid time-and-a-half when they work more
than 40 hours, as is generally required for nonsupervisory employees.

Ms. Vega said she earned $300 for 56 hours a week, working 6 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
weekdays cleaning the offices, the cafeteria and restrooms and then 5:30 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, cleaning the U.P.S. sorting machines.

''When we protested about overtime, our supervisor said, 'The doors are open for
whoever wants to leave,''' she said.

Helped by the Service Employees International Union, Ms. Vega and several
co-workers have filed a lawsuit, asserting that Contract Cleaning Maintenance
wrongly classified more than 2,500 janitors as contractors to avoid paying
overtime and taxes.

Jose Canales, who managed Contract Cleaning Maintenance's Texas affiliate for
nearly 10 years, said the company improperly labeled the 80 janitors who worked
under him as independent contractors.

''These workers did what they were told,'' Mr. Canales said. ''The company was
just trying to get away from paying added wages, meaning overtime.''

The courts have generally found that workers are contractors if they manage
themselves, stand to make profits from their work, supply their own equipment
and can come and go when they want.

Anthony DiVincenzo, a lawyer for Contract Cleaning Maintenance's owners and its
Texas affiliate, said the Internal Revenue Service once ruled that the company's
janitors were independent contractors for tax purposes.

''It shows that these companies have been run in compliance at least with some
administrative authorities,'' Mr. DiVincenzo said.

He said that the Illinois and Texas operations recently began treating their
janitors as employees.

U.P.S. denied any knowledge of improper activities.

Ms. Vega said that after she and several other workers began complaining and
threatening a lawsuit, managers asked to re-examine their immigration papers and
fired many of them, saying their papers were inadequate.

''Since then,'' Ms. Vega said, I haven't been able to find a steady job.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Isaias Garcia says he is owed $22,000 in overtime pay and has
complained to the California labor department. Mr. Garcia is shown with his son
Diego, 13
wife, Rosario
 daughter, Adela, 4, and son Josue, 5. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York
Times)(pg. A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths
FLEISHAKER, DOROTHY

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 179 words


FLEISHAKER--Dorothy. The Board of Directors and staff of HIAS, the Hebrew
Immigrant Aid Society, sadly mourn the passing of Dorothy Fleishaker, beloved
wife of HIAS Board member Donald J. Fleishaker.

The Fleishakers' commitment to living a life enriched by and connected to Jewish
tradition and values as well as passing it on to their children and
grandchildren set an example for all of us. The Fleishakers have for many years
been major contributors to the success of HIAS' worldwide mission of refugee
resettlement and relief and particularly the HIAS Scholarship Program for
immigrant students in the United States and Israel. We extend our deepest
sympathy to Donald Fleishaker and the entire Fleishaker family. May her memory
be for a blessing.

FLEISHAKER -- Dorothy L. Passed away July 11. Beloved wife of Donald; loving
mother of Sandy and Tim Wuliger, Rhoda and Craig Smolow, Abbe Fleishaker, and
Sheryl and Aaron Fleishaker. Proud grandmother of 11 wonderful grandchildren.
Funeral services at Beth El Synagogue, New Rochelle, New York, at 10 A.M., July
13, 2005.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Trenton: Motor Vehicle Services For Noncitizens

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 110 words


Motor vehicle offices, which were closed to noncitizens after the terrorist
attacks in 2001, have re-established service for noncitizens, Sharon Harrington,
the Motor Vehicle Commission's chief administrator, said yesterday.

After the attacks, officials restricted noncitizens to four motor vehicle
offices. Since then, workers at all 45 motor vehicle offices have been trained
to inspect documents and get access to federal data. Licenses for noncitizens,
which used to be automatically renewed every four years, now expire within 90
days of visa expiration dates. Federal officials estimate that there are about
500,000 legal immigrants living in New Jersey.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 16, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Father And Son To Be Deported

BYLINE: By Carolyn Marshall (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 71 words


A Muslim father and son from Lodi, detained on immigration charges since June 6
in connection with an federal investigation into possible terrorist activity,
agreed to be deported to Pakistan. The men, Muhammed Adil Khan, 47, an Islamic
cleric, and his son, Mohammad Hassan Adil, 19, will leave the United States in
exchange for the government's withdrawal of accusations that they lied to obtain
visas.   Carolyn Marshall (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 16, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Appeals Court Frees Somali Man Held 6 Years in Deportation Case

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 426 words


Six months after the Supreme Court approved his deportation despite the violence
and chaos plaguing his homeland, a Somali man who has spent nearly six years
jailed in immigration limbo will instead be set free, perhaps as soon as today,
according to an appellate court order issued yesterday afternoon.

The man, Keyse G. Jama, will remain under parole-like supervision while federal
immigration officials continue to negotiate with officials in Somalia to arrange
his acceptance there. Mr. Jama was flown 18,000 miles from Minneapolis to
Somalia in April only to be rejected by local officials for lack of proper
papers.

Mr. Jama, 26, was originally sentenced to a year in jail in Minnesota after
pleading guilty to assault in a 1999 bar fight, and he has come to symbolize the
tricky situation of immigrants who have no right to stay in the United States
but no practical way to leave.

''He asked if it's a dream,'' Mr. Jama's lawyer, Kevin Magnuson, said of his
client's reaction to the decision yesterday by the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit to vacate its stay of a May release order by the
trial judge.

The impending release comes after a lengthy legal struggle in which Mr. Jama, a
legal resident of the United States, at first protested his deportation on the
ground that Somalia lacks a functioning government. Since the Supreme Court's
rejection of that argument in January, he has begged to be released or deported,
but because he has no valid passport, immigration officials have struggled to
devise a dependable deportation plan.

The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement could not be reached for
comment yesterday, but its lawyers filed court papers saying the government
still intended to try to deport him as soon as possible.

While Mr. Jama is believed to be the only Somali refugee in long-term detention
awaiting deportation, about 4,000 of his countrymen also face imminent removal
if the government manages to establish a reliable route. Some, like Mr. Jama,
are convicted criminals, but most are being deported because their applications
for asylum were rejected.

Mr. Magnuson said that the two sides in Mr. Jama's case had debated the timing
of his release during a telephonic court hearing yesterday evening, and that
another such conference was planned for today.

''We were teasing about whether he wanted to have a big Somali meal,'' Mr.
Magnuson said last night. ''He said, 'I don't know. I haven't had Somali food in
so long, I don't know if I can eat it.'''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 17, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Responding To the Law Of 'Nimby'

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words


PERHAPS the most surprising thing about the past few stormy weeks in the life of
Steve Levy, Suffolk's county executive, is that he seems surprised.

He seems surprised by the names he has been called and perhaps even by the names
he has called others. He expresses surprise at the intensive news media
attention from near and far, all of it, as he sees it, because he has enforced
the law.

''I'm frustrated at the myths that are being perpetrated,'' he said in an
interview on Tuesday, more than three weeks after he touched off the storm by
sending Suffolk police officers to help shut down an illegal rooming house in
Farmingville where more than 60 men, most of them illegal immigrants, were
living.

When advocates for immigrants immediately accused Mr. Levy of insensitivity and
race-baiting, he exploded in anger -- first at the advocates, and then at the
news media for what he considered unfair coverage.

''I'm 'insensitive' because I'm enforcing the law?'' he said. ''This is what you
call damned if you do and damned if you don't.''

The immigrant problems in Suffolk County are not the county's alone, of course.
The workers are part of a nationwide influx, mainly from Latin America, of
people seeking the economic opportunity they cannot find at home, and sparks
have flown in communities across the country where concentrations of illegal
immigrants have appeared. Washington has sent mixed signals about how to handle
the influx, so local officials like Mr. Levy have been left to their own
devices, which are usually a limited set of political tools and traditions.

The late-20th-century suburban landscape that produced Mr. Levy may be
remembered in the future for a long list of things -- sprawl, the soccer mom,
the four-car garage, the Levitt splanch -- but planning won't be on that list.

What defines this landscape instead is the first law of suburban life, known by
the acronym Nimby, for ''not in my backyard.'' It deems that all comers are free
to do as they please, as long as it doesn't displease the people next door.

This unwritten law of the land is central to the lives of all its politicians --
the more homegrown the politician, the more deeply so -- and there are few
politicians on Long Island more homegrown than Mr. Levy, who is a native of
Holbrook. So when he entered the county executive's office in 2004 after 14
years as a main-street Democrat -- famous for the door-to-door campaigning that
won him six terms in the County Legislature and one in the State Assembly,
always from Republican districts -- he was sure to hear the howl rising long and
loud from the hamlet of Farmingville.

Residents there had complained for years about illegal immigrants gathering for
day-labor shape-ups in local 7-Eleven parking lots and living, crammed 40 and 50
to a house, on streets of single-family homes. The overcrowding was sometimes so
severe, neighbors said, that the men were forced to use the backyards as
bathrooms.

Mr. Levy's predecessor, Robert J. Gaffney, a Republican and former F.B.I. agent,
seemed stymied by the crisscrossing mandates of federal immigration policy and
local peacekeeping. But Mr. Levy has appeared to see the situation from the
start as a neighborhood nuisance problem with a local solution.

''There's only two ways you can go with this,'' he said. ''You enforce the law,
or you don't.'' He meant the local health and building codes, but perhaps also
the reason they exist, the unwritten law of Nimby.

His first move last fall was to try to ''deputize'' county police officers as
federal immigration agents. When the police union balked, he turned to lending
their services to the Town of Brookhaven's building department.

The town had its sights on what it said were 117 illegal rooming houses in
Farmingville, almost all crowded with laborers who cut lawns, bus dishes and
paint houses for sub-minimum wages.

When outraged advocates for immigrants called his tactics ''ethnic cleansing,''
he dismissed them as a ''a lunatic fringe.'' He lambasted newspaper and
television coverage of the men left homeless by the rooming house raids, telling
reporters at a news conference on Monday that they had missed the real story,
about the ''integrity of neighborhoods,'' and sputtering in indignation at any
suggestion that he was singling out Hispanic immigrants or playing to voters'
prejudices.

''I like Steve, but I think what's he's done is shameful,'' said Paul Tonna, a
county legislator. ''And the fact that many people in Suffolk County are happy
about it -- I hear his poll numbers have gone up since he did this -- is even
more shameful.'' The poll results he referred to could not be confirmed.

''Steve Levy is very much attuned to what I call the windbreaker man,'' said
David Bishop, a county legislator who sat next to Mr. Levy at legislative
meetings for years. Mr. Bishop described this prototype as the ''Korean war
veteran'' who happens to be conservative, Republican-leaning,
independent-voting, tax-hating and law-and-order-loving.

''He knows exactly what that guy is thinking,'' Mr. Bishop said, ''and that's
how he has been able to survive.''

From the beginning of his career, Mr. Levy has trod a fine line among his
several chosen roles as anti-establishment reformer, tax-cutting conservative,
environmentalist and the windbreaker man's best friend.

Patrick Halpin, the last Democratic county executive before Mr. Levy, sees in
him a politician ''who eventually ends up in a decent place but has a tendency
to appeal to people's worst instincts.''

In his last term in the County Legislature, for instance, Mr. Levy supported an
English-only bill that would have set legal limits on the county's use of
Spanish. It was deeply resented in the Hispanic community and ultimately vetoed
by Mr. Gaffney. But Mr. Levy's support seems to have left an indelible
impression on advocates like the Rev. Allan Ramirez of the Brookville Reformed
Church, who has called Mr. Levy evil.

Mr. Levy's relations with Suffolk's Hispanic population have been soured further
by the resignations of Renee L. Ortiz, Mr. Levy's chief of minority affairs, in
April and 9 of the 19 members of his Hispanic Advisory Board on July 7.

But Mr. Levy's calculation is that sooner or later, everyone will benefit from
his policies, Hispanic and non-Hispanic alike.

''I analogize it to what Rudy Giuliani did when he stopped the squeegee men,''
Mr. Levy said in an interview. ''The extremists said he was trampling on rights.
But now, even his harshest critics are grateful that they can walk the
streets.''

Alex Gutierrez, a high school Spanish teacher who remains on the Hispanic
Advisory Board as its chairman, said he saw Mr. Levy as well intentioned.
''Those places are a disgrace,'' he said, ''and people should put the blame
where it belongs, on the landlords.''

But he also expressed sympathy for the men displaced from the rooming houses.
''These are people taking jobs that no one else wants, and the government should
give them working papers so they can participate and pay their taxes,'' Mr.
Gutierrez said. ''These people are here to stay.''

What happens next to those men is a question not answered, and apparently not
asked, by Mr. Levy.

''It may not be politically correct to say, but the goal of many of these
immigrants is not to establish roots here,'' he said Tuesday, ''but only to work
here and mail back as much money as possible to their family elsewhere.''

Still, how should those men be treated while they are here, he was asked. What
is the plan?

Mr. Levy answered without a pause: ''The plan is to enforce the law.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Levy, the county executive.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 20, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Patrolling the Border for Migrants From Mexico, With a Humanitarian Goal

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1282 words

DATELINE: SUNLAND PARK, N.M., July 16


The small airport in this town on the edge of El Paso does more than straddle
two countries. As seen by Armando Alarcon, an amateur pilot engrossed in an
effort to prevent migrants from dying of thirst on their odyssey across the
Chihuahuan Desert, it straddles two worlds.

One world belongs to the Learjets and Citations owned by the Mexican industrial
magnates of Ciudad Juarez who keep their planes discreetly and safely tucked
away in hangars across the border. Mr. Alarcon's 30-year-old Cessna with its
cramped cabin captures another reality on its weekly flights above creosote
bushes, extinct volcanoes, a humble fence marking the line in the dirt between
Mexico and United States, and, sometimes in surreal slow-motion, migrants on
foot reeling from heat exhaustion.

As armed militia-style organizations like the Minutemen Civil Defense Corps call
attention to the disarray along the border, Mr. Alarcon has created a group in
El Paso called Paisanos al Rescate, or Countrymen to the Rescue, that tries to
limit deaths among those who risk everything for a chance at a better life in
the United States. About a dozen volunteers in small planes drop bottles of
water by parachute to migrants on the desert floor.

''The Paisanos bring a little bit of dignity and hope to a trip that nobody
wants to make,'' said Eduardo Samano, 36, a laborer from the state of Morelos
who was gathered with others in a trash-strewn plaza in Palomas, a Mexican town
about 50 miles from Sunland Park where migrants often prepare for their
journeys. Mr. Samano, who said he hoped to find work cleaning the manure in
cattle pens in the Texas Panhandle, had heard of Paisanos al Rescate from
reports on Mexican television.

''Do the people in the United States who hate us think we're out here for fun?''
he asked.

The plastic water containers that Mr. Samano and others carry when they depart
Palomas for their trek across the desert are easily depleted before they reach a
destination, often Deming, N.M., about 30 miles away. At least 262 migrants who
were crossing the border with Mexico have been found dead since October, a sharp
increase from 178 in the comparable period last year, said Salvador Zamora, a
spokesman for the United States Border Patrol in Washington. With summer
temperatures above 100 degrees, most of the deaths are a result of dehydration
and heat stroke.

Mr. Alarcon, 37, who lives in El Paso with his wife and three children, is an
unlikely radical in the polarized world of border politics. Slightly pudgy and
often clutching a BlackBerry pager, he works as a sales manager for Swift
Transportation, one of the nation's large trucking companies, and studied
engineering at the University of Texas at El Paso.

But as with many recent entrants into the middle class in El Paso, a city of
680,000 that rubs up against Juarez, Mr. Alarcon's life is a little more
complicated. He arrived in the United States as an infant in the arms of his
mother as she waded illegally across the Rio Grande, leaving behind her home in
Sinaloa in northern Mexico.

He became a United States citizen in his 20's while serving in the Army in the
first Persian Gulf war; military officials sped up his American passport so that
he could be dispatched to a base in Saudi Arabia as a supply specialist.

Increased vigilance along the border after the terrorist attacks of September
2001 forced migrants to undertake riskier crossings. Mr. Alarcon said he decided
to form Paisanos three years ago after the Border Patrol found the body of an
8-year-old girl who had been abandoned in the desert by her smuggler.

''That was our 'go, no-go' moment,'' said Mr. Alarcon, who started Paisanos with
several other volunteers last year after spending more than $80,000 of his own
money to buy the Cessna.

The group relies on donations, about $3,000 in cash so far, to cover the cost of
aviation gasoline and water bottles. Pedro Zaragoza, a prominent Mexican
businessman who owns a dairy and beverage concern in Juarez and Krispy Kreme
franchises in El Paso and Juarez, has donated bottles and fuel.

Most of the checks are for small amounts, like $25 from Gail Ann Schultis of
Parkville, Mo. ''Dear Paisanos al Rescate folks, I read of your recent efforts
on a visit to El Paso,'' she wrote. ''I lived there from 1979 to '89 and salute
your work.''

The group's main pilot is Mario Luna, whose day job is flying the corporate jet
for a beer distributing company based in El Paso. Like Mr. Alarcon, Mr. Luna,
39, arrived illegally in El Paso as a child from Mexico. The group has about a
dozen active volunteers. Its name is a nod to Hermanos al Rescate, or Brothers
to the Rescue, the Cuban-American organization that flew over the Florida Strait
in the 1990's to assist people fleeing Cuba by raft.

Though Brothers to the Rescue became an emblem of the anti-Castro politics of
South Florida, the Paisanos group tries to avoid politics. Mr. Alarcon shies
away from endorsing or criticizing specific immigration policies, saying the
group's main objective is to conduct humanitarian missions within an imperfect
system. Some advocates view Mr. Alarcon's group as a symptom of the border's
woes rather than a solution.

''They're carrying out an act of faith, and it's something we should recognize,
but it doesn't go to the heart of the problem,'' said Fernando Garcia, director
of the Border Network for Human Rights in El Paso. ''There is no sign the U.S.
is prepared to change policies that are killing people on the border. There is a
crisis of death resulting from the refusal to recognize the contributions
immigrants make to society.''

Mr. Alarcon's approach, while too mild for some, has drawn criticism from those
who consider it misguided. ''We have mixed emotions about what he's doing,''
said Richard N. Azar, 84, a co-owner of a flight school in Sunland Park. ''The
Statue of Liberty welcomes these people, but they're breaking the law to enter
this country, and that isn't right.''

One outspoken member of the Minutemen group in Texas, Wanda Schultz of Houston,
said migrants should not be relying on the assistance of Paisanos. ''If you
don't want to die, don't come,'' Ms. Schultz, 68, said in a telephone interview.
She added that she would give migrants water if they were suffering from
dehydration and then turn them over to the Border Patrol.

The Paisanos do not hand over the people they encounter, unless distressed
migrants ask them to, a policy that is generally fine with the Border Patrol.
Doug Mosier, the public affairs officer for the El Paso sector, said he had no
reason to believe Paisanos al Rescate was doing anything other than providing a
humanitarian service. ''We've given them a phone number they can call if they
encounter someone in distress,'' Mr. Mosier said.

The first bubble-wrapped plastic water bottles dropped last year burst upon
hitting the ground, prompting some migrants to curse at the Cessna. Mr. Alarcon
solved that problem with the help of a volunteer engineer from California who
suggested using the small surplus parachutes that the Army uses for nighttime
flares. The white parachutes now carry a silk-screened message in Spanish --
''God blesses you'' -- and the telephone numbers of Mexican and Salvadoran
consulates.

Some evenings Mr. Alarcon drives into Mexico to talk to the migrants preparing
their cat-and-mouse trip.

''The senselessness of it all can get to you, all the money being spent to
harass people who want to be our maids and gardeners,'' Mr. Alarcon said. ''It's
as if the Cold War were being fought again with the Mexicans as the bad guys. If
the tragedies here weren't so common, this would feel like my own version of Spy
vs. Spy.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mario Luna and Armando Alarcon, above left, prepare to drop
bottles of water attached to parachutes to migrants from Mexico crossing the
desert in New Mexico. Their 30-year-old Cessna, above right, searches weekly for
migrants. Below, a group of illegal immigrants are driven back across the border
by the searchlight of a Border Patrol helicopter. (Photographs by Michael
Stravato for The New York Times)Map of New Mexico highlighting Sunland Park:
Migrants often try to reach Deming, N.M., from Palomas, Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In American Mill Towns, No Mirror Image of the Muslims of Leeds

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words


After the four suicide bombers in London were identified last week, news
accounts focused on life in the old mill town of Leeds, where they grew up: the
immigrant enclaves, the high unemployment, the rising anger and alienation of
Muslim residents. Some Britons grasping for an explanation pointed at those
conditions, however tentative their link to homegrown terrorism.

That rough sketch of Leeds had a familiar ring for many residents of the
Northeastern United States, where old mill towns in New Jersey and upstate New
York have also drawn many immigrants to faded neighborhoods teetering between
blight and renewal.

Three of the suspects were raised in immigrant families from Pakistan and one
from Jamaica. New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are now home to at least 20
percent of the nation's 219,000 Pakistani immigrants, and more than half of the
513,000 immigrants from Jamaica.

But the differences between the suspects' hometown and the depressed cities
around New York are actually stronger than the similarities. Social conditions
among British immigrants, for example, appear to be considerably worse than they
are in the United States.

The 747,000 Pakistanis in Britain, counted among its nonwhite residents, are
three times more likely to be out of work than white Britons, according to one
of several bleak statistics showcased in the 2001 British census. Forty percent
of Pakistani women and 28 percent of Pakistani men are listed as having no job
qualifications, and school failure among Caribbean blacks is triple the rate for
white Britons, who constitute 92 percent of the population.

In America, where few surveys even break out ethnic origins, a much rosier
picture emerges from available figures. Pakistani household incomes in New York
are close to the $43,393 median and exceed it in New Jersey -- $56,566 compared
with $55,145, according to 1999 figures, the most recent available. Jamaicans
fare a little less well statewide, but have robust rates of household income and
educational success in New York City, where they are concentrated. They have a
clear edge: English proficiency in a place where one in four residents cannot
speak it well, and where nearly half of the work force is foreign-born.

While South Asian immigrants to Britain began arriving soon after World War II,
they were part of a stream of temporary workers to a small, culturally
homogenous country where they remained outsiders. In the United States, the
pioneer immigrants from predominantly Muslim lands arrived mainly after 1980,
many as university students, and like Caribbean blacks, entered a diverse
country built on immigration.

But demographics fall short of explaining terrorism. As details emerged about
the British suspects' relatively prosperous lives, experts and immigrant parents
alike wondered how much collective benchmarks mean in predicting the extremism
of a handful of angry people.

Compared with Britain, ''We definitely have a different dynamic going on here in
the United States,'' said Peter Skerry, a political scientist at Boston College.
''I don't know that that necessarily means we're out of the woods -- it doesn't
take very much for a set of individuals to adopt attitudes that could lead to a
terrorist act.''

Others, like Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center of Immigration
Studies, which favors more restriction on immigration, point out that this
important demographic difference is temporary: Since most immigrants to the
United States from Muslim countries arrived after 1990, few of the children born
to them here have reached adulthood yet. He found that more than 85 percent of
the 100,000 children born in America to Pakistanis and Bangladeshis are under
20.

In a Jersey City shop where fresh goat meat and comic videos in Urdu compete for
shelf space, Zafar Zafar, a Pakistani father of three, echoed such concerns last
week. Mr. Zafar, whose oldest child is 13, struggled in imperfect English to
convey his horror at the case of Shahzad Tanweer, 22, the suspect described as a
pious but fun-loving youth whose father owned a fish-and-chips shop in Leeds.

''It's like a bad dream,'' Mr. Zafar said. ''Someone, crazy guys, make
brainwashing.'' He added, ''We need protection. Like, every week, two times a
week, all youngsters in community should go together, and someone is teaching
them, 'This should no happen again.'''

So far, there is little research and less agreement on how well Muslim newcomers
are assimilating as Americans, say scholars like Mr. Skerry, who is associated
with the Brookings Institute, and Robert S. Leiken, the director of Immigration
and National Security at the Nixon Center.

''The whole issue of assimilation and integration in relation to terrorism is
extremely complicated,'' Mr. Leiken cautioned, noting that more terrorists have
turned out to be social winners from an educated middle class, rather than
impoverished losers. ''Integration may be going well, but there are people who
assimilate as critics, as revolutionaries.''

There is general agreement, he said, that since 9/11, larger numbers of young
Muslims in the United States feel victimized, resentful and alienated, but that
is where the consensus ends. ''Some people hold that Muslims are integrating in
just the same ways that other American immigrants have integrated,'' he said.
''Others see a process of radical Islamicization.''

Once children born to Pakistani, Egyptian or Iraqi immigrants might simply have
found a dual identity in a hyphenated bridge to their parents' national origins.
But Mr. Skerry, who has been interviewing such immigrants across the country,
said events since 9/11 -- special registration programs, the Patriot Act and the
war in Iraq -- almost require even secular families in this second generation to
construct an American identity as Muslims.

Partha Banerjee, director of the New Jersey Immigration Policy Network, an
immigrant advocacy organization, warned of a growing sense of political
exclusion among such immigrants, who are facing an anti-immigrant backlash with
virtually no elected officials from their own ethnic group.

Income statistics in New Jersey hide sharp disparities, he noted, like the chasm
between suburban sahibs in places like Somerset, the nation's most affluent
county, and poor Pakistanis and Bangladeshis in crowded Jersey City households.

''Violence and terrorism really have no place in a civilized society and I'm not
condoning any type of excuse for it,'' Mr. Banerjee stressed. ''But the fact
remains that if you just exploit and abuse people without giving them their
rights, you run the risk of creating a danger in your own society.''

In Jersey City, where more than a third of residents are foreign-born, there are
no hard-edge ethnic enclaves. A policeman pointed out the second-floor mosque
where Omar Abdul Rahman, the blind sheik, used to preach and plot to blow up New
York landmarks; it sits over a Chinese takeout restaurant now.

A short walk from Mr. Zafar's shop on Newark Avenue on a recent Friday morning,
Haitian families in starched finery entered an old movie palace for a convention
of Jehovah's Witnesses. At the beauty parlor nearby, everyone was speaking
Spanish. And down the block, Indian, Pakistani and Chinese immigrants of
different faiths flocked to Patel's Cash and Carry for sacks of rice advertised
in an all-American way: ''Buy two, get one free.''

Fauazia Modak, 26, a Muslim immigrant from Bombay, paused in her shopping to
protest what she said were harsh government immigration policies that seemed to
blame all Muslims for the crimes of a few. Then she smiled at her son Mizan,
just under 2.

''I don't think the children over here would be brainwashed,'' she said, leaning
over his stroller. ''I want him to be religious, but I want him to respect all
religions. Not just his religion, not just his country.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sunni Rizvi Jamia Mosque in Jersey City is housed in a
building that earlier served as a synagogue and an abolitionist Baptist church.
 Mahendra Kumar Patel, the manager of Patel's Cash and Carry in Jersey City, has
immigrants of many ethnic groups as customers. (Photographs by Librado
Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 23, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Union City: Bars In Smuggling Case Closed

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by Diego Ribadeneira

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 151 words


The police closed two bars yesterday where federal authorities said that young
Honduran women were forced to drink and dance with customers to repay a violent
group that had smuggled them into the country with promises of waitress jobs.
The action came a day after the bars' owner, Luisa Medrano, and nine others were
indicted on charges of smuggling aliens and of compelling them into forced
labor.

''Since we understand the U.S. attorney's investigation is continuing, we are
treating the two bars as active crime scenes and will keep them shut down until
the investigation is complete,'' said Charles Everett, the Union City police
chief. He added that the actions in the indictment, which describes females as
young as 14 working in the bars, could provide grounds for the liquor licenses
to be revoked. Mr. Medrano, 50, of Cliffside Park, operated El Paisano Bar and
Nightclub and El Puerto de la Union II.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Marchers Protest Border Patrol Group

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: LAS CRUCES, N.M., July 23


Hundreds of demonstrators marched through the streets here on Saturday to
protest a controversial civilian border patrol group, calling it racist and
un-American.

The League of United Latin American Citizens, one of the oldest Latino civil
rights organizations in the country, organized the rally to show that volunteers
from the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps were not wanted in the area.

''It's a racist organization, there is no question,'' said the league's national
treasurer, Jaime Martinez. ''They say they will monitor the border, but now they
are coming into our cities. Something has to be done.''

Minuteman volunteers, who plan to patrol parts of the border in New Mexico and
Texas in October, have repeatedly denied claims of racism. The group gained
attention earlier this year when it patrolled a section of the Mexican border in
Arizona.

William N. Norris, a coordinator for the group's New Mexico chapter who attended
Saturday's rally, said the group's goal was not to stop immigration but to
ensure that immigrants ''fill out the paperwork and sign the guest book at the
gate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 27, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minutemen At Our Borders
<To the Editor:

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 63 words


There is a serious difference between the Revolutionary militia of 1775 that
fought the world's biggest empire at the time (Britain) and a bunch of national
chauvinists who seek out vulnerable immigrants.

The actions of these vigilantes are not revolutionary but bigoted and
reactionary. Anti-racists everywhere should confront them.

Kathleen Brown
Burlington, Vt., July 23, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 27, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Minutemen At Our Borders
<To the Editor:

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 103 words


The real story of this nation is not that we are latently violent but that we as
a people are slow to rise when challenged.

No, we don't automatically default to violence. Lest we forget, the deity did
not confer freedom on Americans -- it was fought for and won dearly at the hands
of farmer militiamen and regular soldiers.

Sarah Vowell compares the Revolutionary-era Minutemen with the 21st-century
ragtag outfit that went down to the United States-Mexican border to make a
political statement.

That they used the same title -- Minutemen -- shouldn't confuse anyone.

Christopher Melhuish
Norfolk, Va., July 23, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cash Flow Across Border Starts to Get More Savvy

BYLINE: By BETSY CUMMINGS

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1357 words


Some weeks, Jose Edgardo Andrande makes less than $200. Other weeks, his pay
tops $1,200. ''But then it goes down to $500'' the next week, said Mr. Andrande,
42, a job hopper from El Salvador who, for 24 years, has shuffled among
delivery, electrician, restaurant and construction jobs in the United States.

Despite the fluctuations, one financial transaction has remained constant. Each
month he sends $700 home to support his two sons and mother in his native San
Salvador.

As the Hispanic population in the United States continues to surge, rising 10
percent to 41.3 million last year, from 37.4 million in 2002, something else is
surging along with it: the money, known as remittances, that day laborers who
work in America's restaurant kitchens and mow suburbia's lawns send back home.
The cash flow was $32 billion in 2004, up from $28 billion in 2002.

And therein lies an opportunity for entrepreneurs.

A cottage industry has sprung up in recent years of companies that not only
transfer immigrant workers' money to their homelands cheaply, but also offer
them a way to establish credit in the United States and learn how to make their
money work harder.

Mr. Andrande is a recent convert. He uses Mi Pueblo, a unit of the Microfinance
International Corporation, a Washington company created in 2003 to help
immigrants leverage the power of the remittances they send to their home
countries and bolster their earning and investment potential in the United
States.

Last September, Microfinance started Mi Pueblo to offer account, money transfer,
credit, loan and money management services to immigrants from Latin America.
''The motive of immigrants is to come here, get a job and to work hard and send
money back home to support their family,'' said Atsumasa Tochisako,
Microfinance's chief executive. ''But, unfortunately, in a developed country
like the U.S., there is not an appropriate financial service infrastructure
prepared to serve those immigrant people.''

As Microfinance International opens accounts, currently with Salvadorans only,
through a pilot program in Maryland, Virginia, Delaware and Washington, it joins
a growing contingent of smaller financial institutions, from credit unions to
independent banks, that are taking an increasingly larger piece of the
remittance pie.

Microfinance International's four shops in the Washington area, for example,
recently were conducting 1,500 transactions a month, with an average remittance
of $250. But the company says transactions have been increasing recently, by 20
percent a week at each shop, fueled by radio advertisements and fliers
distributed in Hispanic neighborhoods as well as by word of mouth. The company
projects revenue of $2 million this year and $10 million next year and hopes to
become profitable by 2007.

Mr. Tochisako said the remittance market was barely tapped in the United States.
Moreover, he hopes to transform remittances from being mainly a means of support
for relatives back home into a new source of international financing that can
empower immigrants to enhance their financial standing here and abroad, and even
become entrepreneurs in the process.

All of that sounds appealing to Mr. Andrande.

''That's a good idea to start a business, but I have to have the money,'' he
said. Most banks see Mr. Andrande, a contract worker, as a risky borrower. But
not Microfinance International. It has already provided him two loans worth
$5,000 this year, $2,000 of which he has already repaid. And, without a loan,
his earnings after the $700 remittance for his two sons and mother in El
Salvador might not cover his $610 rent in Washington and other expenses for his
wife and two daughters who live here.

Though sending remittances is a decades-old practice, it has only recently been
tracked in the United States. Interest among banking centers is growing, largely
because the dollar amounts continue to increase each year, said Donald F. Terry,
manager of the multilateral investment fund of the Inter-American Development
Bank in Washington, a multibillion-dollar lender to Latin American and Caribbean
nations.

At the same time, immigrants are becoming more emboldened to establish accounts
at financial firms in their communities.

Four bills currently before Congress would make it easier for immigrants to use
credit unions for remittances and loans, and credit unions are eager for a
greater piece of that business, said Patrick Keefe, vice president of
communications for the Credit Union National Association in Washington. Their
bid to join the ranks of small financial outfits, large wire-transfer firms and
national banks could make for a fiercely competitive market.

Mexico is by far the greatest recipient of remittances, accounting for $16.6
billion there in 2004, according to Inter-American Development Bank statistics.
But for other countries, even though they may see less money, remittances are
crucial for their economic stability.

''This country is held by remittances,'' said Jose Napoleon Duarte, the son of
El Salvador's president from 1984 to 1989 with the same name, and the financial
manager for Fundacion Jose Napoleon Duarte, a microfinancing company in San
Salvador. The company helps some of the country's residents receive the $2.5
billion in remittances sent each year, accounting for up to 25 percent of the
country's economy.

It is imperative to help immigrants in the United States keep remittances
flowing, specialists say. But the problem until now has been that immigrants
sending cash home often paid stiff fees. The market leader, Western Union, for
example, charges $12 to $70, depending on how much money is being sent and to
where. The company says its prices are competitive and its plentiful locations
more than justify the fees.

But newcomers like Microfinance International say their fees are much lower. Mr.
Tochisako's firm charges $6 to send up to $150 to Latin America and $9 for any
amount over that. Fees aside, many immigrants are afraid to open accounts at
major American banks for several reasons, such as fear that the banks will be as
untrustworthy as the banks in their native countries. And they often have not
been the most desired customers, they add, because of the small size of their
accounts.

They have, instead, wired money through transfer services, and the cash is
consumed by families, rarely saved. With the advent of companies like Mr.
Tochisako's, that is slowly changing. ''One of the things we've seen lately is a
lot of people sending remittances from the U.S. are starting to think their
money is not being handled well'' by recipients, Mr. Duarte said.

For that reason and to help local economies grow, credit unions, banks,
microfinancing institutions and others are hoping to funnel remittances into
accounts, rather than deliver it as cash. Companies like Microfinance
International offer account services so immigrants can wire money from one
account to another. That reduces sending fees and helps direct where portions of
remittances end up -- in savings accounts, for example, rather than directly
into the free-spending hands of relatives.

In addition, Microfinance International is building a base of clients in America
to increase the company's revenue so that loans starting at $150,000 and up can
be given to Latin American microfinance organizations which can, in turn, direct
the money to entrepreneurs in their country. Of remittances sent, ''most will
still be pulled out for consumption,'' said Mr. Terry of the Inter-American
Development Bank, ''but 15 to 20 percent stays in for savings.'' Or at least
that's the goal of various initiatives the Inter-American Development Bank is
crafting with microfinance groups in the United States and throughout Central
and South America.

''Our goal is simply over the next few years to get 10 percent of that flow into
Latin America into microfinance institutions,'' he said. ''That means $5 billion
of the $50 billion worldwide. That's not impossible.'' And, 15 to 20 percent
into savings, he said, ''means more than $1 billion that could be lent to
entrepreneurs in those countries.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Austin Allan and Claudia Ramos helped a patron at Mi Pueblo
Financial Services in Washington. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Once a Frightened Newcomer, Argentine Consul Now Seeks to Guide Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 868 words


Twenty-six years ago, as a young political refugee from Argentina, Hector
Timerman was afraid to ask police officers for directions. When the landlord of
his Greenwich Village apartment failed to provide heat, he just moved. And when
he faced a judge in small-claims court, he trembled, remembering judges in
Argentina under the military dictatorship that had imprisoned and tortured his
father.

Today, Mr. Timerman, 51, is consul general of a democratic Argentina in New
York, a city where he feels thoroughly at home. But he has not forgotten what it
is like to be a newcomer. He has just published the consulate's first guide for
Argentine immigrants in the New York metropolitan region, who he estimates have
grown to 100,000, both legal and illegal. Many are part of an exodus that began
in 1994 and soared after Argentina's economic collapse in 2001. They are far
needier, and far more likely to be in the United States illegally, than an
earlier wave of middle-class professionals who began arriving in the 1960's, or
political exiles like Mr. Timerman, whose father, the distinguished journalist
Jacobo Timerman, was one of the junta's most celebrated prisoners.

At a time of growing American anger over illegal immigration, Mr. Timerman is
well aware of the diplomatic risks of producing the free 115-page guide, which
answers 195 questions in Spanish about negotiating life in the city, or as he
puts it, ''from where to buy Argentine pizza to how to complain about police
brutality.''

He stressed that the 5,000 copies would be distributed only to those who have
already emigrated, unlike a pamphlet produced by the Mexican government that
caused a furor because it instructed migrants on how to safely enter the United
States illegally and live here undetected.

''We are not promoting immigration from Argentina -- on the contrary,'' said Mr.
Timerman, who returned to Argentina in 1989 after spending a decade in New York,
where he helped found the advocacy organization Human Rights First. ''The
reality is that they are already here. I have to look after them. We cannot
abandon them -- they are part of Argentine society.''

During an interview at the consulate, a neo-Georgian mansion at 12 West 56th
Street, just west of Fifth Avenue, Mr. Timerman reflected on the historic turns
that made such a guide necessary, and that put him, the grandson of humble
Russian Jewish immigrants to Buenos Aires, in the position to publish it.

For most of its history, Argentina was a country of immigration. But in 2001,
the economy collapsed. Whether citizens blamed policies of the International
Monetary Fund or government corruption, they were suddenly unable to cash a
paycheck. Bank accounts were frozen, and 55 percent of the population sank into
poverty. ''People saw no future, especially for their kids,'' the consul said.

Most of those who left went to Spain or Italy, but many came to the United
States, which between 1994 and 2002 included Argentina among countries whose
citizens did not need a visa to visit. By the time Argentines were removed from
the visa waiver program, hundreds of thousands who had arrived as tourists were
working in the country illegally, trying to rebuild their lives.

The economy is now improving, and some Argentines are heading back. Ernesto
Seman, the consulate's director of community affairs, said about 40 a month show
up at the consulate for the necessary customs forms. But many others ask how to
survive in New York.

To illustrate how badly the guide is needed, Mr. Seman, who wrote it, recalled
the case of a woman who was recently waiting in line to renew her passport. She
looked so pale, he said, that a staff member kept asking if she was all right.
Finally she disclosed that she had been suffering from a urinary tract infection
for three weeks, afraid to seek medical attention because she was not a legal
immigrant. By the time she was treated, he added, she had to spend a week in the
hospital.

The guide, which is available at the consulate, details the city services
available to such immigrants, including public clinics, and emphasizes that
workers are forbidden from disclosing immigration status . Along with
practicalities like check-cashing establishments and apartment-hunting Web
sites, it lists tango spots and Argentine bakeries that are ''helping with
nostalgia,'' said Mr. Timerman.

His own, different brand of nostalgia surfaced when he learned that the
photographer shooting his portrait for this article was the same one who had
taken his picture in 1979. Then, he was in flight from the regime that would
kill thousands of ''desaparecidos'' (the disappeared), among them Mr. Seman's
father and two uncles.

''I was very lucky,'' said Mr. Timerman, recalling the influential Americans who
embraced him, including members of the Carter administration and Osborn Elliott,
then the dean of the journalism school at Columbia University, who swiftly
arranged for him to publish an opinion article in Newsweek and sent him to earn
a master's degree in international relations.

''You have backlash against the immigrants now, after Sept. 11,'' he said. ''But
it's the only country in the world to reach out that way.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Argentine consul general, Hector Timerman, above, at the
consulate. At left, his guide for immigrants. (Photographs by Chester Higgins
Jr./The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Castle Garden Set Stage for Ellis Island

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Fort That Let Outsiders In;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words


The government has been keeping tabs on immigrants since 1820, and Castle Garden
at the Battery, originally built to defend New York from foreigners, was the
city's first official debarkation point. It was the gateway for immigrants until
1890, when federal officials took over responsibility for the newcomers, who
were processed first at the nearby Barge Office and, starting in 1892, on Ellis
Island.

Ellis Island may claim more of the ancestral spotlight, but Castle Garden was no
slouch. More than one in six native-born Americans are descendants of the eight
million immigrants who entered the United States through Castle Garden in Lower
Manhattan beginning 150 years ago next Monday.

On Sunday, the Battery Conservancy will celebrate the anniversary with a free
concert from 4:30 to 10 p.m. at Castle Clinton, the former fort, concert hall
and immigration station that is run by the National Park Service and is part of
the National Parks of New York Harbor.

On Monday, Warrie Price, the founder and president of the conservancy, a
nonprofit group formed to rebuild the 23-acre park, will also begin a free Web
site for scholarly and genealogical research, CastleGarden.org, which includes a
database of more than 10 million of the 12 million immigrants who arrived at the
Port of New York from 1820 to 1892.

The Web site, an electronic archive and a research center constitute the Battery
Conservancy's Center for Castle Garden Immigration.

Ms. Price will also officially inaugurate the Bosque fountain, the capstone of
an $8.5 million renovation financed by the Lower Manhattan Development
Corporation. A restored statue honoring immigrants and donated by the Rudin real
estate family will be rededicated.

Before the War of 1812, a circular brownstone fort called the Southwest Battery
was built on the rocks off Manhattan Island. In 1817, it was renamed Castle
Clinton in honor of DeWitt Clinton, who was the mayor and then the governor. The
fort was abandoned by the Army four years later without a shot ever fired at an
enemy.

The fort, where the nation bade farewell to the Marquis de Lafayette, later
welcomed Jenny Lind, the ''Swedish Nightingale,'' after the addition of a roof
allowed it to be expanded into an opera house and theater.

Meanwhile, in 1820, Congress began requiring records to be kept of passenger
manifests, ostensibly to monitor whether ship owners were overloading their
vessels. But the arrival process remained chaotic. Immigrants were besieged at
the docks by agents -- many of them unscrupulous -- representing or claiming to
represent boardinghouses, employers, railroads and other entrepreneurs who had
designs on the newcomers' savings.

So in 1855, the state transformed the site from a concert hall to an immigration
station.

Researchers said they were unable to verify the name of the first passenger
processed, but John Celardo, an archivist with the National Archives and Records
Administration in New York, said the first one listed on the manifest for the
largest of the first five ships that ferried their passengers to Castle Garden
from the British Queen, which sailed from Bristol, was a 30-year-old laborer
from England named Richard Richards. Castle Garden was connected to the mainland
by landfill and surrounded by a 13-foot-high fence to keep the unscrupulous
agents out. Newcomers could register, be examined, eat, bathe and arrange for
lodging and for transportation for themselves and their baggage before leaving
to settle in the city or to travel to other destinations.

''Now, if the emigrant desires to stop in the city,'' The New York Times
reported a few days after Castle Garden was reincarnated in 1855, ''he may leave
his luggage, to be called for when wanted, and issuing out at the narrow front
gate, saunter up Broadway, and squat, or rent, or buy and build as suits his own
sweet will -- he is already a prospective American citizen and has the freedom
of the city or the land.'' Most, the paper noted, ''are wise enough to push on
where they will be welcomed -- to the West.''

Between 1855 and 1890, about eight million immigrants, mostly Germans, Irish,
English, Scots, Swedes, Danes, Russians and Italians, passed through Castle
Garden. Immigration was virtually unrestricted until 1875, when Congress barred
convicts and prostitutes. An 1882 law excluded anyone convicted of a political
offense, lunatics, idiots and persons likely to become public charges and
imposed a 50-cent tax on every immigrant who arrived by boat.

In 1890, 450,394 passengers were recorded as passing though Castle Garden. Of
those, 364,086 were immigrants. According to the records, 155 had died en route.

In 1896, the castle was transformed into the New York Aquarium. It was largely
demolished in the early 1940's for an approach to a Battery-to-Brooklyn bridge
that was never built. Preservationists persuaded Congress to declare the
original fort walls a national monument.

Original records of the arrivals, which are also available on microfilm at the
National Archives and Records Administration, Northeast Region, in Manhattan,
were lent by the archives to create what Ms. Price of the Battery Conservancy
described as the first noncommercial digitized database of immigrants that
covers almost all the 19th century. The archive was compiled by Ira Glazier, an
ethnic historian.

According to an analysis of census calculations by Joseph P. Ferrie, professor
of economic history at Northwestern University, about 30 percent of native-born
Americans are descended from immigrants who arrived between 1820 through 1892
through the Port of New York. About 18 percent are related to immigrants who
came through Castle Garden and 9 percent to arrivals at Ellis Island during its
peak, from 1892 to 1924.

Scholars and genealogy buffs will now be able to mine the immigration records
since 1820 as deeply as they have the trove of arrivals at Ellis Island (at
ellisisland.org) through 1924. They know, for instance the first at Ellis Island
was 15-year-old Annie Moore, an Irish immigrant from County Cork, whose family
moved to 32 Monroe Street in Lower Manhattan and then to Texas, where she was
killed by a trolley in 1923. (Her great-grandson, Edward A. Wood, is a plumbing
contractor in New Jersey.)

The last person processed at Ellis Island was Arne Petterssen, a Norwegian
seaman who was sent home 50 years ago for overstaying his work permit.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourists buying tickets to Ellis Island and the Statue of
Liberty. At left, a lithograph showing Castle Garden around 1852. The 150th
anniversary of the Castle Garden immigration station, right, will be celebrated
with a concert Sunday. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
(Photo by Museum of the City of New York)(pg. B1)
 Visitors sit under the shade of the inner walls at Castle Clinton. The original
fort walls have been declared a national monument. (Photo by Don Hogan
Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 30, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SPLINTERED, BUT UNBOWED

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 28


Even as he was leading the revolt this week that has divided the labor movement
into warring camps, Andrew L. Stern was wasting no time in trying to demonstrate
that unions are capable of a resurgence.

Mr. Stern's union, the Service Employees International Union, kicked off an
effort to unionize 8,000 janitors in Houston, even though the state of Texas is
particularly hostile to organized labor. In one of the most ambitious organizing
drives in the South, the service employees have set their sights initially on
the Houston operations of ABM, the nation's largest cleaning contractor.

If the service employees can unionize the biggest cleaning company in the city,
Mr. Stern argues, other companies will quickly follow.

For all their ferocious infighting, labor's chieftains agree on one thing: labor
can rebound in the new economy because there still are plenty of opportunities
for old-fashioned organizing.

Millions of workers, they say, are ripe for labor's message because of
stagnating wages for ordinary workers, declining benefits, growing insecurity on
the job, and a sense that the haves are leaving the have-nots further behind.
Moreover, workers in the low-wage service sector are disproportionately women,
immigrants and members of minority groups that have all been traditionally more
open to unionization.

But there are cross-cutting trends that undermine labor's hopes. Workers in
industries that face global competition -- from manufacturers to high-tech
service companies -- fear that if they unionize, that may just hasten their
companies' decision to ship their jobs overseas.

And as the House's narrow vote in favor of the Central American Free Trade
Agreement showed, even though labor retains clout among Democrats, it cannot
overcome a determined drive by the White House and a Republican Party that is
not inclined to do unions any favors.

For all the obstacles, said Mr. Stern, whose union is the fastest-growing in the
nation -- having jumped to 1.8 million members from 1.1 million a decade ago --
''there are a series of things that make a revival possible.''

''First is the environment that Alan Greenspan talked about recently -- the
growing disparity between the wealthy and other Americans,'' Mr. Stern added in
a telephone interview from his office in Washington. ''A second factor is the
category of jobs that are going to remain in this country, that can't be sent
overseas: trucking, janitorial, hospitals, supermarkets. A lot of these workers
aren't paid well, and they need a voice at work.''

In Houston, the service employees union certainly appear to have a strong
selling point: ABM's janitors in Houston earn $5.25 an hour and have no health
benefits, while its unionized janitors in Chicago, San Francisco and New York
earn $15 or more an hour and have health benefits.

It is a classic, sophisticated service employees' campaign: a two-week strike,
full-page newspaper ads, the city's Roman Catholic archbishop and several
members of Congress decrying the janitors' wages and lack of benefits. Not only
that, the union has staged support strikes by ABM workers from California to
Connecticut.

But despite such tactics, the labor movement's vital signs have grown weaker by
the decade. Half a century ago, the union movement was a behemoth, representing
35 percent of private-sector workers. Now it represents less than 8 percent.

But Mr. Stern -- who is widely viewed as the man who will spearhead a resurgence
in labor, if there is going to be one -- prefers to focus on another, more
encouraging statistic: 52 percent of nonunion, nonsupervisory workers say,
according to polls, that they would vote to join a union today if they could.

Counterintuitive though it may be, Mr. Stern says the growing size of American
corporations is another factor that may help labor.

''Employers are larger, and in the end that may be an advantage,'' he said.
''When we organize, it's easier to organize one huge retailer like Wal-Mart or
Home Depot than 100 smaller companies that are totally disaggregated.''

Reversing labor's decline is a tall order. To increase the percentage of the
work force that is unionized would require unions to recruit one million new
members a year, more than twice the current rate of recruitment. Meanwhile,
companies have grown far more sophisticated, and aggressive, in beating back
unionization attempts.

Unions also face huge hurdles getting their message through to millions of young
workers and high-tech workers, who tend to be independent-minded and often
entrepreneurial and look solely to their own drive and talents, rather than
unions, to help them climb the economic ladder.

''Unions have to find a new message,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president for
labor, employee benefits and immigration at the United States Chamber of
Commerce in Washington. ''Stern keeps putting more troops on the ground to
organize workers, but it's more troops with the same message.''

On Monday, the service employees and the Teamsters quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O.,
saying it has done to little to reverse labor's slide. [On Friday, the United
Food and Commercial Workers also quit.] A fourth union, Unite Here, which
represents hotel, restaurant and apparel workers, also plans to quit.

Those unions are cooperating with three other unions -- the laborers, farm
workers and carpenters -- to develop ambitious, multi-union organizing drives at
Cintas, the laundry company, as well as at FedEx and Wal-Mart.

Richard Hurd, a labor relations professor at Cornell University, says the most
likely way for the labor movement to grow again is to focus on low-end
service-sector workers.

''There's an opportunity for unions to build some kind of momentum by focusing
on workers who are the most oppressed,'' he said. Harley Shaiken, a labor expert
at the University of California at Berkeley, added, ''They need a message that
resonates not that you have it bad, but that we can help make your life
better.''

In the Houston campaign, the service employees union, which spends more than
half its budget on organizing, is using several new strategies. For one thing it
is trying to organize 8,000 janitors at once, rather than 20 at a time in
individual buildings. The union is also using its pension power and political
connections, getting public pension funds in California and New York to pressure
Houston building owners to urge their cleaning contractors to pay better.

''Sometimes this can be done with the power of persuasion,'' Mr. Stern said.
''Sometimes it takes the persuasion of power.''

Union leaders agree that for the labor movement to revive, the turnaround must
come in the private sector. Among government employees, unionization is expected
to remain relatively easy even though the governors of Indiana and Missouri
recently stripped state workers of the right to unionize. Because states and
cities rarely go to the mat in fighting unions, 36 percent of the nation's
public employees are unionized.

Factory workers were once the heart of the labor movement, but employment in
many former labor strongholds -- steel, rubber and autos-- has plunged because
of automation and imports.

''Our organizing efforts are not able to keep up with the loss of manufacturing
jobs,'' said R. Thomas Buffenbarger, president of the International Association
of Machinists. Mr. Buffenbarger said his union organized 5,000 workers a year,
while losing 15,000 a year to factory closings and downsizings.

The United Auto Workers has recently organized several auto parts plants,
including a 220-worker Dana auto parts plant in Virginia and a 1,200-worker
Thomas Built bus plant in North Carolina. But noneof those successes have proved
big enough to reverse the union's slide.

''The U.A.W.'s membership seems preordained to decline unless they make a
breakthrough at the transplants,'' Professor Hurd said. ''That is hard because
the transplants provide union wages and benefits. They're in regions not
friendly to unions and use Japanese culture that gives workers a modicum of
voice and feelings of belonging. They're very hard to crack.''

Professional and technical workers may be even tougher to organize. Despite
years of trying, unions have failed to crack even one Silicon Valley company.

''Unions have to adapt to the changing economy in order to succeed,'' Professor
Hurd said. ''A new model needs to be developed that provides these workers with
an opportunity to take their benefits with them and provides them with a voice
at work that may be outside of collective bargaining.''

One such model may be the Communication Workers of America, whose executive vice
president, Larry Cohen, said his union is succeeding with a number of innovative
approaches. At I.B.M., for example, 3,000 employees have joined a
union-sponsored group, Alliance at I.B.M., that provides an advocacy forum for
workers on pensions, career and job security.

The communications' workers, after persuading Cingular Wireless not to oppose
unionization efforts, has organized 22,000 Cingular workers. And while the union
expects to add new AT&T members now that Cingular has acquired AT&T Wireless, it
is making little progress with Verizon Wireless, which is vigorously fighting
unionization.

''When you take away the terror,'' Mr. Cohen said, ''workers are eager to sign
up.''

But not many unions are organizing so aggressively. A decade ago, John J.
Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, urged unions to spend at least 30
percent of their budget on organizing. Stewart Acuff, the federation's
organizing director, said that only five of the federation's 54 unions had met
that goal.

''If we're going to turn this around,'' Mr. Acuff said, ''it's going to take
more than a handful of unions.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew Stern, right, president of the Service Employees
International Union, says millions of workers would like to unionize.
(Photograph, right, by Nam Y. Huh/Associated Press
illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Members of the Service Employees International Union rallied Thursday in Houston
at the end of a strike against a cleaning company. (Photo by Michael Stravato
for The New York Times)
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has watched his labor group
steadily shrink. (Photo by Frank Polich/Bloomberg News)(pg. C13)Chart: ''Waning
Membership''Percent of U.S. workers who were union members from 1948 to 2004.In
1948, membership was at 31.8% . . .. . . while in 2004, it decreased to
12.5%Graph tracks membership since the 1950's.(Source by Bureau of Labor
Statistics
Leo Troy, author of Union Sourcebook, 1975)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Union Work
Force''Percent of each U.S. sector or industry that was represented by a union
in 1975 and 2004.Though overall membership has declined, the number of unionized
government employees has risen.1975: 25%2004: 36Membership in the private
sector, however, has decreased.1975: 21.52004: 8The industries below have had
sharp declines.CONSTRUCTION1975: 352004: 16MANUFACTURING1975: 362004:
13TRANSPORTATION1975: 472004: 27(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Leo Troy, author of Union Sourcebook, 1975)(pg. C13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Day Labor Gets Organized

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 732 words


Not far from the Long Island Rail Road tracks in Huntington Station, N.Y., a
neighborhood of old frame houses and industrial yards, there is a field bordered
at one end by woods. It's less a forest than a tangle of towering weeds and
brambles that blot out the sun but cannot mask the startling blare and rumble of
the Port Jefferson train.

The woods are crisscrossed with paths, hard-packed through much use and strewn
with trash -- six-pack rings, junk-food wrappers and rotting old clothes.
Farther in are makeshift shelters built by some of the 30 people living there:
Latino day laborers who gather near the train station for work every morning and
come back to the woods at night.

The existence of a hidden labor camp a cell-phone's throw away from where
white-collar professionals get on the train to Manhattan is a reminder better
than any other of how firmly immigrant laborers have rooted themselves in the
suburban soil.

It happened when we weren't looking, not just on Long Island, but in California,
Arizona, the Midwest, the South -- and here in Westchester. The arrival of
thousands of men filling jobs at the bottom of the labor market is a
large-scale, long-term economic phenomenon, something no amount of wishful
thinking is going to make disappear.

This was a central message of a national conference of day laborers that ended
this weekend at Hofstra University and included public forums in Yonkers and on
Long Island and a vigil in Farmingville, a central Long Island town that has
seen this region's most notorious clashes between Latino newcomers and hostile
neighbors.

The event, organized by the National Day Labor Organizing Network in California,
coincided with the release of an examination of the nation's day laborers by the
Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at U.C.L.A. The study seeks to understand
how this open-air labor market works by interviewing 2,667 laborers in 143
cities. Its authors acknowledge that they have merely scratched the surface,
because their subjects are highly mobile and wary of the authorities. But their
early conclusions confirm what advocates for day laborers have said for years --
that these are generally hard-working family men, a credit to their countries
and ours, drawn here mostly from Central America by the promise of jobs that no
one else will do.

They have some education, but not much, and are vulnerable to exploitation from
employers who cheat and abuse them. They are harassed, intimidated and insulted,
and suffer debilitating injuries from the hard work they do -- construction and
demolition mostly -- and their lack of medical care.

The researchers also found that this ad hoc confluence of labor demand and
supply has begun to organize itself. There are now about 80 hiring sites for
laborers in 20 cities, where officials have realized the wisdom of making this
segment of the underground economy safer and more accountable. Many of these
sites are set up by nonprofit groups, but sometimes even police departments get
involved.

New York's suburbs could lead the nation in finding innovative ways to confront
the day laborer influx. But we aren't there yet. While some officials have
sought practical solutions, others focus only on part of the phenomenon. They
remain stuck in passionate but pointless debates about the workers' immigration
status, and conduct crackdowns on zoning and quality-of-life offenses that
please the law-and-order crowd but miss the far bigger picture.

There are, however, pockets of homegrown practicality and good sense. This
seemingly anarchic labor market is showing signs of order and maturity. In New
Rochelle, for instance, a new coalition of Hispanic companies and business
people, the Bellas Artes Business Council, has established a waiting space to
get day laborers off the sidewalks and persuaded the city to hire a coordinator
to help match workers with contractors. In Huntington Station, the non-profit
Family Service League has organized churches to shelter the men of the woods on
the bitterest winter days.

Programs like these answer a human need without fuss, moralizing or debate. They
are the response of people who have come to acknowledge the humanity of their
neighbors, even anonymous, undocumented ones. That such efforts are relatively
scarce in our wealthy suburbs is a sure sign that poverty, like people, comes in
many different forms.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hidden Camp, an Open Shame

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; The Suburban Life; Pg.
11

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON STATION, N.Y.


Not far from the Long Island Rail Road tracks in this mixed-up neighborhood of
old frame houses and industrial yards, there is an open field bordered on one
end by woods. It's less a forest than a dense tangle of towering weeds, with
brambles and branches that close overhead to blot out the sun. The underbrush is
alive with the rustling of rabbits and birds, which can startle a visitor almost
as much as the blare of the Port Jefferson train.

The woods are crisscrossed with paths, hard-packed through much use and strewn
with trash -- six-pack rings, vodka bottles, junk-food wrappers and, oddly, old
clothes. Pants, jackets and underwear rot on the ground or hang from branches. A
few stuffed animals sit delicately in the trees as well, placed there like
ornaments.

Farther in are makeshift shelters built by some of the people who call this
place home: about three dozen Latino day laborers who gather near the train
station for work every morning and return to the woods at night.

The existence of a hidden labor camp a cell phone's throw from where
white-collar professionals take the train to Manhattan is as good a reminder as
any of how firmly immigrant laborers are rooted in the suburban soil. It has
happened not just on Long Island but also in California, Arizona, the Midwest
and the South. The thousands of men filling jobs at the bottom of the labor
market are a large-scale economic phenomenon, and no amount of wishful thinking
will make them disappear.

This was a central message of a national conference last week at Hofstra
University in Hempstead. The event, organized by the National Day Laborer
Organizing Network in California, included public forums in Nassau and
Westchester Counties and the release of an examination of day laborers by the
Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at U.C.L.A. The researchers, who
interviewed 2,667 workers in 143 cities, admit that they have only begun to
understand their subjects. But their early conclusions confirm what advocates
for day laborers have said for years -- that these are generally hard-working
family men, drawn here mostly from Central America by the promise of jobs that
no one else will do.

They have some education, but often not much, and are vulnerable to exploitation
from employers who cheat and rob them. They are harassed, intimidated and
insulted, and suffer debilitating injuries because of the hard work they do --
construction and demolition mostly -- and their lack of medical care.

The researchers also found that this ad hoc confluence of labor demand and
supply has begun to organize itself. There are now about 80 hiring sites for day
laborers in 20 cities, where officials see the wisdom of making this part of the
underground economy safer and more accountable. Many are set up by nonprofits,
but sometimes even the police get involved.

Ideally, Long Island could help guide the rest of the country on how to manage
the day laborer influx. But while some officials -- notably the Nassau
executive, Thomas R. Suozzi -- have sought solutions, Long Islanders farther
east are still stuck in passionate but pointless debates about the workers'
immigration status.

There are, however, pockets of homegrown practicality and compassion. In
Huntington Station, the non-profit Family Service League has found a way to
shelter the men and women of the woods on the bitterest winter days. Volunteers
drive them to local churches, where they are given hot meals and a place to
sleep. After breakfast the next day, they get a ride to work or home and a bag
lunch.

This program, led by a staffer named Peggy Boyd, answers a human need without
fuss, moralizing or debate. It is the response of people who acknowledge the
humanity and dignity of their neighbors, even the anonymous, undocumented ones.
That efforts like this are so scarce on wealthy Long island is a sure sign that
poverty -- like people -- comes in many different forms.    LAWRENCE DOWNES


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amid Jeers, Seeking Pride In a Day's Work

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.


''ALL right, girls. Feet together. We have a huge smile on our face. Here we
go!''

And, yup, there they went, kicking, cheering and gyrating to the
thump-thump-thump of beloved arena classics and then squealing in delight and
hopping up and down. You didn't need to shake a spirit stick to get the campers
going in their Riverhead, Plainedge and Pelham shorts and T-shirts at the
cheerleader camp at Hofstra University last week.

And in a meeting room inside, there they went, too, Antonio Bernabe, from Los
Angeles, and Alberto Vidalon, from Morristown, N.J., and people from the Union
Latina de Chicago and the Central Texas Immigrant Workers Rights Center, in
T-shirts that read ''No Human Being Is Illegal.'' Same campus. Different planet.

Like a slide show in which someone had mixed different boxes of slides together,
different realities kept drifting in and out last week at the national assembly
of day laborers sponsored by the National Day Laborer Organizing Network.

So one moment you were in consumer Eden, college division, with students in
designer sunglasses and cellphones seemingly surgically grafted to their ears
drifting from the Mongolian Chop-Chop to the Cereal Box at the student center's
food court.

And the next moment the most visible invisible people in American life, the
anonymous Hispanic men who gather on street corners in Morristown and Freehold,
Mount Kisco and Danbury, Farmingdale and Farmingville, are suddenly there in
real life, with stories to tell, strategies to devise and struggles to share.

''One thing that happens here is that workers stand tall, they look at people
face to face as equals, not seeking their permission, not as oppressed people or
men begging for jobs but as persons with pride,'' said Pablo Alvarado, the
national coordinator of the organizing network, which was started in 1999.
''Because you can't intimidate people who have pride. You think what these
people do is easy? I don't think so. People treat you like dirt. They throw
rotten eggs, ice cream, tortillas with excrement inside. They yell racial
epithets at you. So we tell people what they do is honorable. They should take
pride in it.''

So Mr. Vidalon, a 44-year-old worker from Peru with a wife and a 12-year-old son
at home, soaked up the sessions like a junior manager at a networking seminar,
trading stories about life on the corner and what can be done to improve it.

He's been working on Main Street in Morristown for only two and a half years,
and has a wry outsider's take on life on the corner. Edilberto Banegas, of
Freeport, on Long Island, a Honduran who has done it for 14 years, is less
distanced, more weary.

''I've gotten used to this country, like it's my country,'' he said. ''But you
come here seeking better opportunity, but you feel like it doesn't come back to
you. Without papers, we can desire many things, but we don't ever get there.''

ON Friday most of the people from the conference packed onto a school bus for
the more sedate environs of Sarah Lawrence College in Westchester. They arrived
to another set of contrasts, this time the refined hush of a campus art center
with its various sorts of edgy art and graphic design. (''Men and Women Are
Different. Shouldn't Our Toilet Paper Be?'')

Only this time, just as Julio Castillo, a 39-year-old laborer from Yonkers, was
delivering a talk on his difficulty in getting treatment for a workplace injury,
another form of reality intruded. A man in the audience, Joshua Askew of Mount
Vernon, jumped up and started shouting, so angry, speaking so fast he almost
couldn't be understood, that the men were illegal, that immigration laws should
be enforced. Some people with him joined in, while others shouted back.

Ushered outside, he shouted some more. ''My parents came over here in slave
ships. They worked hard, according to the law. We got the legal system to free
us. We didn't break the law. The jobs we used to have, they're taking now.''

Afterward, Mr. Alvarado was asked what he thought. He said that he understood
the man's concerns but that the laborers were filling an economic need and were
coming to give their children a better life, just as immigrants have always
done, and would come whatever the laws were.

''If you are going to criminalize me for wanting a better life for my children,
for wanting a roof over my head and food on the table, then go ahead and
criminalize me,'' he said. ''We believe in the American dream more than most
people who've been here their whole life.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Pizza Is Still Old World, Only Now the Old World Is Tibet

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1456 words


What do you say to the sushi chef who has just served you the most sublime
yellowtail?

Often these days, it is ''Gracias.'' New tides of immigration have so
transformed New York City that classic ethnic foods and drinks are increasingly
being prepared by people whose ethnicity does not necessarily match the menu's.

Exhibit A: the egg cream. For New Yorkers of a certain age, this was the nectar
of a Jewish neighborhood, and Gem Spa was the drink's sacred temple, certified
as such by magazines and travel writers. Gem Spa is still there, still turning
out egg creams at its narrow patch of a soda fountain in the East Village. But
the person who owns the store and taught the staff to make this curious
concoction of seltzer, milk and chocolate syrup is Ray Patel, a 62-year-old
immigrant from Gujarat state in India.

He learned the recipe, including the secret stirring motions that create a
frothy head resembling beaten egg whites, from the previous owner (Italian), who
learned it from the old owner (Jewish).

''People try to learn new things in a land of opportunity,'' is Mr. Patel's
elegant explanation for how an Indian came to make a drink that is considered
exotic west of the Hudson River, let alone in Gujarat.

The changing of the food guard has been so gradual that New Yorkers often don't
notice that the falafel at their favorite stand has been whipped up by someone
from Latin America.

But some of the changes have been striking.

The pastry chef at Brasserie La Cote Basque on West 55th Street is Ecuadorean.
The pizza maker at Totonno's on Second Avenue and 80th Street is Tibetan. And
one of the sushi chefs at Hatsuhana on East 48th Street, among the pioneers in
initiating the city into the delights of raw fish, is Mexican.

The main reason for this phenomenon -- one observed across a nation being
reshaped by newcomers -- is that the old immigrant pipeline is drying up. The
Italians, Irish, Jews and French who once made their fortunes standing over
steaming pots of spaghetti or slicing endless slivers of paper-thin Nova Scotia
smoked salmon sent their children to graduate schools to become lawyers and
doctors. Keita Sato, the president of Hatsuhana, who grew up on Long Island and
was trained in the delicate art of sushi by his father, said that his
Japanese-American friends preferred to become stockbrokers.

''The younger generation, it's not their No. 1 priority to be a sushi chef,''
said Mr. Sato.

But somebody has to layer the moussaka and coddle the crepes and, increasingly,
those willing to put in the long sweaty hours are newcomers from Latin America
and Asia. A study by Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens
College, showed that the number of New York food service workers from South and
Central America and the West Indies jumped to 54,105 in 2000 from 31,214 in
1990, and the number of Asian workers increased to 34,393 from 25,358, according
to his analysis of census figures. By contrast, the proportion of native-born
workers in food service dropped to 36.2 percent in 2000 from 55.3 percent in
1980. ''When the supply of your fellow ethnics isn't available to staff the
place, you turn to the newest group on the block,'' said Joel Denker, author of
''The World on a Plate: A Tour Through the History of America's Ethnic Cuisine''
(Westview Press, 2003).

Right now, according to Ed Levine, a food writer in New York, ''The work force
in the food world is comprised primarily of Latinos.'' That explains why one of
the best-selling books at Kitchen Arts & Letters at Lexington Avenue and 93d
Street is ''Kitchen Spanish'' by Michael A. Friend and T.J. Loughran.

While the new immigrant workers may start out behind the scenes as busboys and
dishwashers, many rise to positions as chefs or counter people who master not
just the art of preparing other cultures' foods but also the whole accompanying
cultural repertoire. Kenny Sze, an immigrant from Hong Kong who started out in
the 1970's as a teenager at Zabar's and trained to fillet herrings under the
legendary Sam Cohen, owns Sable's Smoked Fish on Second Avenue and 78th Street.
It claims it carries ''the world's best smoked salmon, sturgeon and caviar.''
His shop provided 35 pounds of caviar for the recent wedding of Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg's daughter Emma.

He has learned not only how to pick out a slab of nova before dawn at the right
smokehouse, but also how to speak the smattering of Yiddish needed to kibitz
with customers like former Mayor Edward I. Koch, for whom the patter is as
important as the platter. In an interview, Mr. Koch exulted in the way Mr. Sze
sometimes wraps lobster salad in a slice of sturgeon, and admitted that although
''it may not be Jewish, it's haute cuisine.'' Over all, he said, he appreciates
the diversity in the city's ethnic kitchens.

''It adds an exoticism to it and increases my appetite,'' he said.

Some ethnicities appropriate the food of other cultures that history had forced
them to become familiar with. Albanians run many Italian restaurants, and
Bangladeshis operate many of the Indian restaurants in the strip along East 6th
Street. Some immigrants seize on an unfilled niche -- as the Greeks did decades
ago when they recast the American diner or the Cambodians who run numerous
doughnut shops in Southern California.

Armando Martinez came to the United States in 1994 from the Mexican city of
Puebla. One of his first jobs was as an all-purpose kitchen worker at a Japanese
restaurant near Columbia University. He enjoyed the precision of boning fish and
rolling rice so much that he moved up two years later to Hatsuhana, where the
fish is flown in from Japan and where the care taken with sushi is on a far more
demanding level. (It tries to observe the Japanese tradition that sushi
preparation requires four years of priestlike training.)

Mr. Martinez, who lives in Astoria, Queens, with his wife and 19-month-old
twins, worked his way up a year and a half ago to the sushi counter, where he
and the other eight chefs pare off wedges of salmon and yellowtail and press
them on beds of warm rice. A slender, genial man who was wearing a Yankees cap
during a break, Mr. Martinez spoke of his love for the craft. ''I like to see a
satisfied customer,'' he said. ''To do that, it takes a lot of work.''

Mr. Sato is happy to have Mr. Martinez, since he says it is not easy to find
skilled Japanese chefs. ''In the kitchen when we are right beside each other
preparing the fish and rice, he puts me to shame,'' he said. ''He's better than
most Japanese chefs.''

Totonno's, which was established in 1924 in Coney Island and claims to be the
''oldest continuously operating pizzeria in the U.S. run by the same family,''
has four locations but it despaired of filling them with Italian pizziolas, or
pizza makers, and was not about to take just anybody.

''You have to have a feel for the dough,'' said Louise Ciminieri, granddaughter
of the founder.

Phuntsok Tashi came along just in time. Mr. Tashi, who is of Tibetan ancestry,
immigrated five years ago from Dalhousie, India, in the western Himalayas, which
has a large Tibetan community. A sister worked in a restaurant on Second Avenue
and told him Totonno's, a few doors down, needed a busboy. Soon Brooklyn-bred
Risa Pleger, a part-owner, asked him if he wanted to learn the art of molding
and baking a pizza. He mastered the trick of flattening the dough and spreading
patches of mozzarella, tomato sauce and Romano over it.

''You have to press it very nicely and evenly and then press it from the back,''
he said as he moved the pizza with a paddle inside a brick ovenheated to 1,100
degrees to prevent charring.

Rosa Vergara, 42, immigrated from Cuenca, Ecuador, 12 years ago and landed a job
making jewelry for a garment district business. When the business failed five
years ago, a Peruvian friend who worked at La Cote told her that the kitchen
needed help. Jean-Jacques Rachou, the owner of the longtime institution of haute
cuisine that has had two name changes and a makeover in recent years, said Mrs.
Vergara worked under his pastry chefs and one day told him, '''Give me the
chance and I can show you I can do it.'''

''And she does it,'' he said.

The decorative skills she had learned in the jewelry trade came in handy. As she
spoke with a visitor, she squeezed chocolate and vanilla sauce from plastic
bottles into neat zigzags to adorn a plate holding a raspberry mousse she made
earlier in the day, then dappled the mousse with blueberries.

Mr. Rachou also taught the art of fashioning French delicacies to her
25-year-old sister, Mayra. He had to.

''French cooks don't come to America anymore,'' he said. ''They make more money
in France.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Totonno's on Second Avenue in Manhattan, the pizza maker,
Phuntsok Tashi, is Tibetan, and immigrated five years ago from India.
At Gem Spa in the East Village, Jay Naryane, of India, mixes an egg cream
(considered by some the nectar of a Jewish neighborhood). (Photographs by Don
Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 28)
 Mayra Molina, left and Rosa Vergara in the kitchen of Brasserie La Cote Basque.
(Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 25)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Bombings, Few Signs Of Similar Attacks in U.S.

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU and ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31


Scouring leads from Queens to Oregon, federal investigators have found little
hard evidence to suggest that anyone in the United States was involved in the
recent spate of terrorist attacks overseas or that any follow-on attacks against
American targets are being planned, officials said.

The officials, who spoke anonymously because they were not allowed to comment
about investigations that are under way, said there had been an expansion of the
surveillance of extremists and a redoubling of efforts to interview people in
custody and show them photographs of plotters in the attacks.

''There's obviously been stepped-up activity,'' a Justice Department official
said. ''We've been shaking the trees since Sept. 11, but when you have something
like we've seen the last couple of weeks in London, you have to shake the trees
a little harder.''

At the Homeland Security Department, investigators checked immigration records
to see if any of the suspects had traveled to the United States, officials said.
The department has also been looking over reports from around the country on
suspicious individuals crossing the border or any sightings of people in
off-limits areas around transit systems or other potential targets.

Federal Bureau of Investigation agents have pursued leads regarding possible
connections to suspected extremists and Qaeda sympathizers in Oregon, Virginia,
New York and other locations, officials said.

Law enforcement officials compared the intensified effort to the F.B.I.'s
response to the Madrid train bombings last year.

But the Madrid bombings also provided a cautionary tale when Brandon Mayfield, a
Muslim lawyer in Portland, Ore., was mistakenly arrested after his fingerprint
was erroneously linked to the bombings. Law enforcement officials said they were
mindful in the London investigation of the need to establish clear links before
moving against suspects in the United States.

Although some of the American connections have proved intriguing -- in Queens, a
man convicted of supporting Al Qaeda, Mohammed Junaid Babar, said he recognized
a photo of a London plotter -- no clear evidence has emerged to suggest a link
to American plotters or plans for an attack here, officials said.

Nevertheless, American law enforcement and intelligence officials said they
remained deeply concerned about the prospect of an attack on American soil.

Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, said last week that the
attacks in London and Egypt should remind all Americans to be vigilant and
prepare for the worst.

American officials said that once they have a better sense of who was behind the
London attacks -- and whether the plotters were directly linked to Al Qaeda --
they will be in a better position to conclude whether the events overseas
signaled an increased threat.

''We're not totally sure what we're dealing with yet,'' a senior Justice
Department official said. ''But if the dots aren't there, they just aren't
there, and there may be only so much of a trail to follow.''

The Homeland Security Department has said since the July 7 bombing that it
''does not have any specific credible information indicating that Al Qaeda or
any other terrorist organizations are plotting a similar attack on the transit
systems here in the United States,'' said Brian Roehrkasse, a department
spokesman.

In New York City, as officials have begun searching bags on mass transit systems
and have contacted regional suppliers of chemicals like those used to make the
London bombs, local authorities emphasized that there was no information about
an active threat.

Mr. Babar, a Pakistani-American who pleaded guilty in June 2004 to providing
material support to Al Qaeda, has attracted perhaps the most intense interest.

Last year, he admitted that he had helped set up a training camp in Afghanistan
and that ''some of the people who attended the jihad training camp had ideas
about, you know, plotting against some targets in the United Kingdom,''
according to a court transcript.

British authorities last year discovered plots to bomb pubs and train stations
in Great Britain, arresting eight Britons of Pakistani origin and seizing 1,300
pounds of ammonium nitrate fertilizer, which can be used to make explosives.

Mr. Babar has now told investigators that he recognized a picture of Mohammad
Sidique Khan, 30, one of the bombers killed in the July 7 attacks. But Mr. Babar
has been in jail in the United States for more than a year, making it unlikely
that he would have had any advance knowledge of the most recent attacks.

Germaine Lindsay, a British resident born in Jamaica who was another of the four
bombers in the July 7 attacks, had relatives living in the United States,
including his grandfather, Austin McLeod, who lives in the Boston area.

Investigators interrogated Mr. McLeod and others who may have come into contact
with Mr. Lindsay. ''I have seen him one time in my life,'' Mr. McLeod said last
week. ''I have never seen him again.''

Investigators also have been examining the ties to the United States of a
31-year-old British man, Haroon Rashid Aswat, who was wanted for questioning in
connection with the London bombings. Investigators believe that Mr. Aswat has
met Osama bin Laden and trained at camps run by Al Qaeda.

Mr. Aswat is also suspected of having been involved with a Seattle man, James
Ujaama, in trying in late 1999 and early 2000 to set up a terrorist training
camp in Bly, Ore. He was recently found in Zambia and is now in custody,
American officials said.

Federal investigators have also tried to determine if there are any connections
between the London bombings and defendants in the so-called Virginia jihad case,
in which prosecutors said a group of young men had trained to provide assistance
to anti-American militants overseas.

The Virginia men had ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba, a militant group in Pakistan that
European investigators suspect may have been involved in planning the London
attacks.

But Joseph Price, a lawyer for Randall T. Royer, one of the defendants in the
Virginia case, said he did not believe the F.B.I. had contacted Mr. Royer about
possible leads. ''I would think that there would be absolutely no connection,''
Mr. Price said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

At the Queens General Assembly, Meeting the Neighbors Is a Global Project

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; A Group as Diverse As the
Borough Itself; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words


With its vast ethnic palette, Queens is often described as a United Nations of a
borough. So it is fitting that it should have its own General Assembly made up
of people representing two dozen nationalities and a fair assortment of
religions and races that meets once a month to discuss the state of the world as
it has collected in a single corner of the globe.

At July's meeting at Borough Hall, the topic was hate, and Helen M. Marshall,
the borough president, gave the delegates an insider's perspective on how
officials handled the racially tinged violence on June 29 in Howard Beach, in
which three white men who said they were afraid of being robbed chased three
black men, one of whom was viciously beaten with a bat. The discussion that
followed included comments from people who had the experience of bigotry coiled
into their ethnic DNA.

''What were six young men doing there at 3 o'clock in the morning?'' was the
question from Sirpuhi Mark, president of the Armenian Cultural Center of Forest
Hills, who immigrated in 1971 from Istanbul.

Tracey Bowes, an immigrant of Caribbean descent from Manchester, England, said
that even if the three young black men were in the largely white neighborhood at
an odd hour, questioning their right to be there tells someone like her
16-year-old son, Kyle, that ''he cannot go to every part of this city because of
his skin.''

Richard Khuzami, a son of Lebanese immigrants, pointed out that prejudice was
''carried from generation to generation.''

''The reality is that if you grow up in that kind of household, you're going to
have those prejudices,'' he said, then moved the discussion toward remedies.

Egyptian, Korean, Trinidadian, Italian, Chinese and Indian participants offered
suggestions about ways to diminish bigotry by changing the outlooks of young
people, for example, through programs in schools and colleges that expose them
to other cultures. There could have been suggestions from other delegates --
Ecuadorean, Uzbek, Greek, Dominican, Bangladeshi, Sikh, Mexican, Peruvian and
Malaysian -- but time ran out.

The 28 members of the Queens General Assembly are volunteers picked for their
work on community boards and ethnic organizations, and the topics they chew over
include education, housing and hate crimes.

The assembly's coordinator, Susie Tanenbaum, said no other borough had anything
to match it, which seems fitting, since Queens is by some measures unmatched in
its diversity: 46.1 percent of the borough's residents were born abroad.
Certainly there are not too many borough halls where the pastries served at
meetings include Filipino chiffon cake, Korean sweet purple bean curd and Greek
baklava.

The assembly has no legal powers, so its achievements since it was started in
February 2003 are somewhat intangible. But most crucial, many delegates and
former delegates say, is how the meetings have deepened their understanding of
unfamiliar cultures.

''This helps all of us understand that even if we're different and speak
different languages, at the end of the day we're all human and have the same
concerns for our families,'' said Manizha Naderi, director of Women for Afghan
Women, a human rights group.

Jagir Singh Bains, a 74-year-old turban-wearing Sikh who grew up in the Indian
state of Punjab, has gotten to know his assembly colleague Boomie Pinter, a
46-year-old yarmulke-wearing Jew from Far Rockaway. In an interview, Mr. Bains
told how he had learned more about customs of his Jewish neighbors, like how
they put up huts on balconies or in backyards for the holiday of Sukkot.

''When I see them eat outside their house in a small shelter, that's because in
the old times they didn't have a shelter,'' is how Mr. Bains, a postal
supervisor in Jamaica, explained the practice.

Mr. Pinter, who had scarcely met any Sikhs before, said he has learned that
their religion, which is influenced by both Hinduism and Islam, is ''fairly
moderate'' and ''not at all like the Jihadists.'' Indeed, Mr. Bains, he said, is
not very different from his own father, an immigrant who escaped from Nazi
Germany in 1939 and became a civil engineer.

''He's someone who comes here, works hard and sees his children go onto a higher
level,'' Mr. Pinter, a medical device salesman, said of Mr. Bains.

The assembly meetings have also taught the delegates, many of whom are still
striving newcomers, much about how the city works. Ms. Naderi said she had never
known the city had a Commission on Human Rights that investigates complaints of
discrimination, nor that the Police Department had a community relations
department.

''Just yesterday, an Afghan woman called me to say she's being exploited by her
employer at a supermarket,'' she said, saying that the woman was getting paid
less than the market's Korean workers. ''Now I know about the human rights
commission, we're going to call it and see if we can do anything for her.''

In an interview, Ms. Marshall said her idea for the assembly very much had the
United Nations in mind, particularly because the world body held its first
meetings in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in 1946. Another inspiration was her
own cosmopolitan life, including her Guyanese heritage, her attendance at a camp
run by a largely Jewish settlement house in the Bronx and participation in
battles in northern Queens for school integration.

In recent years, the borough's increasingly polyglot character persuaded her
that a way was needed to introduce people of various ethnicities to one another,
she said.

She made sure that the assembly also represented all of its neighborhoods, so
there are two members from each of Queens' 14 community districts. The mix is
spiced with 22 alumni from the assembly's first term, like Ms. Bowes and Mr.
Khuzami, and an advisory committee of 14 professionals in communal relations.

One of them, Madhulika S. Khandelwal, an Indian immigrant who directs the
Asian/American Center at Queens College, asked the delegates to describe their
insights into other groups. Bess DeBethama, a black delegate from Cambria
Heights, told of how simply talking to each other eased tensions between the
black residents of Cambria Heights and the Hasidim visiting the grave of the
Lubavitcher rebbe, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson.

At the time of his funeral at Montefiore Cemetery in 1994, she said, black
residents could not appreciate why tens of thousands of Hasidim were converging
on their neighborhood, and why they were being asked to show ID's to enter their
own streets.

This year on July 10, the anniversary in the Jewish calendar of the grand
rebbe's death, thousands of people visited the grave without serious tensions,
she said, because any complaints were cleared up by ''my good friend,'' Rabbi
Abba Refson, who was sitting across the table.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top left, John Y. Park, Boomie Pinter, Adjora
Gzifa, Harbachan Singh and Alef Mohamed are among the members of the Queens
General Assembly. Center, the map of Queens with the flags of some of the
nationalities represented in the assembly. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Pastime Is Out of Bounds in Danbury

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Volleyball and Violations; Pg.
1

LENGTH: 1015 words

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn., July 28


Six weeks after more than 1,000 immigrants marched down Main Street to demand
respect from the mayor, he is taking steps to stop their sometimes raucous
volleyball games, which officials say are occasions for illegal enterprise.

The evening games, a passion among Danbury's growing population of Ecuadorean
immigrants, sometimes draw more than 100 people to backyards in otherwise quiet
residential neighborhoods. After a nighttime sweep by code enforcement officers
on July 23, city workers issued cease-and-desist orders for seven properties.

''What we shut down was seven illegal businesses that happened to have
volleyball as their draw for selling food and alcohol,'' Sean P. Hearty, the
city's permit officer, said of the backyard games.

Mr. Hearty and other city officials said they also found overcrowded apartments,
cars parked illegally on neighboring yards and fire and building code
violations, including nets rising more than 20 feet over backyard fences -- to
keep the volleyball in the yard -- and extension cords buried below ground to
power lights for night games.

While the sweeps that Saturday night were a first, they reflected persistent
tension in a city that has become a battleground in the national debate over
illegal immigration in smaller cities and suburbs.

In April, Mayor Mark D. Boughton asked the state to seek federal permission to
deputize state police officers to enforce federal immigration laws in the city.
On June 12, a coalition of Ecuadorean immigrants led a mile-long march on a
stretch of Main Street whose storefronts, once empty, have been transformed with
new Hispanic and Brazilian businesses.

The goal, march organizers said, was to demand respect for the way immigrants
have helped revitalize the downtown area. Many immigrant workers live in the
city, often in houses that have been converted into apartments, and work during
the day in construction jobs in the suburbs of Fairfield County.

The week before the march, Leonard C. Boyle, commissioner of the State
Department of Public Safety, denied the mayor's request to deputize the state
police, saying the city and state had other means of enforcement.

Even before Mr. Boyle rejected the request, Mayor Boughton said the city would
find other ways to deal with overcrowded housing, day laborers looking for work
in the streets and, in particular, the volleyball games that spill across
neighborhoods and draw complaints.

Critics, including some marchers, have said Mr. Boughton is biased against
immigrants and using the issue for political gain. In an interview on Thursday
at City Hall, the mayor, a Republican who announced his candidacy for a third
term on July 25, rejected the claims and said he wanted to make sure ''the issue
doesn't get driven down to a racial issue.''

As he has in the past, he blamed a ''failed federal policy'' that leaves local
officials with few tools to deal with the pressures of immigration at the
neighborhood level. Mr. Boughton said he had spoken with officials in other
states, including California and New York, and that he hoped to create a
coalition of mayors who would work toward immigration reform.

For now, Danbury has responded with stricter code enforcement.

The city's Common Council is considering adopting an ordinance that would give
the police greater power to control ''repetitive outdoor activities.''

The mayor said the volleyball sweeps were ''an interim measure'' conducted by a
new unified neighborhood inspection team he had formed.

Working with Danbury police officers, the team, which includes enforcement
officers from the city's fire, building, zoning and health and housing
divisions, cited seven private homes and apartment houses. City officials said
they visited properties during the games, identified themselves, asked
homeowners if they could enter the properties, then spoke casually with people
who, for example, told them they had paid 50 cents for a beer and $5 for a plate
of chicken or pork.

''We're not targeting a certain demographic,'' said Timothy J. Bunting, the
assistant zoning enforcement officer. ''We're targeting problem areas.''

Mr. Hearty, the permit officer, said no arrests were made, nor were fines
issued. City officials have said in the past that backyard volleyball games have
involved gambling and drugs, though no such activities were cited in the recent
sweep.

''Our whole thing was, 'Did you realize this was a violation?''' Mr. Hearty
said. ''They were so misinformed that they came in the next day and asked me for
an alcohol license.''

One property cited belongs to Efrain Romero, an Ecuadorean immigrant who works
in pool construction during the day. In the evening, his large lot is often
filled with young men drinking beer and playing volleyball on two courts, with
nets and balls ordered from Ecuador.

In an interview in May, Mr. Romero said most of the men were probably illegal
immigrants, but that he was legal. He said his house was divided into four
apartment units and that he had done some of the construction himself.

On July 23, the city cited him for ''change of site plan without approval,'' for
having an unregistered truck stored illegally, for having fencing that is too
high and for selling food and liquor on the property during volleyball games.

In a telephone interview after the sweep, Mr. Romero said he told a city
official he was not selling food or alcohol.

''He said I can play volleyball a little bit, but don't make it too noisy and
don't sell any stuff,'' he said. ''I told him I used to sell juice. We're not
going to do it no more.''

His next-door neighbor, Richard Erhardt, said he was relieved that the city had
cited the property.

Mr. Erhardt, who is 71 and lives with his ailing wife, said that they have not
sat on their sun porch in three years because of the volleyball games and that
the balls often bounced against their house.

''If it snows this deep, they shovel off the snow and they're out there playing
volleyball,'' he said. ''Rain, thunder and lightning, they're playing volleyball
-- until this weekend.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Erhardt, 71, in his yard yesterday. He said he and his
wife no longer sit on their porch because of volleyball games played by
immigrants next door. Officials issued cease-and-desist orders recently at seven
residences in Danbury, Conn. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York
Times)(pg. B1)
 John McGowan dressed in America's colors to protest a march for immigrants'
rights on Main Street in Danbury, Conn., on June 12. (Photo by Thomas McDonald
for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Hundreds Of Gang Members Arrested

BYLINE: By Eric Lipton (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 90 words


Federal officials, intensifying a crackdown on gangs, are moving to deport 506
gang members who were arrested in the last two weeks on immigration charges.
They are also pursuing criminal charges against 76 other gang members
apprehended for more serious offenses. The arrests included 61 in Boston, 42 in
Birmingham, Ala., and 23 in Los Angeles, Department of Homeland Security
officials said. The suspects came from more than 54 street gangs, including Mara
Salvatrucha, a Central American group known broadly as MS-13.   Eric Lipton
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Midwest: Illinois: Immigrant Accused Of Nazi Past

BYLINE: By Gretchen Ruethling (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 105 words


The government accused an 86-year-old Ukrainian immigrant of being part of a
Nazi-run police unit that terrorized Jews and sent them to death camps in World
War II. The Justice Department, asking a federal judge in Chicago to revoke the
citizenship of the immigrant, Osyp Firishchak, 86, said he concealed his service
to Nazi Germany when he applied for a visa and for citizenship. James Maher III,
a lawyer for Mr. Firishchak, said that his client had not been a member of the
police unit and that there was nothing to suggest he had been dishonest on his
visa application, The Associated Press reported.   Gretchen Ruethling (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              403 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Old and New World Met in a Camera Flash

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1147 words


If Peter Mesenholler expected to find the misery of the tired, the poor, the
wretched emanating from a few photographs displayed in the Ellis Island
Immigration Museum the day he first visited in 1996, he was in for a surprise.
''I immediately got stunned by the dignity, the pride, the self-confidence,''
Mr. Mesenholler, a cultural anthropologist specializing in early still
photography and immigration studies, said by phone from his home in Cologne,
Germany. ''It was totally different from the usual image we have of the huddled
masses.''

Mr. Mesenholler had alighted on the photography of Augustus Frederick Sherman, a
registry clerk in Ellis Island's immigration division in the early 20th century.
In the hours when he wasn't determining the fate of some of the thousands of
immigrants disembarking daily in New York Harbor from foreign vessels, he was
coaxing the hopeful to open their trunks, don their finest attire and level
their gaze at his camera.

Some 75 photographs of these immigrants are on view at the Ellis Island museum
in ''Augustus Frederick Sherman: Ellis Island Portraits 1905-1920.'' Organized
by Mr. Mesenholler and Diana Edkins, director of exhibitions and limited-edition
prints for the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit photography organization, the
show coincides with the group's publication of a book of the same title with 40
more images. The show continues through Sept. 6 before traveling to 16 sites in
the United States and abroad.

Understanding Mr. Mesenholler's fascination -- obsession, really -- requires no
great stretch of the imagination. As they hover disconcertingly between art and
artifact, Sherman's portraits are powerful in their directness yet almost
antiseptic in their disaffection.

Dressed gallantly in their native costumes, solemn families and individuals
announce themselves to their new world with no apologies. A Romanian shepherd
sits with hand on hip, his decoratively embroidered sheepskin coat opened to
reveal a lush pelt of curly wool. A Ruthenian, from Ukraine, stares out with
pale eyes, her neck encircled by loops of iridescent beads above a peasant
blouse and shearling vest. Two men from Borana, in Ethiopia, with sculptural
hair ornaments sticking straight up from their heads display their shields; the
woman between them hides her hair beneath a wrap.

Striking though they are, the portraits are only nominally personal, annotated
occasionally by simple captions but mostly left unexplained: ''Eleazar
Kaminetzko -- 26 -- Russian Hebrew SS Hamburg June 23 -- 1914. Vegetarian,''
Sherman wrote on the photograph of a young man with enormous eyes and long,
glossy curls. Only a few details, like ''Col. Helen R. Bastedo + Osman Lewis,
13, Belgian Stowaway,'' make up the 1921 caption for a boy with floppy hair and
Sunday suit, his arm around the waist of an unrelated woman who protectively
cups his hand. And then, with fedora, spectacles and pale smudge of mustache,
there is Mary Johnson, 50, from Canada, who, Sherman wrote, ''came as 'Frank
Woodhull''' on Oct. 4, 1908, and ''dressed 15 yrs in men's clothes.''

Information on Sherman is nearly as scant. He was born on July 9, 1865, in Lynn,
Pa., Mr. Mesenholler said, and was a member of the Episcopal Church; he was
hired by the executive division of the Bureau of Immigration at Ellis Island in
1892, eight years after moving to New York, and moved up through the ranks.

''We've been looking for personnel files throughout the United States with all
the official records and didn't find anything,'' Mr. Mesenholler said. ''Up to
now, Sherman is a question mark in a way.''

Mr. Mesenholler speculates that as a higher-level officer, Sherman had
unfettered access to the island's detention area, where immigrants were held for
a day, a week or a few months after routine questioning raised doubts about
whether they should be allowed in the country.

''The technical procedures in those days were very difficult,'' he said. ''You
had these huge tripod cameras and the exposure took how many seconds, and you
had to get the lighting just right and have your subjects sit perfectly still.
And with an average of about 5,000 people each day coming through Ellis Island
at peak times, it must have been quite an undertaking.''

In an essay in the book, Mr. Mesenholler writes that historians view these
images as ''one of the most substantial photographic records of that period of
mass immigration.''

Capturing his subjects against mostly plain backgrounds in the native finery
they would soon discard for American clothing, Sherman simultaneously documented
the richness of their heritage while labeling them specimens for anthropologic
scrutiny. ''Sherman considered these people as ethnic types, being
representative of the new American species,'' said Mr. Mesenholler, who called
on a broad swath of colleagues to help him identify the origins of various
costumes and discern the differences in, say, the headdresses of Protestant and
Catholic women from the Netherlands.

In addition to Sherman's Dutch, Italian, Romanian, Moroccan and Finnish
prototypes, there are also the ''oddities'' -- the giants and dwarves, the
microcephalics, the physically deformed -- he cataloged in later years.

Still, the Aperture Foundation's Ms. Edkins said, the photographer ''didn't
impose his own feeling on these people. He really showed it in a very
stripped-down documentarylike way.''

Such images may hold particular interest today ''because immigration is so much
in our mind,'' she said. ''You know, we shed those things, those differences.
We're all jeans and Gap and now there's a commonality.''

Roy Glerum of Totowa, N.J., the son of one of those Ellis Island immigrants,
said the reality of the melting pot hit him at the exhibition's opening in June.
There he saw his father's 12-year-old eyes peering out at him from Sherman's
1907 portrait of his Dutch grandparents and their 11 children. Pinned to their
chests was the number of the ship that would take them back to the Netherlands
if they failed to pass inspection.

Mr. Glerum's grandfather, Dingenis, had sold his lobster boat to finance the
family's journey. Growing up in New Jersey, Mr. Glerum's father, Francois, soon
known as Frank, took odd jobs running a bakery wagon before apprenticing as a
shop boy at the Manhattan Rubber Company and working his way into an
electrician's position, from which he retired 50 years later.

''My dad talked very, very little about earlier life,'' Mr. Glerum, 78, said.
''He didn't want us to speak Dutch. He felt that being in America was the
greatest thing and that we never needed to learn about the rest.''

His recent museum visit was his first to Ellis Island, Mr. Glerum said. ''I was
really overwhelmed,'' he added. ''Not knowing the language, giving up everything
to come over here -- I just thought they must have had great courage.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigrants who posed for an Ellis Island registry clerk's
camera included, above, a Ruthenian, from Ukraine
and above right, a woman from Guadeloupe, a Romanian piper and a Hungarian
child. Their images are part of a book and a museum show. (Photographs courtesy
of the Statue of Liberty National Monument, the Ellis Island Immigration Museum
and the Aperture Foundation)(pg. B7)
 Augustus Frederick Sherman, above, circa 1905. He photographed newcomers like
the Glerum family, including young Frank, sixth from left, whose son viewed the
museum show. (Photographs courtesy of the Statue of Liberty National Monument,
the Ellis Island Immigration Museum and the Aperture Foundation)(pg. B13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              404 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 9, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Lord Looks in Illustrative Ways

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; INK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 431 words


THE hard oak pews and stern holy pictures of St. Jerome's Roman Catholic Church
in the South Bronx were enough to make any kid squirm through Sunday Mass. Then
there was the eye, the great sky-blue eye of God, painted on the ceiling vault
about 60 feet overhead.

''We were told that 'God sees everything,' which is a little bit scary,'' said
the Rev. John Grange, a grandson of Irish immigrants who often had the fidgets
under that eye but went on to become a priest and eventually pastor of St.
Jerome's. ''The idea that was pounded into us was that God watches you and when
you do something wrong, he'll catch you.''

The all-seeing eye has special power wherever it appears -- on the back of a
dollar bill, on the twig and yarn figures that Huichol Indians of Mexico call
the ''ojo de Dios,'' in the Hebrew letter ayin, which means eye and can stand
for the power of God. For the children and grandchildren of the Irish immigrants
who reached deep into their pockets more than a century ago to help build St.
Jerome's, the blue eye also meant that God was like them.

But the South Bronx changed. The Irish moved up and out, and the people who
replaced them were poorer, the city meaner.

When Father Grange became pastor of St. Jerome's in 1976, the church was nearly
empty. Rumors floated that it might close. Then one December, when things looked
bleakest, Mexican laborers who had moved into the neighborhood came to the
rectory asking for services to honor the Virgin of Guadalupe, the patron saint
of Mexico.

Today, most of St. Jerome's parishioners are Mexican, including Celestina Cruz,
an older woman who cooks for Father Grange.

He once asked her: What color is God's eye?

''Color cafe,'' she told him. Brown.

At the end of June, during a $1 million renovation of the church, Father Grange
had the eye of God painted brown. There were no Irish left to object. The only
Mullinses and McDonnells remaining in the church are in the dedications of
stained glass windows.

Faith has always meant believing what cannot be seen. Father Grange hopes that a
brown-eyed God at the highest point of the church will help his flock see what
they already believe. This eye will not be vengeful like the one that scared
him.

He intends to tell the members of his flock that this God ''is watching them to
take care of them.''

This proud son of the Bronx does not mind losing one more connection to his
Irish past. His own eyes are a bit cloudy now, behind thick glasses. They are
neither blue nor brown.

Rather, like an Irish stew, they have a little of everything thrown in.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The freshly painted brown eye of God, formerly blue, at St.
Jerome's Church. For the Rev. John Grange and his parishioners, the eye has
offered hope in a changing South Bronx landscape. (Photographs by Ozier
Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              405 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 12, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

BYLINE: By Laurel Graeber

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Family Fare; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 939 words



Playing New Arrivals On Different Shores

  American children going to summer camp today don't carry trunks like those of
immigrants 100 years ago. But their emotional baggage is much the same:
insecurity coupled with a desire for independence; a need to conform while still
asserting their own identities; and a sense of being a stranger in a land with
new rules and customs.

City Lights Youth Theater is exploring those similarities this weekend in ''Lost
& Found,'' this year's Origins Project. An annual collaboration between the
theater and a New York City historical organization, the Origins Project
involves the troupe's teenage actors in researching, writing and performing a
play that illuminates the experiences of their forebears. But whereas previous
productions have often been set in the past, ''Lost & Found,'' created in
partnership with the American Jewish Historical Society, unfolds at Lakeside, a
fictional arts camp.

''Putting the teenagers in a summer camp where they were strangers and had to
work through their differences became a metaphor for what the Jewish immigrants
had gone through,'' said Kent Jackman, the playwright overseeing the project. He
and the director, Damaris Webb, have also tried to establish parallels between
the production and those of Yiddish theater. ''Domestic conflicts were an
important theme in Yiddish theater,'' Mr. Jackman said.

As a recent rehearsal revealed, ''Lost & Found'' is filled with divided
loyalties; one girl is even lured into being an accomplice to a crime. The play
also includes direct references to the past. The action is punctuated with music
from the campers' summer production, ''Parade,'' the show about anti-Semitism
and the 1915 lynching of Leo Frank, a Jew. One camper discusses Molly Picon, the
Yiddish-theater star. A backdrop of projected photographs will include
historical images.

But one aspect of the drama is timeless. As Mr. Jackman said, both campers and
immigrants had the same task: ''trying to establish a home away from home.''

''Lost & Found,'' today at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. and Sunday at 1 and 5 p.m. at the
Center for Jewish History, Forchheimer Auditorium, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron
district. Tickets: $12; students and 65+, $8. Reservations: (212)262-0200.

Once Upon a Time

  Tomorrow a woodsy area of upstate New York will be filled with more than the
usual summer crowd. The visitors will include a chatty turtle, shadowy figures
from China, fairy tale rappers, a reincarnation of Louisa May Alcott and ghosts.

All will be enthusiastic participants in the fifth annual Mohegan Colony
Storytelling and Music Festival, a marathon on the banks of Lake Mohegan in
Crompond, N.Y.

''With theater, there's always a fourth wall,'' said Judith Heineman, a Chicago
storyteller and the festival coordinator. ''With storytelling, the lights are
often up, and there's a lot of audience interaction.''

Ms. Heineman, for instance, will tell ''The Talkative Turtle,'' a tale from
India. A child will play the title character, which flies with the help of
geese. ''I find a little child who's light and willing to be lifted,'' Ms.
Heineman said. The story explains why the turtle has cracks in its shell.

Among the other performers are Teatro Imperfecto, a duo that turns tales into
minimusicals; Lonnie Harrington, who weaves the African-American and Seminole
threads of his heritage; Ron Sopyla, who designs shadow puppets; and Miriam
Reed, who impersonates Alcott.

After an afternoon of stories (the site is also open for picnics and swimming),
the festival will have an intermission, followed by a 7 p.m. bonfire at the
beach. ''We're going to tell ghost stories,'' Ms. Heineman said. ''They will be
mild early in the evening. We'll save the grisly ones for the end.'' The
spirits, by the way, won't be daunted by bad weather. If it rains, the finale
will move indoors.

Storytelling and Music Festival, tomorrow from 1 to 10 p.m. at the Mohegan
Colony, Baron De Hirsch Road (off Townsend Road, between Routes 6 and 202),
Crompond, N.Y. Tickets, day or evening only: $10; children, $3. Full day: $15
and $5; families (two adults and any number of children), $25. Information:
(914)528-1446.


  Star From a Star

  Another space alien has landed, and unlike the ones in ''War of the Worlds,''
he's not interested in colonizing the planet. Hailing from the sun and
resembling a drop of melted butter, he is described as part feline. (This may
finally explain why cats toast themselves on windowsills, even in heat waves.)

His name is Gustafer Yellowgold, and Morgan Taylor is introducing him in
Brooklyn and Manhattan. ''Gustafer Yellowgold's Wide Wild World'' is a half-hour
live, narrated concert, including a screen on which Mr. Taylor's lyrics and
fanciful illustrations are projected.

Mr. Taylor, part of a small band, offers ballads that might be described as
gentle folk. In a slightly plaintive voice that sometimes reminded me of the
singing of that other, unrelated Taylor -- James -- he depicts Gustafer's
adventures, which include a dragon, an eel, a pterodactyl and a green bee.

Although several songs have a lullabylike quality, some, like ''Your Eel'' and
''Pterodactyl Tuxedo,'' are more rollicking. Small children at a recent
performance particularly enjoyed ''I Jump on Cake,'' which describes Gustafer's
habit of plunging -- literally -- into desserts.

''Gustafer Yellowgold's Wide Wild World,'' tomorrow and Aug. 27 at 3 p.m. at the
Community Bookstore and Cafe, 143 Seventh Avenue, near Carroll Street, Park
Slope, Brooklyn, (718)783-3075. Suggested donation: $5. Full performance
schedule: gustaferyellowgold.com.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Grace Corcoran, left, and Coralys Carpio in ''Lost & Found.''
(Photo by Renee Dumouchel)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              406 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 14, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Islamic Alienation

BYLINE: By David Rieff.

David Rieff, a contributing writer, is the author, most recently, of ''At the
Point of a Gun: Democratic Dreams and Armed Intervention.''

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 08-14-05; Pg.
11

LENGTH: 988 words


Even if they produced no other positive result, the attacks on the London
Underground have compelled Europeans of all faiths to think with new urgency
about the Continent's Muslim minority. Such a reckoning was long overdue. Some
left-wing politicians, like London's mayor, Ken Livingstone, have chosen to
emphasize the proximate causes of Muslim anger, focusing on the outrage widely
felt in Islamic immigrant communities over the war in Iraq and the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. But the harsh reality is that the crisis in
relations between the European mainstream and the Islamic diaspora has far
deeper roots, consoling as it might be to pretend otherwise.

Indeed, the news could scarcely be worse. What Europeans are waking up to is a
difficult truth: the immigrants who perform the Continent's menial jobs, and, as
is often forgotten, began coming to Europe in the 1950's because European
governments and businesses encouraged their mass migration, are profoundly
alienated from European society for reasons that have little to do with the
Middle East and everything to do with Europe. This alienation is cultural,
historical and above all religious, as much if not more than it is political.
Immigrants who were drawn to Europe because of the Continent's economic success
are in rebellion against the cultural, social and even psychological sources of
that success.

In a sense, Europe's bad fortune is that Islam is in crisis. Imagine that
Mexican Catholicism was in a similar state, and that a powerful, well-financed
minority of anti-modern purists was doing its most successful proselytizing
among Mexican immigrants in places like Los Angeles, Phoenix and Chicago, above
all among the discontented, underemployed youth of the barrios. The predictable,
perhaps even the inevitable, result would be the same sort of estrangement
between Hispanics and the American mainstream.

Whatever the roots of the present troubles, what is undeniable is that many
immigrant Muslims and their children remain unreconciled to their situation in
Europe. Some find their traditional religious values scorned, while others find
themselves alienated by the independence of women, with all its implications for
the future of the ''traditional'' Muslim family. In response, many have turned
to the most obscurantist interpretation of the Islamic faith as a salve. At the
fringes of the diaspora, some have turned to violence.

So far, at least, neither the carrot nor the stick has worked. Politicians talk
of tighter immigration controls. Yet the reality is that a Europe in demographic
freefall needs more, not fewer, immigrants if it is to maintain its prosperity.
Tony Blair just proposed new laws allowing the deportation of radical mullahs
and the shutting of mosques and other sites associated with Islamic extremism.
But given the sheer size of the Muslim population in England and throughout the
rest of Europe, the security services are always going to be playing catch-up.
Working together, and in a much more favorable political and security context,
French and Spanish authorities have, after more than 20 years, been unable to
put an end to the terrorism of the Basque separatist group ETA. And there are at
least twice as many Muslims in France as there are Basques in Spain.

At the same time, it is difficult to see how the extremists' grievances can ever
be placated by conciliatory gestures. It is doubtful that the British
government's proposed ban on blasphemy against Islam and other religions will
have a demonstrable effect. (What would have happened to Salman Rushdie had such
a ban been in force when ''The Satanic Verses'' was published?) Meanwhile, the
French government has tried to create an ''official'' state-sanctioned French
Islam. This approach may be worth the effort, but the chances of success are
uncertain. It will require the enthusiastic participation of an Islamic
religious establishment whose influence over disaffected youth is unclear. What
seems clearer is that European governments have very little time and nowhere
near enough knowledge about which members of the Islamic community really are
''preachers of hate'' and which, however unpalatable their views, are part of
the immigrant mainstream.

The multicultural fantasy in Europe -- its eclipse can be seen most poignantly
in Holland, that most self-definedly liberal of all European countries -- was
that, in due course, assuming that the proper resources were committed and
benevolence deployed, Islamic and other immigrants would eventually become
liberals. As it's said, they would come to ''accept'' the values of their new
countries. It was never clear how this vision was supposed to coexist with
multiculturalism's other main assumption, which was that group identity should
be maintained. But by now that question is largely academic: the European vision
of multiculturalism, in all its simultaneous good will and self-congratulation,
is no longer sustainable. And most Europeans know it. What they don't know is
what to do next. If the broad-brush anti-Muslim discourse of Jean-Marie Le Pen's
National Front in France or the Vlaams Belang Party in Belgium entered the
political mainstream, it would only turn the Islamic diaspora in Europe into the
fifth column that, for the moment, it certainly is not. But Europeans can hardly
accept an immigrant veto over their own mores, whether those mores involve
women's rights or, for that matter, the right to blaspheme, which the Dutch
filmmaker Theo van Gogh so bravely asserted -- and died for.

Figuring out how to prevent Europe's multicultural reality from becoming a war
of all against all is the challenge that confronts the Continent. It makes all
of Europe's other problems, from the economy to the euro to the sclerosis of
social democracy, seem trivial by comparison. Unfortunately, unlike those
challenges, this one is existential and urgent and has no obvious answer.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by James Whitlow Delano
 Redux)Chart: ''COUNTING FAITH''Percentage of Muslims in E.U.-member
populationsGreece   1.3%Denmark   2Slovenia   2.4Britain   2.7Germany
3.7Austria   4.2The Netherlands   5.5France   5-10Cyprus   18World   19.9
Source: C.I.A. World Factbook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              407 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Invisible to Most, Women Line Up for Day Labor

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words


The women are not noticed by the weekday morning crowds that rush past Eighth
Avenue and 37th Street, in the heart of Manhattan's fashion district. They
arrive in twos and threes after 8 a.m., shrinking against the buildings on both
sides of the avenue, until scores of them are waiting, small, dark-haired
Mexicans, Ecuadoreans, Hondurans.

By noon they have vanished. In swift, discreet sidewalk negotiations, perhaps
half have been hired for a day's work at the minimum wage or less in some of the
neighborhood's last struggling garment factories. The rest have given up until
tomorrow.

A few miles away in Williamsburg, commuters on the busy Brooklyn-Queens
Expressway are equally oblivious to the similar scene unfolding on an overpass
above them. There, the work at stake is $8-an-hour housecleaning, and those
vying for a day's scrubbing, mainly for Hasidic homemakers, stand in a crude
ascending hierarchy of employer preference: Mexican and Central American women
in their 30's at the back, Polish immigrant women in their 50's and 60's in the
middle, and young Polish students with a command of English at the head of the
line.

At a time when male day laborers have become the most public and contentious
face of economic immigration to the United States, these two rare female
shape-ups have doubled in size almost unobserved in recent years. Their growth
reflects a larger overlooked reality: Women make up 44 percent of the nation's
low-wage immigrant work force, and worldwide, studies show, more and more women
are migrating for work.

Often invisible and undercounted, experts say, female economic migrants are an
increasing presence, especially in big cities like New York, where the demand is
not for men to pick lettuce or process poultry, but for women to pick up the
scraps of a collapsed manufacturing sector, or to serve in the vast underground
economy of domestic service.

Although more women across the country are showing up in day-labor hiring halls,
often run by grass-roots labor groups, experts say that these two female
shape-ups may well be the only significant ones of their kind in the nation --
places where women are willing to put their personal safety in jeopardy for a
few hours of work.

''What else is there to do if you have nothing to eat?'' asked Rosario Jocha,
49, still standing on Eighth Avenue at 11 a.m. on a recent Wednesday. She said
she had recently grabbed a day's work cutting threads from jackets even when the
employer, a Chinese immigrant subcontractor, insisted he could not pay more than
$5.75 an hour, 25 cents below the state minimum wage. ''I've been here 11 years,
and I still haven't found a stable, steady job.''

At both locations, some of the women waiting for work had been in the country as
little as a few months; others, like Ms. Jocha, a Queens resident from Ecuador,
were old-timers who spoke of better jobs lost when small-business employers
could not pay rising rent. On Eighth Avenue, merchants said that 100 to 150
women regularly sought work six mornings a week year round -- double or triple
the number when the intersection first emerged as an informal female hiring site
about six years ago.

Yet May Chen, a vice president of Unite, the garment workers' union, whose
headquarters is only a dozen blocks away, said she was unaware of the shape-up's
existence until she was asked about it for this article. And Aaron Adams, a
veteran garment center landlord who passes by every day, said he had assumed the
women standing there ''were just shooting the breeze.''

Rhacel Salazar Parrenas, a sociologist who has written extensively about the
feminization of migration, said she was not surprised. ''The space that these
women occupy, the public spaces in the city, are just like fleeting moments,''
she said. ''They don't really have a place in the city that's visible, so it's
easy to ignore them.''

Even the discussion of legal guest worker proposals in Congress centers on male
migrants, she said. But though nationally men account for about two-thirds of
labor migration among illegal immigrants, primarily because of agricultural
demand, she said, global patterns indicate that women are easily half the
immigrant workers flowing to large metropolitan areas like New York.

Ms. Parrenas and other researchers find that women who migrate for work are
likely to be single mothers supporting children in their native countries.
Compared with their male counterparts, they earn less, despite higher levels of
education, according to a 2002 study of the United States' low-wage immigrant
work force by the Urban Institute, a research group in Washington, which
estimated that two million foreign-born women made less than the minimum wage.
Yet women are also more likely to remain in America, and they send home a higher
proportion of their earnings.

Unvarnished lessons in global supply, demand and division play out at both New
York hiring sites.

''We never talk to the Latinas -- sometimes they agree to work for less,'' said
Teresa, a 53-year-old Polish widow who, like many of the 60 women waiting for
cleaning work near Marcy and Division Avenues in Williamsburg on a recent Friday
morning, would give only her first name.

At the other end of the curved concrete abutment, Maria, 35, from Ecuador, gave
a shrug. ''They pay them more,'' she complained, as a woman in Hasidic dress
passed by the Spanish-speaking group and selected a tall young Polish woman.
''It's just that they're white.''

Even among the Poles, immigration complicates the pecking order. Some older
women won green cards after years as live-in maids for sponsors, and boast in
broken English of children in college. Other women lack papers, or shuttle on
temporary work visas between their struggling families in rural Poland and
spartan, overpriced rooms in Brooklyn. And in summer, just when demand declines
because of employer vacations, they now face growing numbers of young Polish
women working illegally on tourist visas while living rent-free with Brooklyn
relatives.

''They don't want babushkas,'' complained Zofia, a 50-year-old mother of five,
as a young Hasidic man led Justyne, a 24-year-old Polish student, to his S.U.V.

Not all employers had the same preferences, however, and most, like Rifky Kohn,
28, a pregnant mother of four, were on foot. At midday, with the Sabbath
approaching, she gladly hired a Polish woman in her late 60's.

''She looks more experienced,'' explained Mrs. Kohn.

Rosa Yumbla, who supports four children in Ecuador, recently skipped a day on
the overpass to address a national conference of day labor organizers at New
York University Law School. She spoke at the urging of the Latin American
Workers Project, an advocacy group in Brooklyn.

''We suffer the changing weather throughout the year, the heat of the sun and
cold in winter, because where we wait to be picked up is on the corner,'' Ms.
Yumbla said in Spanish to an audience that included the mayor's commissioner for
immigrant affairs. ''Help us secure a space where we can be safer.''

For now, the women depend on one another and their own instincts for safety. On
a recent Wednesday, when a man on Eighth Avenue approached a young Mexican woman
with a vague description of a part-time job in a store at the Port Authority, an
older woman drew close and signaled disapproval. The man, who gave his name as
Victor Miranda and his age as 55, then turned to Josefa Limas, 32, who arrived
from Puebla, Mexico, only six months ago.

She, too, shook her head. ''Sometimes they'll just end up taking you somewhere
else,'' she said, describing another woman's close call the previous day. ''An
Indian man took her to an elevator and wouldn't let her out. He came over and
tried to grab her. She pressed an emergency button and got away.''

Still, the pressure to take chances can be strong. Nellie, 32, who shares a room
in the Bronx, pulled out a picture of the three children she left four years ago
with her sister in rural Ecuador, in an effort to earn money for the heart
operation needed by her son, the youngest.

''The little I make here I send to him,'' she said. ''Many times I just want to
go to be with him, but I don't have the money to do so. It gives me a desperate
feeling.''

On this day she counted herself lucky: she had been called back for a second
day's work at $6 an hour, she said. And leaving the line, she melted into the
crowd.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigrant women gathering near an intersection in Brooklyn,
waiting for a day's work cleaning houses. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York
Times)(pg. A1)
 One woman approached a group of day laborers in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and
hired one. Then another, pushing a stroller, did the same. (Photographs by Angel
Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              408 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Wrongfully Convicted Man Is Deported After Release

BYLINE: By David W. Chen (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 123 words


David Wong, an illegal Chinese immigrant whose 1986 murder conviction was
overturned by a state appellate court last year, was deported last week to Hong
Kong. Mr. Wong, 42, had been a cause celebre for Asian-American activists who
were convinced that he had not killed a fellow inmate in an upstate prison,
where he had been serving time on an armed robbery conviction.

After fresh evidence emerged casting doubt on his guilt, an appellate court
overturned the conviction in October, and a Clinton County judge dismissed the
charges in December. Mr. Wong arrived in Hong Kong last Wednesday, and has been
trying to adjust to life as a free man for the first time in two decades, said
one of his lawyers, Jaykumar Menon.   David W. Chen (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              409 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Better Ways to Control Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 150 words



o the Editor:

How do David Brooks's suggestions alleviate any of the problems his hypothetical
working-class guy experiences because of unchecked immigration?

This hypothetical fellow's wages would remain depressed. The school system and
medical system (not to mention the penal system) would still be stressed.

Mr. Brooks suggests that opening up ''legal, controllable channels through which
labor can flow in an aboveground, orderly way'' will eliminate many of the
problems related to immigration.

This line of reasoning was used in 1986 when the last immigration amnesty was
passed. Immigration-related problems have only worsened since then.

The issue is purely one of numbers. The volume of immigrants (legal and illegal)
has created major problems for average Americans. Mr. Brooks's ''sensible''
immigration policy guarantees more of the same.

Roger Rice
North Brunswick, N.J., Aug. 14, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              410 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Deliveryman Relives the Fear Of 81-Hour Ordeal in Elevator

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words


Even in New York, the city of eight million unfinished stories, the one about
the Chinese deliveryman stuck in a Bronx elevator for 81 hours has lingered in
collective memory. But for Ming Kuang Chen, the deliveryman, the ordeal never
really ended.

In the first sit-down interview since he was belatedly rescued in April and then
promptly dropped from sight, Mr. Chen spoke yesterday about the lasting results
of his confinement: his crippling fear of the dark, his terror of immigration
authorities, and the stomach pains that have plagued him since he was trapped in
a brightly lighted 4-by-6 1/2-foot box without food or water, thinking that he
was going to die.

''I'm afraid to go anywhere dark now,'' said Mr. Chen, 35, speaking through an
interpreter in the office of City Councilman John C. Liu, who has become one of
the few people he trusts. ''I have to get about in the daylight hours.'' As for
elevators, he added, he has yet to enter one alone.

Now, after months of moving from place to place, mainly out of state, to avoid
being picked up as an illegal immigrant, he said he had returned to New York for
one day, for medical help.

Psychiatrists call such symptoms classic hallmarks of post-traumatic stress
disorder, and spoke of barriers to treatment like language, culture and money.
But for Mr. Chen, who is deeply indebted for his passage to the United States
and supports a wife and son in his home village in the Fujian province of China,
his illness mainly represents a disastrous obstacle to delivery work in the
nationwide network of Chinese restaurants where illegal immigrants like him are
dispatched from New York to toil night and day, six days a week.

Last spring, aspects of his elevator ordeal came to seem strangely symbolic of
the status of illegal immigrants in New York -- omnipresent in the everyday
economy of shrimp-fried-rice deliveries, yet virtually invisible in their legal
no-man's land. A security camera had been operating in the elevator car the
whole time that he was stuck there, even as the police, fearing the worst, were
conducting an aggressive door-to-door search of the Bronx apartment tower and
sending scuba divers into a nearby reservoir to search for his body.

To Dr. Lynne Tan, a Montefiore Medical Center psychiatrist who has helped
arrange treatment for Mr. Chen at no fee, there is also wider symbolism in his
traumatic experience of helplessness in the elevator, where his cries went
unheard, misunderstood or unheeded for so long.

In that sense, it is the immigrant experience at its worst. ''He can't speak
English,'' she said. ''He was trying to speak through the intercom and couldn't
communicate. This is to be completely helpless and not to be able to ask for
help.''

Notwithstanding the lights in the elevator -- an express that had become stuck
between the third and fourth floors of a 38-story building, Tracey Towers, and
was then taken out of service with Mr. Chen still inside -- his fear of the dark
is a classic traumatic-stress reaction to the fear of dying that he endured, Dr.
Tan said. She agreed with his own view that his symptoms also reflected fear
that immigration officials could be lurking somewhere, preparing to grab him.

Like most immigrants from the villages in the Fuzhou area, Mr. Chen speaks a
dialect closer to Mandarin than to Cantonese, but distinct from both. At
Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, where he was treated for dehydration
after his release from the elevator, language quickly became an issue when
doctors realized that he needed psychotherapy for the lasting effects of his
experience, Dr. Tan said.

''We referred him to psychiatry, but nobody could treat him,'' Dr. Tan said.
''The residents don't speak Mandarin. I can't do therapy in Mandarin.''
Telephone interpretation services by AT&T, known as language lines, which are
useful for other medical interactions, do not really work well for this kind of
doctor-patient exchange, she added.

Montefiore's policy is to treat residents of its neighborhood regardless of
their immigrant status or whether they are insured, but that is not the case
with many psychiatric practices. As an illegal immigrant, Mr. Chen could not
apply for Medicaid. And at postgraduate centers where therapists in training are
willing to see patients for $5 to $10 per session, Mandarin, let alone Fuzhou
dialect, is nonexistent, Dr. Tan added.

Eventually, however, she was able to refer Mr. Chen to a Mandarin-proficient
doctor at the Charles B. Wong Community Medical Center in Chinatown.

Mr. Chen, a slender man who wore a black T-shirt and dark trousers during the
interview, said he was relieved when Montefiore officials who set up his
treatment told him he would not have to worry about the bills. He has been
taking the medication prescribed by his doctors, he said. But so far, he finds
the results disappointing.

''It's helping a little bit, but not the way I was before,'' he said. ''I worry
about my health, because the way I am now, I'm not able to work, and we owe so
much money, and I have a family to support.''

He did not want to reveal where he had lived, where he lived now or how he had
tried to work. ''It's been very hard since my status has been discussed,'' he
said. ''For the past four months, I haven't really been living anywhere
stable,'' he added, describing shared quarters ''sometimes in New York,
sometimes out of state.''

One reason the police feared foul play the night Mr. Chen failed to return to
the Happy Dragon restaurant in the Bronx, where he had worked for two years, was
that in recent years several immigrant deliverymen had been killed for money or
food. Others have been robbed. But even without such disasters, the typical life
of Fujianese immigrants is one of extreme stress and isolation, according to
Kenneth J. Guest, an anthropologist at Baruch College who has studied them.

''They may not ever learn the name of the city where they're sent -- just the
area code,'' Mr. Guest said yesterday, pointing out the lists on a board at an
employment agency at East Broadway and Division Street in Chinatown, one of many
that dispatch such immigrants around the country. ''The jobs are so intense and
demanding that people can only stand it so long. Then they bail out, and hop the
next bus back to New York.''

Still, Mr. Chen said, he does not want to go home to his wife. ''I would prefer
for her to come and take care of me,'' he said with the first hint of a smile.
According to Councilman Liu, Mr. Chen earned $300 in his Bronx delivery job for
12-hour days, six days a week. ''It is definitely hard work over here,'' Mr.
Chen said. ''But the money you earn is worth it.'' In China, where his job was
loading cargo on a ship, ''we just had barely enough to survive.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2005



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about Ming Kuang Chen, a Chinese-food
deliveryman who described the lingering effects of his ordeal in a Bronx
elevator, where he was trapped for 81 hours in April, misstated the day of the
interview and the name of a medical clinic in Chinatown where he was referred to
a doctor proficient in Mandarin. He was interviewed on Monday, not Tuesday; and
the clinic is the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center, not the Charles B.
Wong Community Medical Center.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ming Kuang Chen after his rescue. He would not allow
photographs yesterday. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Looking for work at Sincere Employment Agency on Division Street under the
Manhattan Bridge. New York City is a Fujianese hub that dispatches immigrants in
Chinatown to work in restaurants all over America. (Photographs by Tyler
Hicks/The New York Times)
 Job listings with area codes, often the only thing a worker knows about his or
her destination. (pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              411 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ruling Restores Lost Benefits To Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words


New York State cannot give low-income people who are elderly, blind and disabled
less benefit money just because they are immigrants, even though the federal
government has stopped paying its share, a state judge ruled in a decision
released yesterday.

The decision restores higher aid payments to thousands of disabled legal
immigrants, many of them elderly refugees who were facing eviction after being
cut off from federal and state disability benefits because they had not become
United States citizens within a seven-year period set by Congress.

''It's a complete and total victory,'' said Jennifer Baum, a Legal Aid Society
lawyer representing some of the plaintiffs, after the ruling by Justice Jane S.
Solomon of State Supreme Court in Manhattan. ''It's a victory for New York
State's constitution and a victory for elderly, frail and disabled immigrants
who have been struggling to survive.''

New York State will appeal the decision, ''because of its severe fiscal impact
on the state,'' said John Madden, a spokesman for the state's Office of
Temporary and Disability Assistance. The office's commissioner, Robert Doar, who
is named as a defendant, is still calculating the potential cost, Mr. Madden
said.

The coalition of lawyers for the poor who brought the class-action lawsuit last
December estimate that the state will owe a total of less than $1.5 million in
retroactive payments to 487 refugees cut off during the last two years, and as
much as $3 million a year for 2,000 refugees likely to reach the cutoff at some
point during the next six or seven years, unless Congress extends the aid.

The decision also makes the state liable for providing additional aid to other
legal immigrants who are disabled or elderly but now considered for only the
lowest level of public assistance, typically $352 a month. A citizen in the same
circumstances receives $666 monthly, the standard of need set by state law for
the disabled. To reach that amount, the state adds $87 to what the federal
government pays in federal Supplemental Security Income, or S.S.I.

That $314 difference, based only on their not yet being citizens, violates both
the federal Constitution's guarantee of equal protection and the state
Constitution's requirement that the state help the needy, Justice Solomon wrote,
echoing a 2001 decision by New York's highest court that struck down a similar
state restriction on nonemergency Medicaid coverage for the immigrant poor.

Since the lawsuit was filed, 10 of the 18 named plaintiffs who are refugees have
become citizens and begun receiving their S.S.I. payments, but every month, new
cases reach the time limit and are cut off, Ms. Baum said.

To Sura Simonova, 91, a plaintiff in the lawsuit, who is nearly blind and
arrived in 1997 as a refugee from Ukraine, news of the victory seemed too good
to be true. Mrs. Simonova, who shares a small $650 Brooklyn apartment with her
69-year-old disabled daughter, was still waiting for her citizenship interview
when her S.S.I. benefits were cut off in June 2004. Her daughter, a citizen,
continues to get S.S.I. benefits, but they cover just the rent, leaving only
$352 to Mrs. Simonova for other expenses.

''We had a very tough time to survive,'' Mrs. Simonova said through an
interpreter. ''My daughter and I didn't have enough food or vitamins, and we
could not even run air-conditioning when it was so hot because we didn't have
enough money.''

Mrs. Simonova passed her citizenship interview in February, but apparently her
fingerprints have not yet cleared the Department of Homeland Security -- a delay
experienced by many applicants, according to Constance Carden, a lawyer with the
New York Legal Assistance Group.

The decision brought joy to Sarah Rubin, who said she planned to communicate it
to her frail, deaf parents in sign language. They were cut off from their S.S.I.
benefits in July.

''They are 73 and 75,'' she said. ''They are in the process of obtaining their
citizenship, and it takes so long in New York now, and only because of this they
were deprived of everything -- all source of living including any money, medical
coverage, food stamps, everything.''

The state had argued in part that the immigrants had no right to be heard in
court because the cutoff was the result of a political decision on benefits
reached in Congress. It also contended that the immigrants had no independent
right to aid at the level set by the state.

But Justice Solomon rejected that view, saying it would lead to ''the perverse
result'' that the state would be providing extra money to people whose income
was too high to qualify for federal S.S.I., while denying it to needier people
solely because they were immigrants.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sura Simonova, 91, a refugee from Ukraine, was one of the
plaintiffs in the lawsuit. ''We had a very tough time to survive,'' she said
through an interpreter. ''My daughter and I didn't have enough food or
vitamins.'' (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              412 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 22, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Young Dominican Immigrant Joins in a Popular Rite of Passage

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Finally, Back to the Island for
a Summer at Home; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

DATELINE: VILLA VASQUEZ, Dominican Republic


Elsa Salcedo was standing in her black dress on the broken sidewalk in front of
her house when the taxi turned right at the grocery store. As the taxi headed
slowly toward her, she caught sight of the young man in the front passenger
seat.

The skinny scrap of a boy who had gone to ''Nueba Yol'' four years earlier was
so much bigger now. She could barely see his face beneath his new Yankee cap and
sunglasses.

Mrs. Salcedo, 67, had scrubbed the concrete floors of her two-room palm wood
house. She had gone to the market early to claim the choicest pieces of fresh
chivo, or goat, and prepared her chivo picante with rice and beans. It was all
for Santiago Molina, her 18-year-old grandson, who was arriving from New York.

He had flown into the city of Santiago and then made the 90-minute taxi ride to
dusty Villa Vasquez, in the rural northwest Monte Cristi province, one of the
poorest regions of the Dominican Republic. ''Oh, my grandmother!'' Santiago
said. ''I've been crazy to see her.''

He climbed out of the taxi and wrapped his muscular pitcher's arms around his
grandmother, who was crying. His cousin Katerin, 14, came out of the house with
a shy smile. His aunt Luz Maria and his uncle Porfirio were hurrying up the
street, calling out his childhood nickname: ''Chocho! Chocho!''

After four years in New York, after the long winters and considerable
loneliness, Santiago was home, at least for a while.

In Santiago's Washington Heights neighborhood, summer is when Dominican
immigrant parents send their children back to the island, to Santo Domingo, the
capital; to San Pedro de Macoris; to La Romana; and to Villa Vasquez and all the
other places they left in hope of finding jobs in New York that would help them
escape poverty. On every block in Washington Heights, in every apartment
building, it seems, there is a boy or girl who has already taken JetBlue or
American Airlines to D.R., as they call it, or is about to go there, or just got
back.

The trip is a tropical vacation and a chance to reconnect with relatives and
Dominican culture. It is also one layer of the complicated relationship these
immigrants negotiate between New York and the Dominican Republic, between their
family members and responsibilities in two countries.

''In the Dominican Republic I was happy,'' Santiago said. ''But I had no future.
In New York I have a lot of problems, but I have opportunity.''

He was 14 and knew no English when he and his brother Wenester, seven years
older, emigrated to New York, joining their mother, Olga, who had gone ahead a
decade earlier and had become an American citizen. (Mrs. Molina, 44, is
separated from Santiago's father.) Santiago left in tears, his grandmother
recalled, wanting to be with his mother, but wanting even more to stay with his
great-grandmother, who had raised him, and with his youth baseball coach, Yovani
Cruel Nunez, who had become his surrogate father.

In Washington Heights, when he wasn't at school -- he finished his senior year
at George Washington High School in June -- or playing baseball, Santiago spent
his afternoons watching Spanish television alone in his family's run-down
one-bedroom tenement apartment on West 169th Street. His mother, a $6.75-an-hour
home care attendant, works six and seven days a week, struggling to support her
family in both New York and Villa Vasquez. Wenester, 25, puts in equally long
hours as a roofer.

''In New York, everyone is always working,'' said Santiago, who is a permanent
legal resident of the United States.

A good student and a gifted pitcher, Santiago dreams of helping his family by
making it to the major leagues or at least to college on a baseball scholarship.
As a junior on the George Washington baseball team, he had a 92-mile-an-hour
fastball, and his coach, Steve Mandl, called him a major-league prospect. But
after developing pain in his elbow so severe he couldn't straighten his arm, he
had surgery last September. Doctors predicted a full recovery but told Santiago
he would need a year off from pitching at full velocity.

Instead of pitching in front of major-league scouts this spring, Santiago sat on
the bench. Everything would be all right after he went to Villa Vasquez, he
said. But as school was ending in June, his mother told him she couldn't afford
the plane ticket. A former youth baseball coach from Long Island ultimately
offered to pay his plane fare home.

At 6 a.m. on the last day of June, Santiago said goodbye to his mother and
brother, and hoisted his big suitcases stuffed with gifts for his family and
donated baseball equipment for his coach down the four flights of stairs of his
building, and into a taxi.

Eleven hours later, he was at the small wooden table in his grandmother's living
room, bolting her chivo so he could get to the baseball field. It was 6 p.m.
Practice would be in session. The diamond was the same: rocky, weed-choked, with
old shirts for bases. Santiago hugged his coach so hard that a week later Mr.
Nunez, 29, would joke that his ribs still ached.

When he left for New York, Santiago was perhaps 5 feet 3 inches tall and 110
pounds. Now, at 6 feet and 200 pounds, he was the biggest person on the baseball
field.

Santiago's former teammates, their mismatched shorts and old T-shirts swimming
on their skinny frames, stared at him. With his New York clothes, his blue
jeans, black shirt, Yankee cap, sunglasses and rhinestone earrings, Santiago
looked like a stranger.

''Yo, it's me, Santiago,'' Santiago said, taking off his sunglasses and Yankee
cap. Soon they were all joking around and talking baseball like before.

''Sometimes when people go to New York, they change,'' Santiago said later.
''I'm the same guy. I like to eat, I like to dance.''

The next morning he awakened at his grandmother's to the sound of roosters and
merengue and bachata blasting from somewhere down the block.

''I feel free,'' Santiago said, digging into his grandmother's mangu, mashed
plantains. ''I can turn up the music, nobody call the police. I go on the
street, I say hello to everybody. I'm happy.''

And then he was out the door again, absorbing his town. One minute he was
outside the grocery, surrounded by his friends: Nanano, Dachi, Bladi, Andys,
Quibi, Gelito, Joel, Analdo. The next he was on the back of his coach's
motorbike, bumping over the potholed streets. Then it was 10 p.m. and he was
showing off his salsa moves at the local disco.

Everyone wanted to know about New York. Santiago's friends, who either can't
find jobs or earn only a few pesos a week digging ditches or ferrying people
around on motorbikes, are all desperate to get to New York. For these young men
in remote Villa Vasquez, New York is still the city with the glittering lights
and tall buildings they see on television on New Year's Eve.

''They say, 'Yo, New York,' they think you're rich,'' Santiago said.

He showed them pictures of his block of five- and six-story tenement buildings.
''In reality, I don't live in a skyscraper downtown,'' he told his friends.

On his sixth day back, a 16-year-old girl named Wuina, with blond streaks in her
long dark brown hair, told Santiago's friend Jailin she thought Santiago was
beautiful. Jailin coaxed a blushing Wuina into repeating the compliment to
Santiago.

Santiago's time in Villa Vasquez soon fell into a routine: Wuina, whose family
kept a close watch on her, would look for him whenever she could. From morning
until late at night, except when he went back to his grandmother's to eat,
Santiago was outside on the street withhis coach and his friends.

''Now, Yovani and I are like before,'' Santiago said. ''He is my father again.''

Every day at 5 they went to the baseball field. Mr. Nunez worked with Santiago
on his pitching mechanics. His arm felt much stronger, Santiago said.

As August, and his departure, approached, Santiago kept saying he wanted to stay
in Villa Vasquez. But his mother and brother were waiting for him in New York.
He had to prepare for his future. He had to pass the English Regents exam so he
could collect his high school diploma. Then he could try for a college baseball
scholarship.

On his last day, Santiago's grandmother packed her dulce de leche into a large
plastic container for him to take to New York.

Santiago gave his $200 baseball glove, once a gift to him, to his friend Analdo.

Wuina cried and told Santiago she would wait for him. ''I told her, 'Don't cry,
I know that it's hard, but I'm going to come back,''' Santiago said afterward.

But Santiago cried, too. ''Yovani kept patting me on the head,'' he recalled
later. ''He say, 'Stop crying, you're a man. Work hard, you can help your
family. You see, you'll have a good house, you'll have a car.'''

Santiago's friends all wanted to go with him. ''They say, 'You cry because you
are leaving,''' Santiago recalled. '''You want to stay here. We all want to go
there.'''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Santiago Molina in his family's one-bedroom apartment on 169th
Street in Washington Heights. In Villa Vasquez, he showed old friends photos of
the block. ''I don't live in a skyscraper downtown,'' he told them. (Photo by
Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
Santiago rode a motorbike and worked out with old baseball teammates this summer
in Villa Vasquez, where his photo rests on his grandmother's shelf.
 Santiago Molina, 18, reunited with Elsa Salcedo, his grandmother, in Villa
Vasquez, Dominican Republic. He moved to New York four years ago. (Photographs
by Walter Astrada/World Picture News, for The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              413 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Family in New Mexico, Front Row View to a Border Crisis Carries Risks

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1510 words

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, N.M., Aug. 17


If James Johnson were any closer to Mexico, he would be in it.

And if there is a front line in the border crisis stretching from California to
Texas, it may be the 14 miles of wide open boundary that the Johnson clan shares
with their Mexican counterparts to the south.

As many as 500 immigrants a day use their ranch and farmland as a welcome mat,
they say, with bandits and smuggling guides making some areas too dangerous to
visit. Fences have been torn down, they say, crops pilfered and cattle watering
tanks fouled with human waste.

Every day, just feet from their property, old school buses and vans with windows
blacked out disgorge luggageless passengers who disappear into the derelict
Mexican village of Las Chepas and re-emerge on distant hills sloping back down
on the American side.

''There goes another busload,'' Mr. Johnson, 30, said as an approaching gray van
boiled a cloud of dust on a Mexican gravel road almost within touching distance,
then rolled out of sight. ''They'll be passing my place tonight.''

Often thought of as a federal or international concern, illegal immigration has
reached such a pace along parts of the border that officials are now expressing
fear for the people who live and work there. On Aug. 12, Gov. Bill Richardson of
New Mexico, citing the kidnapping of three immigrants by bandits on the
Johnsons' land, declared a disaster in four counties he described as
''devastated by the ravages and terror of human smuggling, drug smuggling,
kidnapping, murder, destruction of property and death of livestock.'' Several
days later, Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona followed suit.

The concerns come as the volume of illegal immigration has increased
dramatically in both states, funneled there by stepped-up enforcement in
California and Texas. Border Patrol figures for the 53-mile-long Deming Station
area that includes the Johnsons' land show that 31,134 people were apprehended
through July of this year, compared with 29,168 for all of last year. The patrol
says there have also been more than 16,580 times this year when people turned
back under the gaze of border agents.

In 2002, the patrol noted 13 cases of people driving through, over or past
vehicle barriers. This year, there have been 330. Robert Velez, a Border Patrol
agent, said the bodies of 11 illegal immigrants, apparently dead from exposure,
have been found in the brush so far this year, compared with five in the Deming
Station area in all of 2004.

In Columbus, a fast-growing town of 2,000 at an official Port of Entry with
Mexico, Police Chief Clare A. May said two shots were fired at him Aug. 9 while
he examined a suspected smuggler's car at the Family Dollar store, a popular
immigrants' rendezvous point.

Chief May said he hoped some of the $1.7 million in emergency money made
available by the governor's declaration could go for a fourth patrol officer and
some investigators, or at least for vehicle maintenance and gas.

In Animas, 60 miles from the border, Sheila Massey said she and her husband had
recently been roused at 2 a.m. by illegal migrants breaking into their
farmhouse. ''One said he was looking for work,'' she recounted. ''I said you
don't look for work at 2 in the morning. What we've lost is our sense of
security.''

Luis Barker, deputy chief of the Border Patrol in Washington, said that ''we're
not where we want to be'' but that ''when we apply pressure in one sector, we
see a shift elsewhere.''

Mr. Barker said New Mexico was ''a priority corridor -- we're putting our
resources in that location.'' Seven poles towering over the desert have daylight
and infrared cameras -- 10 more are coming -- and the sandy trails are seeded
with buried sensors.

Mr. Barker said the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrol's parent
agency, was not embarrassed by the emergency declarations made by the two
governors and welcomed the chance to cooperate with state authorities.

But that is of little comfort to the Johnsons, particularly James's uncle and
aunt, Joe and Teresa Johnson, ranchers who say they have had brushes with
smugglers. Particularly scary, they say, are the forbidden zones on their own
land, first settled by the family in 1918 in the marauding days of the Mexican
revolutionary Pancho Villa, who plundered Columbus.

Family members own about 110,000 acres, where they raise cattle, chili peppers,
onions and watermelons. Their highlands, the Carrizalillo mountains on the map
but known here simply as the Johnson mountains, are often occupied by men with
binoculars who direct the migrant traffic, or prey on it.

''The Border Patrol has warned us to stay out of certain areas,'' Teresa Johnson
said.

Jack T. Jeffreys, field operations supervisor for the Border Patrol in the area,
said the Johnsons' estimate of 500 trespassers a day was difficult to
corroborate, since the average number of migrants caught daily in the entire
Deming zone was about 175. But Mr. Jeffreys said there was no way of knowing how
many went uncaught.

Everyone captured is fingerprinted and checked against government files.
Non-Mexicans are held for deportation proceedings, but because jail space is
limited, Mexicans without criminal records are generally released across the
border. They can be caught and released a dozen times before facing charges,
Border Patrol agents say. In fact, they say, when they stop seeing certain
repeat offenders it means they have finally made it in.

Sometimes the incursions can be surprisingly blatant, as when a couple and two
women were picked up Wednesday after strolling through holes in the fence just
beside the Port of Entry. They were quickly taken to a Border Patrol trailer in
Columbus for processing.

One of the women, Maria Guadelupe Chavez, 51, from Durango, Mexico, said she had
been living in Oregon illegally for the past 13 years. She married an American,
she said, ''but it didn't work out,'' and had been working there as a licensed
home aide. Asked why she had returned to Mexico and risked an illegal re-entry,
she replied, ''stupidity.''

But she said, ''I'll definitely try again.''

A block away the day before, Chief May, sitting in his one-room station --
rented quarters because the city is too poor to put up a police building -- said
he was looking for a stolen vehicle this spring when he discovered 53 illegal
immigrants in a Columbus motel.

He said he had no clues about who had shot at him this month. ''I heard a loud
bang and I thought, 'I know what this is, this is a gunshot,''' he said. Then he
heard a bullet go by his ear. ''Yep,'' he recalled thinking, ''I know what that
is.''

James Johnson said that on July 21, four men and four women entered from Mexico
and had gotten about half a mile into the United States when a van began
trailing them. Three bandits ran out, grabbed three of the women at his fence
and dragged them away.

The others escaped to a farmhouse where, he said, his mother, ''scared to
death,'' retrieved a gun and held them for the Border Patrol.

One of the abducted women was soon released and the other two were picked up 15
miles away, all apparently unharmed, Mr. Johnson said.

James Johnson said that several weeks ago he came across a Mexican couple who
said they had paid $900 to smugglers but had been abandoned in the brush without
food or water when they fell behind the rest of their group. He said he drove
them back to the border.

Riding the fence in July, Teresa Johnson said, she heard walkie-talkies and came
face to face with two strangers with binoculars. Last fall, she said, she
stepped out of her door to find a woman outside holding a list of names, clearly
migrants to be smuggled, ''like you'd go to the grocery store with a list of
things to pick up,'' she said.

On July 3, she said, a lost migrant set their pasture afire to alert the Border
Patrol. And just two weeks ago, she and Joe were leaving home for a meeting of
the border task force, a monthly community gripe forum, when they found an
illegal immigrant at their door who said he was lost and wanted to give up.

''I called the Border Patrol and said we were going to be late for their meeting
because we had to wait until they could pick the gentleman up,'' Joe Johnson
said.

Despite their frustration, family members are not looking for help from any of
the civilian border patrol groups that have formed in recent years, like the
Minuteman Project, James Johnson said. For one thing, he said, the area is
without cellphone service, hampering civilian communication. Also, he said,
''You don't know their agenda -- it's too much of a liability.''

The feeling of helplessness is constant, but not altogether new. A dozen years
ago, Joe Johnson said, he and his brother Bill were held up by five gunmen who
took their pickup truck and fled toward Mexico, getting stuck in a ditch just
before the border. About eight years ago, he said, 30 head of their cattle were
herded into Mexico; a few were found alive before slaughter in Palomas.

''We just want to be left alone to earn a living,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jack T. Jeffreys, above, a Border Patrol supervisor, on the
Mexican border last week west of Columbus, N.M., a prime area for illegal
immigration. James Johnson, far left, says he regularly sees Mexicans arriving
in buses to cross into the United States. The bus on the left, seen from his
land, came to Las Chepas on a recent afternoon. (Photographs by David Bowser for
The New York Times)Chart: ''Illegal Crossings''Earlier this month, Gov. Bill
Richardson declared a state of emergency in the southern New Mexico counties of
Hidalgo, Grant, Luna and Dona Ana.Illegal immigrants apprehended in Luna and
Grant Counties (thousands)Graph tracks Illegal immigrants apprehended in Luna
and Grant Counties since 1999.Years are Oct.1 to Sept. 30*Through Aug.
17(Sources by U.S. Customs and Border Protection
 Bureau of Land Management)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              414 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Dreamer Stuck Behind the Wheel of a Limousine to Nowhere

BYLINE: By LAURA KERN

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM
REVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 515 words


Family values, cultural limitations, faith and immigration are just a few of the
diverse yet universal themes explored in ''La Visa Loca,'' the Filipino director
Mark Meily's lively follow-up to ''Crying Ladies'' (which also made the rare
transition from the Philippines to American theaters).

An ambitious young limousine driver, Jess (convincingly portrayed by the
charming Robin Padilla, a popular action star in his home country), suffers from
a serious case of American Dreaming but is denied the coveted ''crazy visa''
time and again.

He stumbles across an alternate exit plan when one of his regular customers,
Nigel Adams, the prominent host of ''Planet Strange,'' a
truth-is-weirder-than-fiction television show reminiscent of ''Real People,''
agrees to help Jess secure a nurse's aide job in America. In return, he wants
Jess to find a man willing to carry out one of the more extreme Roman Catholic
customs practiced during Holy Week in the Philippines: voluntary crucifixion.

Religion plays a vital role in Jess's life, but whether he is up to the task
himself emerges as one of the film's central conflicts. The choice is all the
more burdensome because acting as a martyr for his own salvation would
ultimately result in the abandonment of his diabetic, hearing-impaired but still
vivacious father, Mang Sancho (Johnny Delgado). The father has already been
deserted once, by his wife, who years earlier chose America's promise of a
better, more prosperous life over her family.

Jess has a chance encounter with an old flame, Mara (Rufa Mae Quinto), the local
carnival mermaid, who wears an unconvincing fin and wig, and her 7-year-old son
(who may also be Jess's), a meeting that inspires him to even more seriously
re-evaluate his desire to escape his seemingly dead-end existence and join his
fiancee in California.

Each time Jess is forced to ponder his choices, an over-the-top five-person
musical group materializes, Greek-chorus-style, to perform songs that represent
both the voice of reason and Jess's conscience. This attempt at absurdist humor
totally misfires, as do many of the film's more forced and juvenile comedy bits,
including an irksome montage of assorted kooky characters applying for visas,
and a puzzling fixation with urination, which come off as awkward rather than
amusing.

It is the more personal relationships and details that prove to be genuine and
heartfelt. There are certainly deeper issues simmering below the deceptively
lightweight film's surface, but its full impact will most likely be lost on
non-Filipino audiences.

La Visa Loca
Opens today in Manhattan.

Written (in Filipino, with English subtitles) and directed by Mark Meily;
director of photography, Lee Meily; edited by Danny Anonuevo and Ike Veneracion;
music by Vincent de Jesus; production designer, Norman Regalado; produced by
Tony Gloria; released by Unico Entertainment. At the ImaginAsian Theater, 239
East 59th Street, Manhattan. Running time: 105 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Robin Padilla (Jess Huson), Johnny Delgado (Mang Sancho) and Rufa Mae
Quinto (Mara).


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              415 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: New Mexico: Meeting On Border Security

BYLINE: By Ralph Blumenthal (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              416 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 27, 2005 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Rights Agency Urges U.S. Not to Deport AIDS Patient

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words


The human rights arm of the Organization of American States is asking the United
States not to deport a terminally ill AIDS patient from the Bronx while it
reviews her claim that deportation would violate her basic right to life.

The patient, Andrea Marie Mortlock, 41, is a legal permanent resident of the
United States who was convicted in 1987 of selling cocaine and has been fighting
a criminal deportation order for a decade. She argues that deporting her to her
native Jamaica would be ''tantamount to a death sentence'' because she could not
get proper AIDS medication and treatment there and would face severe
discrimination.

Her lawyers turned to the O.A.S., the organization for the 35 nations of the
Western Hemisphere, in a desperate bid to halt the deportation.

The petition is the first deportation case involving AIDS to be accepted by the
O.A.S. agency, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.

Advocates for human rights say it points to a larger trend: As groups like
deportable immigrants and death row inmates are being blocked from domestic
courts by legislators impatient with protracted appeals, international bodies
like the O.A.S. commission, the International Court of Justice at The Hague, and
the United Nations Committee Against Torture are expanding their reach to fill
the gap.

''In the past it hasn't been as relevant,'' in countries like the United States
and Canada, said Brian Tittemore, a staff lawyer for the commission, which has
mainly dealt with human rights abuses in Latin American member states since it
was founded in 1965.

''Previously people were protected under those strong national Constitutions.
But the more you see these gaps and gray areas, the more it matters.''

At the State Department, Olwyn Staples, a public affairs officer with the United
States mission to the O.A.S., said officials could not comment.

The human rights commission, based in Washington, has no enforcement powers, but
it has considerable moral authority, and an overall record of cooperation by
member states, including the United States. Unlike other member states, however,
the United States does not consider the commission's rulings legally binding.

The commission took on three out of the 57 petitions it received against the
United States last year, out of a total of 160 petitions selected from among
1,329 received.

It is now eager to raise its profile among American immigration lawyers, Mr.
Tittemore said, because the protections it offers transcend nationality. Though
legal scholars say it is the only international forum where the United States
responds to individual complaints, it is still relatively unknown outside a
network of American death penalty lawyers.

In Ms. Mortlock's case, her lawyers said, a student intern working for the
lawyers stumbled on the commission's existence during a frantic Internet search
for ways to halt her immediate deportation. Advocates say that Ms. Mortlock, a
former drug addict with a long history of petty larceny, turned her life around
after a judge ordered her released from nearly three years in immigration
detention in March 2003 over the government's objections.

At that time the Jamaican consulate in New York was refusing to issue travel
documents for her deportation on the ground that there was no medical care for
her illness in Jamaica.

In court filings, federal lawyers threatened sanctions against Jamaica, faulted
Ms. Mortlock for revealing her 1998 diagnosis of H.I.V./AIDS, and vigorously
opposed her release from a series of immigration detention centers in
Pennsylvania and Texas.

But Sarah Loomis Cave, a lawyer for the firm Cleary Gottlieb acting without fee,
and Olivia Cassin, a Legal Aid Society lawyer, won her release on the basis of a
Supreme Court decision known as Zadvydas v. Davis, which held that indefinite
detention -- defined as more than six months -- is constitutional only if the
detainee is dangerous.

In some ways, Ms. Mortlock's life reflects the dark side of familiar immigration
patterns, said her doctor, Gabriela Rodriguez-Caprio. She was a child when her
mother went to work in the United States, leaving her behind in Jamaica in an
abusive household.

Arriving in New York at 15, she eventually succumbed to drugs and petty crime to
feed her habit, and then served a year in prison on the cocaine charge.

In and out of jobs and rehabilitation programs, she missed her day in
immigration court in 1995 and was ordered deported in absentia. Then it was too
late: in 1996, Congress adopted laws requiring deportation in a larger number of
criminal cases, sharply narrowing chances for individual judicial review.

Since her 2003 release, Ms. Mortlock, who has a sister, a daughter, 22, and a
son, 12, who are all United States citizens, hewed to a complicated medical
regime as she sickened, took vocational courses, arranged her son's baptism, and
reported regularly to federal immigration headquarters in Manhattan with Ms.
Cassin.

She was taken into custody at the headquarters on Aug. 11, and is being held for
deportation in Passaic County jail in Paterson, N.J.

In an affidavit to the Inter-American Commission, Dr. Rodriguez-Caprio wrote
that medications, nutritional supplements and growth hormones that slow Ms.
Mortlock's illness are unavailable in Jamaica, and ''her missing these
medications will lead to rapid progression and death.''

Federal authorities say her illness has no bearing on their proceedings.

''It is our legal obligation to carry out a removal order that has been issued
by a federal judge,'' said Tim Counts, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. ''That is our job, and that is the only motivation for moving
forward on this removal.''

In papers opposing the reopening of the 1995 deportation order, James D. Paoli,
a lawyer for the immigration agency, said that regardless of the hardships Ms.
Mortlock faces because of her illness, after more than a decade, she ''is a
perfect example as to the necessity of bringing finality to proceedings.''

Ms. Cassin countered, ''How can you balance finality in an immigration case with
someone's right to live?''

She cited a decision by the European Human Rights Court in the 1990's,
overruling British courts that had approved the deportation of a drug smuggler
dying of AIDS to his native St. Kitts, and holding that ''his removal would
expose him to a real risk of dying under most distressing circumstances and
would thus amount to inhuman treatment.''

It is the rights to life, physical integrity and protection from torture that
have most drawn international bodies into the domestic fray.

Currently, the United Nations Committee Against Torture, which monitors
compliance with the international Convention Against Torture, is demanding more
information about individual cases from the United States, which presented a
report in May.

In March 2004, the International Court of Justice in the Hague, also known as
the World Court, ruled in a lawsuit brought by Mexico against the United States
that 51 Mexicans on death row had a right to reconsideration of their
convictions and sentences under the Vienna Convention, because they had not been
informed at the time of their arrests that they could seek help from Mexican
consular officials.

The issue had reached the United States Supreme Court in one case, but President
Bush decided to comply with the World Court ruling, calling it an exercise of
his foreign affairs power. And in a growing number of high court rulings in
recent years, justices have used or cited the reasoning in international
decisions, including some by the Inter-American Commission.

Conservatives like Richard Samp, chief legal counsel to the Washington Legal
Foundation, deplore this development as an intrusion on the prerogatives of the
elected branches of government.

''If Congress makes a determination that someone should be deported regardless
of the fact that they have AIDS, then they ought to be deported, regardless of
whether there's an opposing position by a body like the O.A.S.,'' he said.

Human rights advocates like Juan Mendez, a former president of the commission
who now directs the International Center for Transitional Justice in New York,
welcome the trend. ''International law is not going to substitute for domestic
policy or domestic law,'' he said, ''but it's going to test the limits and push
the envelope in the direction of more protections rather than less.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2005



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about a request by the human rights arm of
the Organization of American States that the United States not deport a
terminally ill AIDS patient from the Bronx while it reviews her petition
misidentified the law firm of Sarah Loomis Cave, a lawyer working on the
patient's case. It is Hughes Hubbard & Reed, not Cleary Gottlieb.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrea Mortlock

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              417 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 28, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Tea Doesn't Mix With Political Sympathies

BYLINE: By ABEER ALLAM

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Astoria Journal; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1077 words


At El Khaiam cafe on Steinway Street in the middle of what is known as Little
Egypt in Astoria, Queens, Arab immigrants sit around imitation marble tables and
chat animatedly as they play backgammon or cards. They sip ink-black Egyptian
tea or tart lemonade and smoke fruit-flavored tobacco from stained-glass water
pipes.

The decor evokes a tourist knock-off of Egypt replete with murals of the
pyramids, the Nile and a smiling King Tut, and the bustling cafe recreates the
friendly ambience of similar establishments in the Arab world.

If the cafe owner, Gamal Dewidar, had been there, the conversations would not
have been about international politics. But Mr. Dewidar is not there on this day
and some customers hijack the television remote to watch Al Jazeera Arab
satellite TV news. All conversation ceases. The news anchor relates stories
about sectarian violence in Iraq and strife in the Palestinian territories as
the water pipes bubble and the swirling smoke condenses into a sweet fog. When
the broadcast ends, patrons break off into small groups and heatedly discuss in
Arabic events in the Middle East and criticize governments back home.

''He said it was a crusade,'' said Farid El Baghdadi a 47-year-old Egyptian
immigrant, referring to President Bush's war on terror. ''And he turned it into
a religious war.''

Others nodded in approval.

''He says he is bringing democracy to Iraq, but he supports the Egyptian and
Saudi regimes that suppress demonstrators,'' added Farzat Souliman, a
34-year-old Kurdish immigrant from Syria. There were also conspiracy theories
about American plans to occupy Saudi oil fields and to detain young
Arab-Americans at the military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

It is the kind of conversation that most patrons would not dare have if Mr.
Dewidar, the owner of El Khaiam, had been at the cafe.

For him, tea and politics do not mix. Mr. Dewidar does not allow customers to
watch Al Jazeera or CNN, and permits only Egyptian movies or Arab music videos
on the huge television set up on a dark brown table in a corner of the cafe. Mr.
Dewidar strictly enforces his rule against political discussions. If he suspects
customers are whispering about politics, he turns up the volume on the TV to
drown them out. If they retreat into the back patio to continue their
discussions, Mr. Dewidar sends his brother outside to turn up the volume on the
stereo out there.

If customers still do not get the message, Mr. Dewidar will scold them.
Sometimes, he will kick them out.

''They talk nonsense,'' said Mr. Dewidar, a 45-year-old Egyptian with a
salt-and-pepper goatee and short-cropped hair who moved to New York from Cairo
26 years ago. ''They say the same thing we hear on Al Jazeera or CNN. America is
good. America is bad. People come here to relax, not to hear the political views
of jobless, miserable men with no wives, no girlfriends, and no money.''

If such brusque customer treatment seems unorthodox, Mr. Dewidar doesn't care.
He sees it as the best way to protect his cafe. He started censoring patrons
after what he described as a ''mysterious'' surge in visits by health and fire
inspectors from the city. He worried that with anti-Arab sentiment aroused after
the Sept. 11 attacks, his patrons' conversations might attract too much
attention from city authorities.

''This country is not the same,'' he said. ''Before, we were all equal. Now we
are not equal.''

The Fire Department and the city health department denied deliberately singling
out any establishments because of their clientele. Sid Dinsay, a spokesman for
the city health department, said that a few months ago ''the department
responded to a complaint of tobacco smoke entering a residence from various
establishments in the area'' where El Khaiam is located.

Maria Lamberti, a spokeswoman for the Fire Department, said that Mr. Dewidar had
received a summons in 2003, but according to department records, the problem had
been corrected. She said the records did not specify the nature of the summons.

Despite his prohibition on news and political talk, Mr. Dewidar has attempted to
create a little slice of Egypt in his cafe, importing tea, sugar, tobacco and
water pipes. While other cafes in Little Egypt cater to a younger crowd of men
and women, El Khaiam attracts older men seeking the camaraderie of the cafes
they remember from their homelands.

To clarify his loyalties to his customers, Mr. Dewidar designed an unlikely
montage. Mounted on a gaudy pink background and hanging prominently on a wall
are smiling photographs of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt; Gamal Mubarak, his
son and likely successor; and President Bush.

Mr. Dewidar said he designed the display.

''These are my presidents,'' he said. ''It is as if your mother married twice.
One is your biological father and the other is your stepfather. You have to love
them both.''

As guests in his cafe, most patrons refused to talk about Mr. Dewidar's
policies. When asked, some patrons looked over their shoulders and joked that
Mr. Dewidar might be recording their conversations.

But one of the men who had watched the news on Al Jazeera, Mr. Souliman, did
express his distaste for Mr. Dewidar's montage because it reminded him of Middle
Eastern dictators back home.

''I was very disappointed in him,'' Mr. Souliman said. ''I could not believe
Egyptians think this way. Here he is in America and he thinks this way?''

Though he governs his cafe with an iron fist and has a mercurial temper, Mr.
Dewidar still enjoys chatting and swapping amusing stories with customers. He
even talks politics sometimes, but only as long as patrons agree with his
opinions. He also helps newly arrived immigrants find jobs and a place to stay,
and will lend them money. He attributes the frustration many recent Arab
immigrants feel to unrealistic expectations.

''They think of America as a fancy dream,'' he said. ''But not every American is
a millionaire, has a house, a car and 10 girlfriends like they see on
television. America will be good to their children, but not to them.''

He has lost some regular customers, but Mr. Dewidar blames competition from
about a half-dozen other Egyptian cafes in the area rather than his rules. And
anyway, he said, he actually wouldn't mind driving away all his Arab customers
if he could replace them with the hipper younger residents who have moved to the
neighborhood.

''Managing an Egyptian cafe is an art,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gamal Dewidar, right, who forbids customers to watch CNN or Al
Jazeera in his cafe, enjoying a smoke while two customers play a game.
 Azam, who gave only his first name, smoking a water pipe at El Khaiam, a cafe
in a section of Queens called Little Egypt. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              418 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 29, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Off Ecuador's Coast, Grief for Lost Migrants and Dreams

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1033 words

DATELINE: ABOARD THE CALICUCHIMA, off Ecuador, Aug. 27


With tears streaming down his face and sea spray blowing through his hair,
Manuel Coyago was the first to toss a bouquet of flowers into the choppy waters
where three of his sons, just hours into their illegal and dangerous journey to
the United States, died earlier this month, with 91 others.

''Claudio Esteban, receive these flowers, my lovely son,'' said Mr. Coyago, 64,
as dozens of other mourners wailed behind him aboard this Ecuadorean naval
vessel. ''Manuel Jesus, receive these flowers, my lovely son. Saul Benito,
receive these flowers, my lovely son.''

He finished by throwing a rosary into the sea, saying, ''Please use it, my sons,
to pray.''

Others flung letters, drawings, Bibles and even photographs in an emotional
ceremony on Saturday that captured the blinding pain that has throttled this
country since Aug. 12, when a creaky, wooden ship made for 15 people sank with
the 94 Ecuadorean migrants who had hoped to seize the American dream.

They were people like Stalin Zhunio, 16, who had not seen his father in seven
years and wanted to join him in Chicago. There were Sandra Laso, 17, who had
hoped to live with her parents in New York, and Cristian Ortiz, 18, who planned
to work in New York for three years, saving money to give his baby boy a better
life.

''I never imagined we would separate this way,'' said Gabriela Pintado, 18, who
had been married to Mr. Ortiz for just a year. ''I thought he would go, complete
his dream and come home.''

Now, their remains are at the bottom of the ocean, trapped in the hold of a
little boat that was only one day into a seven-day journey, with the goal of
delivering its passengers to a secluded drop-off spot in Guatemala, 1,000
nautical miles north. From there, the coyotes, smugglers who make a living
moving human contraband, planned to take the Ecuadoreans through Mexico to the
United States.

It is a ritual repeated over and over in this Andean country of 12 million,
where tens of thousands of immigrants every year pay up to $12,000 each to be
smuggled to what they hope will be a better life. While most make it to their
destination, tragedies at sea are not uncommon.

''In this region there are tremendous winds and rough waves, but the boats are
wood and fragile,'' explained Capt. Julio Cabrera, commander of the Calicuchima.
''The migrants who get on those boats don't have the slightest idea what they're
getting into.''

But details of the drownings of these migrants rarely become public, and
government authorities have done little to investigate.

''People die all the time, but no one knows,'' said Rodrigo Matute, a reporter
from the mountainous Azuay Province, where most Ecuadorean migrants come from.
''Why? Because the coyotes call their families and threaten them to be quiet.''

But this time it is different, he said.

Of 103 passengers aboard, 9 survived, picked up at sea two days later when
fishermen aboard a skiff found them clinging to boxes and buoys, more than 200
miles off southern Colombia. ''They wouldn't have been able to hold on longer,''
said Leonardo Hernandez, 17, the fisherman who first spotted the passengers.
''They had no strength left.''

Their stories have hit Ecuador like a sledgehammer, prompting Azuay Province
leaders to call for a crackdown on human smuggling. Ecuador's president, Alfredo
Palacio, promised that his government would act, calling smugglers ''an evil
that hits the poorest especially hard.''

The families of those who left said their loved ones had carefully weighed the
risks of a long journey but ultimately decided getting to the United States was
worth the risks.

''I told him, 'Why go?''' recalled Alejandro Ortiz, speaking of his son,
Cristian. ''But he said, 'Papi, what do I do? I have a child now, and I have no
work.'''

Mauricio Macas, 20, also insisted, saying he wanted to make it to New Jersey to
help his family make their way out of debt. ''He wanted to work so that he could
help them pay,'' said Maria Lucia Pando, an aunt.

Hopefully cautious, the young migrants said goodbye to their families this month
and left for the coast to begin their clandestine journey. It was only after the
survivors started to recount their experiences from a coastal hospital that the
families up in the Andes began to wonder if their loved ones had drowned.

''I called the coyote to see if he knew anything,'' recalled Lourdes Perez,
mother of Cristian Ortiz. ''The coyote said, 'Your son was on board and he died,
and you have to be strong.'''

On Saturday, with about 100 families split into three groups, the relatives of
the dead boarded two naval corvettes and the Calicuchima, a naval supply vessel,
in Manta for a symbolic funeral at sea. They had made a daylong bus journey from
Azuay Province.

''This was a way for them to say goodbye, to say, 'I love you son, I miss
you,''' said Julia Esther Tepanguama, 47, who accompanied friends from her
indigenous community.

Accompanied by Ecuadorean reporters and cameramen, as well as high naval
officials in dress whites, the ships steamed for two hours off the coast of
Manta. About 35 miles from shore, the vessels started to sail in formation, not
more than 200 yards from each other, as the Rev. Cesar Leon celebrated an
emotional Mass that was piped from the Calicuchima to the other ships.

Mr. Coyago recalled how he saw his three sons off. They carried $600 among them
and had little idea where they would wind up, only that they would work in the
United States.

''Their dream was just to get out of poverty,'' he said. ''How can we live here
earning $5 a day?''

Some who participated in the memorial could not stop blaming themselves for the
death of a loved one.

Jose Zhunio, who worked at Gibson's Steakhouse in Chicago, said he encouraged
his son, Stalin, to join him. When Mr. Zhunio saw news of the sinking on
Telemundo in Chicago, he feared the worst.

''I did nothing but cry,'' he said. ''I had the intuition that he was on that
boat.''

Now back in Ecuador, with no intention of returning to Chicago, Mr. Zhunio said
he attended the ceremony on Saturday to ask his son for forgiveness, ''for all
the years of abandonment.''

''I also told him we would meet again,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Relatives prayed Saturday during a shipboard ceremony for 94
Ecuadoreans who drowned on the first leg of a risky trip to the United States.
(Photo by Carlos Villalon for The New York Times)Map of Ecuador highlighting
Manta: Three Ecuadorean Navy vessels sailed from Manta for a funeral.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              419 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrat Predicts Strategy of G.O.P.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: EDINBURG, Tex., Aug. 5


The Democratic Party chairman, Howard Dean, argued on Friday that Republicans
would try to make immigrants the ''scapegoats'' in the next election.

At a rally here a few miles from the Mexico border, Mr.

Dean garnered the loudest applause when he said Republicans would make
immigration a pivotal issue in coming elections, as they did same-sex marriage
and affirmative action in previous elections.

''Do you know who the scapegoats are going to be? Immigrants,'' he said. ''In
Colorado, the chairman of the Republican Party endorsed Tom Tancredo for
re-election. That is morally reprehensible. The governor of California, a
supposed moderate Republican, invited the Minutemen to visit California. We do
not need vigilante justice.''

Mr. Tancredo, a Republican representative, has angered Hispanic groups by
calling for tougher immigration enforcement and for a proposal to tax some of
the money immigrants send back to their home countries. Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger of California, in a radio interview in April, said the civilian
border patrols known as the Minutemen ''have done a terrific job.''

Mr. Dean spoke at a rally on the eve of the Democratic National Committee's
Hispanic Summit in San Antonio. Edinburg, 220 miles south of San Antonio, is
more than 80 percent Mexican-American.

Mr. Dean also criticized President Bush, contending that he rebuffed President
Vicente Fox of Mexico because of divisions over the Iraq war.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              420 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rural vs. City Ways at Issue in a Wisconsin Murder Trial

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN RUETHLING

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: MADISON, Wis., Sept. 8


A jury was chosen in this liberal bastion on Thursday for the trial of a Hmong
immigrant charged with killing six hunters, causing consternation in the North
Woods, where the shootings took place.

Some residents of Rice Lake, where all the victims lived or grew up, said they
were concerned that the jurors from Dane County, which encompasses Madison,
might not grasp the nuances of rural life.

''They are not as rural, and their culture and their lifestyle is quite
different from ours up here in the north,'' said Renee Gralewicz, an ethnic
studies instructor at the Rice Lake campus of the University of Wisconsin. ''So
we might have some people who really don't understand the culture of hunting and
the etiquette and the ethics and how all of that plays out on the jury.''

Judge Norman L. Yackel of Sawyer County Circuit Court ruled in June that the
jury for the trial of the immigrant, Chai Soua Vang, would be chosen from Dane
County after the defense argued that publicity and strong emotions in the Rice
Lake area jeopardized Mr. Vang's chances for a fair trial.

The concern about the composition of the jury stems in part from the racial
overtones of the case. Mr. Vang, 36, a refugee from Laos who lived in St. Paul,
Minn., told police that he had been sitting in a tree stand on private hunting
land about 25 miles northeast of Rice Lake one Sunday last November when the
hunters, who were white, swore at him and used ethnic slurs.

Mr. Vang said he shot at the hunters after someone shot at him first.

''The rest of the group scramble for something at the ATV so I shot them at the
ATV and ran toward them because I thought that they will get something a gun to
shoot me,'' Mr. Vang wrote in a letter from jail to a reporter for The Chicago
Tribune. The letter has been admitted as evidence in the case. ''I feel that
this incident is happen because people are not able to treated others with
respect like they want to be treated and hatred toward other people or race.''

One survivor told the police that Mr. Vang fired first.

Hmong hunters have complained of harassment from white hunters, some of whom
point to a different hunting culture as the root of the problem. Many residents
in Rice Lake, which is 230 miles northwest of Madison and has a population of
8,300, dispute the claim that racial tensions have been high in the area.

Larry Jarvela, 60, the mayor of Rice Lake, said he thought people from the city,
especially non-hunters, might have a hard time understanding the context of the
incidents and hunting culture.

As to residents' reaction to the jury selection, he said, ''I don't think they
necessarily like it, but I think on the other hand they understand why it had to
be done.''

Dan Rassbach, who is organizing construction of a park in Rice Lake in honor of
the slain hunters, said there was concern about lifestyle differences between
people in Dane and Sawyer counties. ''The hope is that they will understand the
situation,'' he said. ''If all the facts are presented, it should come out to be
a fair verdict.''

The 10 women and 4 men, all white, who were selected for the jury on Thursday
will be sequestered during the trial, which starts on Saturday and is expected
to last less than two weeks. Mr. Vang is charged with six counts of intentional
first-degree homicide and three counts of attempted homicide. He has pleaded not
guilty to all counts.

The Madison area is known as more liberal, diverse and Democratic than many
other parts of the state, a reputation that comes in part from the students and
faculty at the University of Wisconsin, who come from around the country and the
world.

''It is indeed part of Wisconsin's general political culture that Madison is
regarded as distinct from the rest of the state,'' said Dennis Dresang, a
professor of political science at the university.

University students and faculty members were vocal critics of Senator Joseph R.
McCarthy in the 1950's and also organized a strong antiwar movement during the
Vietnam War.

Donald Downs, another political science professor at the university, said
Wisconsinites tended to consider people in the Madison area elite and better
educated than people from other parts of the state, and he said hunting was less
prevalent there than in northern Wisconsin.

About 130 potential jurors came to court for jury selection on Thursday. Some
200 jurors had already been dismissed based on written answers to more than 60
questions in a questionnaire over the past few weeks.

During the process, Mr. Vang sat quietly in a dark green suit, white shirt and
tie. Four of his family members were watching from a television monitor in
another courtroom but would not talk to members of the media.

Judge Yackel said many jurors indicated in the questionnaires that they had
heard about the case, and he asked them to put aside that information. ''I guess
what we're asking you to do is unring a bell,'' he said at the beginning of the
selection. ''That may be difficult for some and impossible for others.''

Nine jurors were excused during the selection process because they said they had
a conflict of interest or would not be able to separate prior knowledge of the
case to make a judgment based solely on evidence.

Peg Lautenschlager, the state attorney general who is prosecuting the case at
the request of Sawyer County, asked potential jurors about their experiences
with weapons, confrontation, violence and hunting.

Jonathan Smith, one of Mr. Vang's lawyers, focused on his client's presumed
innocence and asked whether jurors could be objective in light of intense media
coverage of the incident.

''Does everyone agree that Mr. Vang as he sits here this morning is presumed
innocent?'' Mr. Smith asked. ''Does anyone have a fear of turning in a verdict
of acquittal?''

Mr. Smith also said Mr. Vang's race should not enter into the deliberations and
asked potential jurors if that or the number of charges would influence their
objectivity.

Mr. Vang's lawyers are expected to argue self-defense, having ruled out a mental
illness defense, and they have asked the judge to provide the jury with a legal
definition of the term.

Mr. Vang faces life in prison if convicted.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chai Soua Vang, a Hmong immigrant charged with killing six
hunters, conferred yesterday with his lawyers. (Pool photo by John Maniaci)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              421 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Tunic-Blouse Craze, It's See and Be Seen in Sequins

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1020 words


When Parveen Hussein Javed opened a tiny clothing store in Astoria, Queens two
and a half years ago, she called it Pun Jab Fashions and figured its customers
would all be South Asian immigrants like her. But she was in for a surprise.

''I realize, American people like this more than Pakistani and Indian people!''
she said, describing her epiphany when hot pink and purple tunic blouses flew
off the shelves and into the shopping bags of other New Yorkers. As she laughed
at the recollection, people walking past the store, on 34th Street near 30th
Avenue, stopped to admire colorful silk or cotton tops for $15 to $19.99 and
spangled slip-on shoes at $20 a pair.

Styles went ethnic everywhere this summer, from Saks Fifth Avenue to the 99-cent
store. By any name -- kurti, khameez, or tunic top -- the Indian or
Pakistani-style blouse was one of the season's mass-fashion crazes for women,
closely behind the ubiquitous beaded slipper-shoe.

Fashion has always been open to the exotic, but in New York these days, where
record immigration and soaring apartment rents have intertwined the everyday
lives of the hip and the foreign in neighborhoods like Astoria, such fusion
seems to occur faster than ever.

''It hit everybody -- everybody likes that style,'' said Nalan Avdovic, the
manager of a Bolton's store in Midtown Manhattan. Ms. Avdovic, who left her
native Turkey for New York a decade ago and lives in Astoria herself, said she
had noticed Ms. Hussein's success on her walks to the subway. The popularity of
Pakistani shoes has even made her wonder about the broader appeal of, say,
embroidered Turkish slippers.

''Maybe next year,'' she said.

For now, it is all she can do to keep her Bolton's store, near Rockefeller
Center, supplied with the popular polyester-and-silk georgette version of an
Indian tunic with embellishments -- metallic threads, shiny beadwork, pearly
sequins. She tallies sales daily for Bolton's buyers. When trends turn into
rages in a New York chain that specializes in trendy, off-priced women's
clothing, said Linda Forman, one of its veteran buyers, ''if you snooze, you
lose.''

And that means that most of the summer's Indian tunics, unlike those at Pun Jab
Fashions, are mass-produced in China.

''I must have shipped 300,000 tunics in the last six months,'' said Randy
Marder, whose wholesale company, Ninety, designs tunics in the garment district
of Manhattan but produces them primarily in Jiangsu Province in China, for
customers that he said include Macy's, Nordstrom and Dillard's.

''What's good about tunics, they're light enough that you can fly them in.''

For the quickest turnarounds, however, many suppliers maintain some domestic
production. Daniel Shalev, for example, who owns a wholesale apparel company,
Novelty Plus, has a small factory in Brooklyn, as well as half a dozen
subcontractors around the city that use shortcuts like ready-made rolls of
sequins.

And though Chinese factories now have the technology to mimic handwork, Mr.
Marder said he sometimes turned to India for real handcrafting.

There are only a few signs of bead fatigue. Outside Bolton's Rockefeller Center
store recently, a Senegalese vendor had trouble selling Chinese mesh-and-spangle
shoes for $3 a pair. But a block away, at Kenneth Cole on Fifth Avenue, more
Moroccan- or Indian-looking Chinese-made shoes, called Arabian Nights and Taj
Mahal, had sold out at $69 and $98.

A publicist there pointed to a celebrity seal of approval: she said that
according to People magazine, Britney Spears recently chose $48 versions of the
shoe, under Cole's TriBeCa label, as party favors for women guests at her baby
shower.

In India and Pakistan, where intricately embellished shoes sell in the street
like flip-flops for a few dollars and tunic shirts date back thousands of years,
some people must be scratching their heads over the West's renewed love affair
with old standards. Even for a young Pakistani-American woman like Naima Afridi,
25, whose ambition is to design clothes that meet Islamic standards of modesty
while appealing to American Muslim women, it is all a little hard to fathom.

''I've seen this clothing all my life,'' Ms. Afridi said. ''The ornate shoes and
the tunics and everything, they're just everyday-type items.'' Her own fashion
preference, she said, is for jeans and ''ergonomic-looking sneakers, like
Pumas.''

And yet at home in Edison, N.J., she recently found herself digging in the
closet for a pair of unworn wedding shoes sent ages ago by Pakistani relatives.
Now, she confessed, ''they're clearly, like, cool.''

The question of how that happened can easily turn into a chicken-or-egg debate.
At Saks, where customers snap up $3,000 versions of the tunic in bead-encrusted
silk brocade, Sonja Kadosh, a sales associate, contended that luxury designers
like Badgley Mischka and Naeem Khan touched off the trend. At Kenneth Cole, a
shoe salesman, Andrew Waring, argued the other side: ''In this case, it started
low and went high,'' he said.

There were pop-culture explanations, too. Mr. Shalev, the wholesaler, linked the
rise of a Bollywood look to movies like ''Bride and Prejudice.'' Ms. Forman, the
buyer, spoke instead of a nostalgic revival of bohemian 70's style, which she
said might be in tune with a nascent antiwar mood.

But Ms. Hussein Javed, a naturalized citizen at the forefront of the wave that
has more than doubled the number of South Asian New Yorkers since 1990, suggests
that simple exposure may have done the trick. What's not to like? she asked,
listing the virtues of tunics in fabrics light enough for a heat wave,
long-sleeved for beach or air-conditioning, casual with jeans, but dressy with
the right skirt and shoes, or, better yet, with color-coordinated Pakistani
pants.

Her joy now is teaching American customers how to wear the traditional
three-piece outfits that she could not wait to shed in favor of jeans when she
arrived 23 years ago.

''I felt embarrassed with these clothes,'' she recalled, fingering her striking
lavender-blue tunic. ''Now I feel proud, because everybody's wearing them.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Parveen Hussein Javed at her shop in Astoria, Queens, where
tunic blouses have been a hit with customers. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              422 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 13, 2005 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Asia: India: More Prisoner Releases With Pakistan

BYLINE: By Hari Kumar (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 78 words


India and Pakistan, continuing along their two-year old peace process, released
more prisoners: 152 Pakistanis from Indian jails and 435 Indians from Pakistani
jails.

Most had been jailed for illegal entry and were released at the Wagah border
crossing, 290 miles northwest of New Delhi. The two countries' leaders are
scheduled to meet later this week on the sidelines of the United Nations meeting
in New York to further advance the peace dialogue.  Hari Kumar (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 2005



CORRECTION: A report in the World Briefing column on Tuesday about a prisoner
exchange by Pakistan and India as part of their two-year-old peace process
referred incorrectly in some copies to the Wagah border crossing, 290 miles
northwest of New Delhi. It is where the prisoners were set free, not where they
were originally arrested.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              423 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 14, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malians in Paris

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 180 words



To the Editor:

''For Mali Villagers, France Is a Workplace and Lifeline'' (news article, Sept.
11) described Malian migrants in Paris whose remittances support extended
families at home. One young man you featured worked illegally in Paris, lived in
degrading conditions, was deported to Mali, but plans to return to France soon.

During six years of research with Malians in Paris, I have often questioned
migrants regarding the decision to undertake a dangerous journey to an
unwelcoming country where they live in unsanitary and crowded conditions for
minimal wages. The ultimate force behind this migration is intractable rural
poverty in West Africa.

In a conspiracy of silence, migrants refrain from fully informing relatives of
the harsh realities of their everyday lives.

Resolving the problem of illegal immigration lies not in deportation but in
global and local development that will allow Malians to imagine a rich future in
their own villages and cities.

Carolyn Sargent
Dallas, Sept. 12, 2005

The writer is an anthropology professor at Southern Methodist University.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              424 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 18, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Ships, Sailing Across the Web

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BLEYER

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT:
BATTERY PARK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 411 words


For David Annenberg, the sleuth work involved in tracing his and his wife's
genealogies has been nothing if not exhaustive.

Mr. Annenberg, a payroll technician who lives in Jamaica Estates, Queens, has
spent up to 20 hours a week for the past decade trying to trace the lines of
Annenberg, Jacobson, Friedman and Wollman from which the couple came.

He has already sifted through World War I draft cards, 1930's census records and
newspaper obituaries. He has gone what he calls ''cemetery-hopping'' in search
of ancestors' graves.

So Mr. Annenberg was understandably thrilled to learn that records from Castle
Garden, the immigrant reception center that predated Ellis Island in the 1800's,
were going to be published online.

The Web site, www.castlegarden.org, was inaugurated by the Battery Conservancy
in August, making public for the first time a database of millions of immigrants
who arrived in New York between 1820 and 1897. The information was culled from
ship manifests listing passenger names, ages, occupations, countries of origin
and dates of arrival. Between 1855 and 1890, the manifests came from the Castle
Garden Emigrant Depot, located in the historic Castle Clinton fortification in
the Battery.

The numbers alone on the site are staggering, listing 10 million people who
arrived on 41,000 ships from 200 countries. The list of their approximately
1,800 occupations reads like a feudal roll call, with jobs ranging from anvil
maker to spool winder to goatherd.

Warrie Price, president of the Battery Conservancy, said she was pleased with
the early success of the site, which had 100,000 visitors in its first few
weeks. ''People coming to the Web site are just so happy to find their
ancestors,'' she said. ''This is truly the story of the Battery. It's the story
of the Lower Manhattan waterfront welcoming immigrants at that time.''

Although the database's development was originally directed by an immigration
scholar with other academic researchers in mind, amateur genealogists like Mr.
Annenberg may get as much use from it as professionals.

Among the 1,625 Friedmans listed, from Aaron to Zinka, Mr. Annenberg found two
who could have been his wife's great-grandmother and great-uncle. And he
carefully examined the record of a Joseph Garbus, who came from Russia in 1896
and could have been his wife's great-grandfather.

''This is my puzzle,'' he explained. ''Castle Garden gives me some of the
missing pieces.''  JENNIFER BLEYER


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Did Joseph Garbus, center, pass through Castle Garden?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              425 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

CUNY Signs a Deal to Expand Educational Opportunities for Mexican-Americans

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 709 words


Mexicans and Mexican-Americans account for fewer than 2,000 of the 200,000
undergraduates at the City University of New York. But they are one of the
fastest-growing ethnic groups in New York. Yesterday, CUNY's chancellor signed
an agreement with Mexico's consul general in New York to try to expand
educational opportunities for this group.

The agreement calls for a scholarship program; radio, television and other
advertising; contacts with high schools where large numbers of students of
Mexican ancestry are enrolled; a training program for community leaders, run
with the American Jewish Committee; and a bilingual Web site put together by the
university and the consulate.

''Education is the key to economic, social and political advancement for any
immigrant community,'' Arturo Sarukhan, the consul general, said in an
interview. ''We're trying to use a wide-barreled shotgun to address a number of
issues at the same time.''

Hispanic students nationwide have high dropout rates and low rates of college
graduation, and students of Mexican descent have an especially poor track
record. In New York, recent immigrants from Mexico over 24 have the highest rate
of not completing high school (65 percent) and the lowest rate of college
graduation (5 percent), according to a recent report by the population division
of the New York City Planning Department.

City University, which has traditionally served as a pathway for immigrants, has
tried to reach out to Hispanics in recent years. Hispanic students now make up
about 26 percent of the university's undergraduates, including 18,000 of
Dominican ancestry and more than 12,000 of Puerto Rican descent.

The group from Mexico is far smaller but growing. ''This is an emerging ethnic
group that has been totally underserved educationally,'' CUNY's chancellor,
Matthew Goldstein, said yesterday. ''To the degree that this university can open
its arms and hearts and wisdom to these people, it will give them an opportunity
to improve their lives.''

To reach more Dominican immigrants this year, the university created a satellite
site in Washington Heights, with nondegree programs and credit-bearing college
courses. About 650 students are taking college courses there now.

The university also plans to open an admissions and counseling center on West
181st Street. And next month, CUNY-TV will start ''Nueva York,'' a
Spanish-language program (with English captions) about the Hispanic communities
of New York.

But Jay Hershenson, a university vice chancellor, said that because of the fast
growth of the Mexican community and its enormous educational needs, it made
sense to single out the group specifically.

Other states, like California and Texas, have much larger Mexican immigrant
populations, but until recently, they were a small presence in New York. The
City Planning report, ''The Newest New Yorkers 2000,'' said that Mexicans were
now the fifth-largest immigrant group in New York, up from 17th in 1990. And
their growth is expected to continue.

Some CUNY colleges are also paying more attention to Mexican immigrant issues.
Lehman College in the Bronx, where nearly half the students are Hispanic,
recently hired an expert in Mexican-American literature, and Ricardo R.
Fernandez, Lehman's president, said he hoped to recruit other experts in
Mexican-American topics.

Mr. Sarukhan said that access to education was a ''huge challenge'' for his
community and especially for illegal immigrants. He said that primary and
secondary education were also crucial, but that with limited resources, it made
sense to start with higher education.

The scholarship program, which he said would start next fall, will be financed
by the Mexican government, which will create similar programs in other American
cities. The details are not yet set. But Mr. Sarukhan said he expected 50 to 80
scholarships, each worth at least $1,000 a year.

He said that he was working with City University because it had demonstrated an
understanding of the problems of Mexican students.

''CUNY is the only institution in New York that said, 'We want to do this,''' he
said. ''The doors have not opened at other education institutions the way they
have at CUNY. If they did, that would be stupendous.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arturo Sarukhan, left, Mexico's consul general in New York,
discussing education with Ricardo R. Fernandez, president of Lehman College.
(Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              426 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amid Many Fights Over Qualifications, A Bush Nomination Stalls in the Senate

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and STEPHEN LABATON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: POLITICAL
APPOINTEES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1101 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23


Faced with accusations that the Bush administration is stocking the government
with unqualified cronies, the Republican chairwoman of the Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee is holding up the nomination of a
lawyer with little background in immigration or customs to head the law
enforcement agency in charge of those issues.

Democrats have seized on the political fury that developed over the apparent
lack of qualifications of Michael D. Brown, the director, and others in the
Federal Emergency Management Agency who were called on to deal with the calamity
caused by Hurricane Katrina. Day after day, Democratic lawmakers have begun
aggressively challenging the credentials of people President Bush wants to place
in midlevel government positions.

The homeland security chairwoman, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, says she now
wants to inquire further into the qualifications of Julie L. Myers to be
assistant secretary of homeland security for immigration and customs
enforcement.

The senior Democrat on the Senate committee, Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut,
said Friday that he was not persuaded by a confirmation hearing last week that
Ms. Myers, who has worked the last four years at the White House and in several
agencies, satisfied the legal requirement that the official in charge of the
immigration agency have at least five years' experience in law enforcement and
management.

Ms. Myers, 36, is on her honeymoon and cannot be immediately called to testify
again. She has strong Republican connections and is the niece of Gen. Richard B.
Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Before she joined the Bush
administration, she was a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn.

The White House continued to express support for her Friday.

''Julie Myers is well known and respected throughout the law enforcement
community, and she has a proven track record as a strong and effective
manager,'' said Erin Healy, a presidential spokeswoman.

In addition to the questions about Ms. Myers, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan has
objected to the nomination of Stewart Baker to be assistant secretary of
homeland security for policy. Mr. Baker, who won committee approval despite Mr.
Levin's opposition, is an accomplished technology lawyer, but he has little
experience in disaster management.

At the same time, the Center for American Progress, a research institute for
out-of-office Democratic policy experts, has questioned whether Andrew B. Maner
is qualified for his position as chief financial officer of the Homeland
Security Department, which has a budget of about $35 billion and more than
180,000 employees. Mr. Maner's main government experience before joining this
administration was a job in the White House press office under the first
President Bush.

The questions of credentials are not limited to homeland security. For example,
the main experience of Brian D. Montgomery, who in June became assistant
secretary for housing and federal housing commissioner, was performing advance
work in the Bush presidential campaign of 2000 and in the current
administration's first term.

Mr. Montgomery's responsibilities now include overseeing the $500 billion
Federal Housing Administration insurance portfolio. His background in housing is
limited to a few years as communications director of the Texas Department of
Housing and Community Affairs.

People who have studied the workings of the federal government for years say
this administration is no worse than President Bill Clinton's or any other
recent ones in the qualifications of political appointees.

''The vast majority of appointees are good, qualified and committed, but in
every administration you have people who are not up to the job,'' said Patricia
McGinnis, president of the Council for Excellence in Government, a national
nonprofit, nonpartisan organization devoted to improving government performance
through better management and leadership.

Paul C. Light, a political scientist at New York University, said, ''In every
administration, there are certain people you have to find places for: people who
worked on your campaign or were contributors or are well connected with other
politicians.''

Clay Johnson III, who was head of the White House personnel office for the first
three years of the current Bush administration and is now deputy budget
director, said Mr. Bush's appointees had been ''superbly qualified,'' in large
part because the president emphasized selecting candidates who were committed to
carrying out his policy objectives.

Across the government, there are more than 3,000 executive positions the
president can fill without regard to Civil Service rules. They range from those
of cabinet officers to personal secretaries. About 500 are subject to Senate
confirmation.

The trick for any president, Mr. Light said, is to fill the top jobs and those
that require particular expertise with especially qualified people and then find
other positions for job seekers with political or personal connections.

Certain departments and agencies tend to become dumping grounds for those with
connections. ''In a Republican administration,'' said G. Calvin Mackenzie, a
government professor at Colby College, ''HUD is like a witness protection
program.''

Democrats are more likely to put their political cronies in the Commerce
Department or the Small Business Administration.

David E. Lewis, an assistant professor of politics at Princeton, recently
published a study of 614 federal programs managed by 245 agencies. He looked at
how each program was assessed under the scale the Bush administration's Office
of Management and Budget uses to determine how well a program functions. Mr.
Lewis found that programs run by political appointees ''get systematically lower
management grades than bureau chiefs drawn from the Civil Service.''

One explanation for Mr. Lewis's finding may be rapid turnover. Political
appointees stay on the job an average of only two years or so, then take
private-sector jobs where they use the experience and contacts they have gained
in the government.

In an essay she wrote shortly after leaving the White House, Constance Horner,
who was director of presidential personnel for the first President Bush, said:

''The job seekers continue to come in order, as they say in many variations, 'to
give something back to the country' that's been good to them. They want only to
serve 'this president' and no other. Alternatively (or perhaps more explicitly)
they've 'paid their dues' and feel, however genteelly they put it, that they are
'owed something.'''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              427 of 427 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 28, 2005 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

DECLINE IS SEEN IN IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words


For years it seemed that immigration to the United States could only rise. Now a
new study, based on a year-by-year analysis of government data, shows a
startlingly different pattern: Migration to the United States peaked in 2000 and
has declined substantially since then.

And in New York, the historic gateway to the nation's newcomers, the influx is
now lower than it has been for more than 15 years.

Both phenomena underscore the growing importance of illegal immigrants from
Mexico, said Jeffrey S. Passel, a senior researcher at the Pew Hispanic Center,
a nonpartisan research group, which released the study yesterday. And they
indicate that post-9/11 security measures have had a greater impact on legal
immigration than on illegal entry.

Though the level of immigration to the United States has subsided by about 25
percent from a peak of 1.5 million a year in 1999 and 2000, more annual
immigration is now illegal than legal, the study found. Over all, the number of
immigrants entering the country has followed the growth of the American economy.
But in New York, the boom years did not draw the numbers of illegal Mexican
immigrants that drove up immigration rates elsewhere.

There are signs of a fresh upturn in immigration nationally, the study showed,
but the level remains at roughly what it was in the early 1990's before the
short-lived spike.

''Immigrants are still coming to New York,'' Mr. Passel cautioned, noting that
the state continued to receive more newcomers than all but three others,
California, Texas and Florida. ''The foreign-born population continues to grow.
What we're saying here about New York, specifically, is that their share of the
new arrivals has clearly gone down a lot.''

Indeed, the numbers Mr. Passel assembled show New York to be unique in an
unfamiliar way, since immigration is the city's legendary life's blood, the
heart of its claim to be the capital of the world: New York was the only state
that showed no upturn in immigrant arrivals at the turn of the 21st century.

Instead, its inflow of newcomers peaked between 1990 and 1995, gradually
declined as other states were peaking, and fell again after 2001, to about
90,000 annually, down from 168,000 in 1990. The vast majority of immigration to
the state is concentrated in New York City.

But Joseph Salvo, director of the City Planning Department's population
division, said immigration itself was only one factor in the city's growth. With
some 3.2 million foreign-born residents -- a record number -- high birthrates
among immigrants are key. More than 6 in 10 babies born in the city since 2000
have at least one foreign-born parent.

And the city's sheer diversity also makes a difference.

''New York, as you know, has all these vibrant immigrant communities, and over
time they serve as magnets for these immigrants,'' Mr. Salvo said. ''They keep
coming here almost irrespective of economic conditions.''

But not, Mr. Passel said, irrespective of more stringent security measures and
backlogs that have cut back legal immigration everywhere. Since the Department
of Homeland Security took over the gatekeeper role after Sept. 11, 2001, it has
been much harder to get a visa, he noted, and the admission of refugees has
plummeted.

The study calculated that the number of legal permanent residents entering the
United States declined to 455,000 last year from 647,000 at the peak in 2000.
The number of unauthorized immigrants, including those who overstay visitors'
visas, surpassed the number of legal entrants at the peak with 662,000 and
remained higher; it was estimated at 562,000 last year. Legal, temporary
residents declined to 174,000 from a peak of 268,000.

''There seems to have been a tradeoff here between legal and illegal
immigration,'' Mr. Passel said. ''Basically, we got about 1.1 to 1.2 million
throughout the '90s and post-2002. We're getting roughly the same number, but
the legals went down.'' The proportion of authorized immigrants went from more
than half to 4 out of 10, he said.

That affects New York more than other places, because it has a very high
percentage of legal immigrants, in contrast with states like Texas, Illinois and
even North Carolina and Arizona, he added, citing an earlier study that
estimated the percentage of immigrants who are legally in New York at more than
80 percent, compared with about 50 percent in many other states.

''On the legal immigration side, it's like a crowd pushing against a gate:
There's only room for so many to get through,'' he said. ''We have a real drop
in legal inflows. Illegal inflows went up. New York's affected by that, because
it doesn't get its proportionate share of illegals.''

In terms of immigrant destinations, the study confirms a long-recognized trend
away from the ''big six'' traditionally immigrant states -- California, Florida,
Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas -- which still receive 57 percent of
immigrants, toward so-called new growth states like Iowa and North Carolina. The
foreign-born pioneers to such states in the 1990's now serve as a magnet for
friends and relatives from abroad, especially when jobs are plentiful, Mr.
Passel said.

The study draws on five different types of data gathered by the Census Bureau,
including information about what year foreign-born respondents to the census
entered the country, and where respondents to interim surveys lived the year
before.

Mr. Salvo praised the study, but he pointed out that it did not address domestic
migration of the foreign born, which is now bringing more Mexican and Central
American immigrants to New York from the Southwestern states where they first
settled.

And Nancy Foner, a sociology professor at Hunter College who has written widely
on three centuries of immigration in the city, put the study's bottom line in
perspective.

''This is a decline, but it's still incredibly high,'' she said. ''If we're
getting 90,000 a year, that's huge. And the story of immigration in New York is
not just the story of continued new immigrants, but also the story of the
children of immigrants.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2005



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about a
study showing that migration to the United States has been declining
substantially after a peak in 2000 referred incorrectly in some copies to the
study's estimate of temporary residents who entered the United States legally
last year. It was 174,000, not 185,000.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
