
                               1 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Houston Students Protest

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 30


Dozens of students were arrested or cited on Thursday and a principal was
disciplined for flying a Mexican flag in front of the school as protests
continued in Texas over immigration legislation in Congress.

A spokesman for the school district would not say how the principal, Robert
Pambello, would be disciplined. Mr. Pambello is the principal at Reagan High
School, where 88 percent of the students are Hispanic.

The students who were arrested were among thousands in Texas and elsewhere who
left class this week to rally in support of immigrants.

They were arrested after 150 students left class and refused to get on buses to
return, Lt. Robert Manzo of the Houston police said. The police arrested 26
students there, and 5 ran away and were later found in a parking lot. All were
charged with violating the curfew ordinance, and one, a 19-year-old, was
arrested for hindering traffic, Lieutenant Manzo said.

The Houston school district police issued curfew violation citations to 67 other
students.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suit Challenges California's Tuition Rule for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14


About three dozen students filed a lawsuit against the University of California
on Wednesday, charging that it had violated federal law by allowing illegal
immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates at its campuses while maintaining
higher rates for out-of-state students.

The students, all from out of state, are represented by a legal team that
includes Kris W. Kobach, a conservative lawyer and former Justice Department
official who shaped national immigration policy under former Attorney General
John Ashcroft. Mr. Kobach said the policy discriminates against out-of-state
students who are American citizens and pay higher tuition than students who are
in this country illegally.

''Citizen students have been mortgaging their futures and taking on really heavy
student loans,'' Mr. Kobach, a law professor at the University of
Missouri-Kansas City, said in a telephone interview from Sacramento, where he is
working with the firm of Ropers, Majeski, Kohn & Bentley. ''Meanwhile, they see
aliens who are unlawfully present in the United States getting a massive subsidy
from the State of California.''

The move plunges California into the midst of a national debate over how to
handle the millions of students living in this country illegally.

Federal law requires state universities that offer in-state tuition rates to
illegal immigrants to do the same for students from other states, imposing a
steep financial barrier to the policy. But since 2001, nine states, including
California, have passed laws to circumvent that requirement, according to the
National Conference of State Legislatures.

Supporters say children who are illegal immigrants did not choose to enter the
United States illegally and can make valuable contributions to society if
allowed to continue their studies.

Ravi Poorsina, a spokeswoman for the University of California, said it allows
students who have attended local high schools for three years and graduated from
a local high school to benefit from in-state tuition rates. Students who are
illegal immigrants must also sign an affidavit saying they are applying for
legal residency.

Ms. Poorsina said that in the 2003-2004 school year, about 390 illegal
immigrants paid in-state tuition, currently about $6,700 a year. Out-of-state
students pay about $24,500 a year. ''We believe it's not in conflict with
federal law,'' she said of the university's policy.

But the adoption of this policy by some states has stirred others to another
action. This year, seven states considered passing laws barring illegal
immigrants from benefiting from in-state tuition rates, the Conference of State
Legislatures said.

Mr. Kobach, who helped shape the Justice Department's policy of tracking and
deporting thousands of Arab and Muslim illegal immigrants in the aftermath of
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, filed a similar suit in Kansas in 2004.
It was dismissed on technical grounds but is now on appeal.

Mr. Kobach has received support from the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a Washington group that advocates strict limits on immigration. The
group has provided research and assistance in finding plaintiffs.

Chaning Jang, a senior at the University of California, Davis, said he joined
the lawsuit after reading an advertisement placed by the lawyers in a college
newspaper. ''It's kind of an insult that illegal immigrants who aren't U.S.
citizens get more than we do,'' said Mr. Jang, 21, of Hilo, Hawaii.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Top Senator Parts Ways With Bush On Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11


The Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee is circulating a draft
of a compromise immigration bill that does not include guest worker provisions
favored by President Bush.

The draft from the lawmaker, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, opens a new
stage in an emotional debate that is expected to play a major role in elections
in many states next year. It has already divided the Republican Party, pitting
talk-radio populists hostile to illegal immigrants against businesses seeking
willing workers and religious groups with humanitarian concerns.

In a letter to colleagues, Mr. Specter called his document ''a discussion draft
intended to move the debate forward in anticipation of the Senate taking up
immigration reform early next year.'' He added, ''I do not necessarily endorse
every provision included.''

But proponents of a more open immigration policy, such as Mr. Bush has proposed,
said they were disappointed in Mr. Specter's starting point. The president has
called for an expanded temporary worker program that would be open to illegal
immigrants currently in the country, a group estimated at more than eight
million. The administration initially proposed offering such temporary workers a
path toward permanent legal status as well, but officials have recently dropped
that provision.

Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, have sponsored a bill that incorporates the administration's
original goals. Conservative critics call that proposal ''amnesty'' because it
would accept people who entered the country by breaking the law.

In contrast, Mr. Specter's early draft hews more closely to a rival bill
sponsored by Senators John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona, both
Republicans. Like that proposal, which emphasizes bolstering border security and
enforcement of immigration law, Mr. Specter's draft would require illegal
immigrants to return to their home countries before applying for re-entry as
temporary workers. And it would require them to leave again after a maximum of
six years in that role.

Blair C. Jones, a spokesman for the White House, said Friday that the president
was ''pleased that Congress is continuing to address this important issue.''

''The administration,'' Mr. Jones added, ''is continuing to consult with
Congress to discuss realistic, comprehensive immigration reform.''

But J. Kevin Appleby, an immigration lobbyist for the United States Conference
of Catholic Bishops, called the starting point in the Specter draft
''troubling.'' Mr. Appleby argued that requiring illegal immigrants with ties in
the United States to go home was ''not workable'' and that the obligation to
leave again would keep them from coming ''out of the shadows.''

Still, Senate aides said Mr. Specter's draft served as a marker to ensure that
his committee would play a role in shaping any legislation. By starting the
debate, he has made it harder for Senate leaders to take up on the floor a more
restrictive immigration bill that might be passed by the House, where
conservative opponents of the president's proposal have a stronger hand.

Blain Rethmeier, a spokesman for Mr. Specter, said the senator had not taken a
position on the terms of the guest worker program and was merely seeking to
jump-start the debate.

Laura Capps, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kennedy, said his staff was optimistic that
the final bill would more closely resemble the proposal he has advanced with Mr.
McCain.

''We are glad that Senator Specter is moving forward with comprehensive
immigration reform,'' Ms. Capps said. ''It is long overdue.''

But the nonpartisan political analyst Charles Cook questioned whether
Republicans would seek to take up so divisive a measure in an election year. The
immigration debate, Mr. Cook said, is already ''white hot on the Republican
side.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Arlen Specter, right, and the White House adviser Karl
Rove after attending President Bush's speech in Pennsylvania yesterday. (Photo
by Jason Reed/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and the Law

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 153 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Street-Corner Immigration Reform'' (editorial, Feb. 25):

As an immigration lawyer, I have observed the saga of illegal immigrant workers
from a more detailed perspective than most Americans. The only crime that many
of these workers committed was the desire to establish a better life for
themselves and their families by coming here. From a humanistic point of view,
it is a shame that they are not afforded the opportunity to realize that dream.

Nonetheless, a law that would permit illegal immigrants to remain here rewards
lawlessness and laziness. However understandable the motives, these immigrants
have broken the law.

The reason that we stand by idly while illegal immigration continues is that we
have become a nation of complacent, self-indulgent fat cats -- too spoiled to do
the grunt work that these folks eagerly undertake.

Constantinos E. Scaros
Cliffside Park, N.J., Feb. 25, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hastert Hints at Compromise on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 29


Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said Wednesday that he and other House Republicans
recognized the need for a guest-worker program, opening the door to a possible
compromise with the Senate on fiercely debated immigration legislation.

''We're going to look at all alternatives,'' Mr. Hastert, an Illinois
Republican, said at a news conference. ''We're not going to discount anything
right now. Our first priority is to protect the border. And we also know there
is a need in some sections of the economy for a guest-worker program.''

Many House Republicans and conservatives in the Senate still oppose any
legislation that would grant citizenship to illegal immigrants, like the bill
passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday. And as the Senate began its
debate on immigration on Wednesday, Republicans were deeply divided over the
fate of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States.

Mr. Hastert's comments were the first public hint of an olive branch.

Senator Arlen Specter, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said he was
heartened by the remarks. He said they were a significant shift for the House,
which defied President Bush's call for a temporary-worker program and passed a
border security bill in December that would criminalize illegal immigrants.

Since then, Mr. Bush and business groups have urged Republicans to support a
temporary-worker program to help fulfill the economy's needs for labor.

''I'm very pleased that Speaker Hastert has demonstrated flexibility on that
issue,'' Mr. Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican, said, adding that he was
prepared to support a compromise that would not provide a path to citizenship
for all illegal immigrants in an effort ''to present an even more balanced
approach.''

On Monday, before his committee voted, Mr. Specter proposed a compromise that
would require illegal immigrants to return home briefly after spending six more
years in this country. They could then participate in a temporary-worker program
or move toward citizenship if they are highly skilled, hold supervisory
positions or have a close relative who is a citizen or permanent resident.

Mr. Specter and his committee ultimately voted for the legislation that would
grant all illegal immigrants the possibility of citizenship.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Religion: Religious Leaders Take A Stand On Immigration

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 100 words


As Congress takes up immigration reform, Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick of
Washington; the Rev. Robert Edgar, general secretary of the National Council of
Churches; and other Christian and Jewish religious leaders announced that they
would support legislation to legalize illegal workers, institute a program for
temporary workers and reunite families separated by immigration laws. The
religious leaders said they were opposing a bill, H.R. 4437, the Border
Protection, Antiterrorism and Illegal Immigration Act of 2005, that would
stiffen enforcement and restrict immigration.   LAURIE GOODSTEIN (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Wanted: Legal Would Be Nice, but Illegal Will Suffice

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Who Will Work the Farms?;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

DATELINE: KINSTON, N.C.


In the plainspoken manner common to her fellow farmers, Faylene Whitaker has a
message for members of Congress struggling to overhaul the nation's immigration
law.

''We would rather use legal workers,'' said Ms. Whitaker, who grows tobacco,
tomatoes and other crops on the 500-acre farm she and her husband own in the
Piedmont region of North Carolina. But ''if we don't get a reasonable guest
worker program we are going to hire illegals.''

Ms. Whitaker knows what she is talking about. Indeed, she is one of the few
farmers in the United States to employ legal immigrant guest workers. Others are
not exactly lining up to join the program.

The experience of farmers like Ms. Whitaker underscores why most experts say
that simply tightening the border with Mexico will not work.

To curb illegal immigration, they say, the government needs both carrots and
sticks: legal work channels for future immigrants and the current population of
workers unlawfully in the country along with a much more effective bar against
hiring illegal labor.

''The punch line is, guest workers are going to cost you more money,'' said Phil
Martin, professor of agricultural and resource economics at the University of
California, Davis. For a guest worker program to work, he added, ''the
prerequisite is you have to have illegal immigration under control.''

When immigration rules were last overhauled in 1986 -- legalizing more than
three million unlawful immigrants and supposedly banning the employment of
illegal workers in the future -- Congress allowed for a vast seasonal guest
worker plan. It was intended to ensure that farmers could continue to get the
cheaper foreign labor they wanted, but in a legally acceptable way.

It has not worked out. Despite expectations that growers would flock to the
guest worker program, named H-2A, it never took off: fewer than 25,000 farm
workers came to the United States on temporary guest worker visas in 2004, the
last year with figures available.

It is not as if growers do not need the foreign labor: according to farmers' own
estimates, about 70 percent of the 1.2 million hired workers tilling fields and
picking crops are illegal immigrants.

What went wrong? Despite the ostensible sanctions against businesses that hire
illegal workers, few employers were ever punished. So rather than go through the
more complex process of importing temporary workers legally, most chose the
cheaper and generally risk-free route of hiring illegal migrants who presented
themselves with forged papers.

Congress is once again debating how to cut off illegal immigration but this time
it has to deal with as many as 11 million unlawful immigrants in the United
States.

Some lawmakers are talking about erecting a high wall along the entire
2,000-mile border separating the United States from Mexico. Others are pushing
to declare all immigrants here illegally felons who would never be allowed to
take up legal residence in the United States.

But as long as the government looks the other way while employers are allowed to
fill their demands for cheap labor from a deep pool of foreigners desperate to
find work, hundreds of thousands more are expected to manage one way or another
to cross the border illegally every year in search of jobs.

''If there is a need for workers, they will find a way in, if you don't have a
method for satisfying the legitimate needs of American employers,'' said Senator
Arlen Specter, Republican from Pennsylvania and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, which has been trying to hammer out a new immigration bill to present
to the full Senate as early as next Monday.

But this time, Mr. Specter added, any new law must contain tougher sanctions
against an employer who ''knowingly hires someone that is not here legally.''

Like most employers of cheap labor, North Carolina's growers say they need
immigrant workers to stay afloat. ''We need a guest worker program because
somebody's got to work,'' said Kendall Hill, who grows tobacco, sweet potatoes
and other crops on 4,000 acres here in Kinston.

He gazes across the flat dirt of his farm toward the sheds that will house up to
120 immigrant H-2A workers at the peak of the sweet potato harvest in September.
''If not for Mexican workers,'' he adds, ''this country would be in chaos.''

As for illegal immigrants, many say that they would welcome a plan that allowed
them to work legally in the United States and return to their families in Mexico
every year.

Arturo Martinez Mendoza, an illegal immigrant harvesting mustard for $1.25 a box
on a farm near Faison, said he had even tried to get into the program. ''It was
full,'' he said, ''so I came in as a wetback.''

Jose Aharon Rivera Medrano, an H-2A worker from Mexico's northern state of
Durango, has worked on Mr. Hill's farm 10 months each year for the last 11
years. He is happy about the higher wages of $500 to $600 a week he receives
under the guest worker program than if he were working illegally, but the most
important thing, he said, ''is that you don't risk your life crossing the
border.''

According to Leticia Zavala, southern organizing director for the union known as
the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, there is a waiting list of 17,000 Mexican
workers who have come to North Carolina in the past and would like to return.

But the guest worker program has failed to bridge the gap between the farmers
and the workers. Farmers complain that the program is simply too expensive. It
sets a floor for pay -- a regional average of the wages in several farm
occupations -- that will rise this year to $8.51 an hour from $8.24 in 2005.
Farmers must also house the workers and pay workers' compensation.

Moreover, after a lawsuit spearheaded by the union against North Carolina
growers, a state court ordered farmers to pay all recruitment costs, including
the H-2A visa, recruiters' fees and round-trip transportation from home --
adding up to some $900 a worker.

''I've been 10 years on the program but I'm reaching the point of diminishing
returns,'' said Sam Crews, who employs six guest workers on his North Carolina
tobacco farm near the border with Virginia.

The guest worker plan has some advantages for growers: legal workers are more
dependable than illegal ones, they say. And it relieves them of any lingering
fears that their harvest might be in jeopardy if immigration authorities conduct
raids that disrupt the supply of illegal workers.

Yet growers have so many other complaints about the program that many are simply
dropping out. To be entitled to use guest workers, they must certify to the
Labor Department that they cannot find American workers for the job, a process
that they say is overly onerous.

And once non-H-2A immigrant workers are brought out of the shadows, farmers who
employ legal guest workers often find themselves being sued over working
conditions by immigrants' rights groups and other foes of the program.

Bruce Goldstein, executive director of the Farm Workers Justice Fund in
Washington, which has brought lawsuits against farmers, says there are good
reasons for such lawsuits.

''Farmers under the H-2A program are being sued when they violate the law,'' Mr.
Goldstein said. ''They frequently violate the law. And employers have tremendous
bargaining power over workers who are too fearful to challenge unfair or illegal
conduct.''

For many farmers, then, illegal immigrants simply provide a cheaper alternative
that involves far less bother than the guest worker program. North Carolina
farmers can harvest their crops paying $6 to $6.50 an hour -- no workers comp,
no recruitment fees -- to ''green card'' workers or ''otherwise documented''
workers. Those are euphemisms for immigrants unlawfully in the United States,
who typically show up with a fake green card to get a job.

''Workers provide us with ID and Social Security cards to keep me in compliance
and keep them in compliance, but I have no clue of their provenance,'' said one
Wilson County tobacco, cotton and sweet potato farmer who spoke only on
condition of anonymity to avoid exposing his work force to scrutiny from the
authorities.

Farmers in North Carolina still employ more legal guest workers than in any
other state, but their numbers are dwindling. At their peak in 2000, over 1,000
farmers in the growers' association employed 10,000 guest workers. This year,
about 500 farmers are left, and they will import only about 5,000 workers.

Some of those missing farmers were driven out by increased competition in the
global tobacco market. Others have simply switched to illegal immigrant workers.
And if things do not change, many farmers say, the system may well disappear
altogether.

''When the H-2A program prices itself out, I'm not growing anything else,'' said
Lee Whicker, who employs a dozen guest workers on his tobacco farm near
Fayetteville. ''I'm done with it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Mexican flag hangs in Duplin County, N.C. Arturo Martinez
Mendoza, middle, is an illegal immigrant, while Jose Aharon Rivera Medrano has
''guest'' status. (Photographs by Karen Tam for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 ''We need a guest worker program because somebody's got to work,'' said Kendall
Hill, who farms 4,000 acres in Kinston, N.C. (Photo by Karen Tam for The New
York Times)(pg. C4)Graph shows:AVERAGE ANNUAL ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS in 2004526,000
est.WORKERS ENTERING ON H-2A VISAS in 200422,141(Sources by Pew Hispanic Center,
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services)(pg. C1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BILL TO BROADEN IMMIGRATION LAW GAINS IN SENATE

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27


With Republicans deeply divided, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted on Monday
to legalize the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants and ultimately to grant
them citizenship, provided that they hold jobs, pass criminal background checks,
learn English and pay fines and back taxes.

The panel also voted to create a vast temporary worker program that would allow
roughly 400,000 foreigners to come to the United States to work each year and
would put them on a path to citizenship as well.

The legislation, which the committee sent to the full Senate on a 12-to-6 vote,
represents the most sweeping effort by Congress in decades to grant legal status
to illegal immigrants. If passed, it would create the largest guest worker
program since the bracero program brought 4.6 million Mexican agricultural
workers into the country between 1942 and 1960.

Any legislation that passes the Senate will have to be reconciled with the tough
border security bill passed in December by the Republican-controlled House,
which defied President Bush's call for a temporary worker plan.

The Senate panel's plan, which also includes provisions to strengthen border
security, was quickly hailed by Democrats, a handful of Republicans and business
leaders, as well as by the immigrant advocacy organizations and church groups
that have sent tens of thousands of supporters of immigrant rights into the
streets of a number of cities to push for such legislation in recent days.

But even as hundreds of religious leaders and others rallied on the grounds of
the Capitol on Monday, chanting ''Let our people stay!,'' the plan was fiercely
attacked by conservative Republicans who called it nothing more than an offer of
amnesty for lawbreakers. It remained unclear Monday night whether Senator Bill
Frist, the Senate majority leader, would allow the bill to go for a vote this
week on the floor or would substitute his own bill, which focuses on border
security. His aides have said that Mr. Frist, who has said he wants a vote on
immigration this week, would be reluctant to move forward with legislation that
did not have the backing of a majority of the Republicans on the committee.

Only 4 of the 10 Republicans on the committee supported the bill. They were the
committee chairman, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, and Senators Lindsey
Graham of South Carolina, Mike DeWine of Ohio and Sam Brownback of Kansas. All
eight Democrats on the committee voted in favor of the legislation.

The rift among Republicans on the committee reflects the deep divisions in the
party as business groups push to legalize their workers and conservatives battle
to stem the tide of illegal immigration. Mr. Specter acknowledged the
difficulties ahead, saying, ''We are making the best of a difficult situation.''
But he said he believed that the legislation would ultimately pass the Senate
and would encourage the millions of illegal immigrants to come out of the
shadows.

''We do not want to create a fugitive class in America,'' Mr. Specter said after
the vote. ''We do not want to create an underclass in America.''

''I think this represents a reasonable accommodation,'' he said, referring to
the divergent views on the panel. ''It's not a majority of the majority, but
it's a good number.''

Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, said Monday night that President
Bush was ''pleased to see the Senate moving forward on legislation.'' Mr. Bush
has repeatedly called for a temporary worker program that would legalize the
nation's illegal immigrants, though he has said such a plan must not include
amnesty.

''It is a difficult issue that will require compromise and tough choices, but
the important thing at this point is that the process is moving forward,'' Mr.
McClellan said.

Lawmakers central to the immigration debate acknowledged that the televised
images of tens of thousands of demonstrators, waving flags and fliers, marching
in opposition to tough immigration legislation helped persuade the panel to find
a bipartisan compromise.

''All of those people who were demonstrating were not necessarily here
illegally,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who sponsored the
legalization measures with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Mr. Kennedy described the people who would benefit from the bill as ''our
neighbors,'' adding: ''They're churchgoers. They're the shop owners down the
street. They're the people we know.''

The protesters were rallying in opposition to the security bill passed by the
House. The House bill would, among other things, make it a federal crime to live
in this country illegally, turning the millions of illegal immigrants here into
felons, ineligible to win any legal status. (Currently, living in this country
without authorization is a violation of civil immigration law, not criminal
law.)

The legislation passed by the Judiciary Committee on Monday also emphasized
border security and would nearly double the number of Border Patrol agents over
the next five years, criminalize the construction of tunnels into the United
States from another country and speed the deportation of illegal immigrants from
countries other than Mexico. But it also softened some of the tougher elements
in the House legislation.

Addressing one of the most contentious issues, the panel voted to eliminate the
provisions that would criminalize immigrants for living here illegally and made
an amendment to protect groups and individuals from being prosecuted for
offering humanitarian assistance to illegal immigrants.

Conservatives on the committee warned that the plan would generate a groundswell
of opposition among ordinary Americans who had been demanding tighter controls
at the border and an end to the waves of illegal immigration.

Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said the Judiciary panel ''let the
American people down by passing out a blanket amnesty bill.''

Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, said the foreign workers would take
American jobs during a recession. ''Get ready for a real tough time,'' Mr. Kyl
said, ''when American workers come to your office and say, 'How did you let this
happen?' ''

Under the proposal, participants in the temporary worker program would have to
work for six years before they could apply for a green card. Any worker who
remained unemployed for 60 days or longer during those six years would be forced
to leave the country. (Employers could petition for permanent residency on
behalf of their employees six months after the worker entered into the program.)

The legalization plan for the nation's illegal immigrants would require those
without documents to work in the United States for six years before they could
apply for permanent residency. They could apply for citizenship five years after
that. Immigrants would have to pay a fine, back taxes and learn English.

Mr. Graham called it an 11-year journey to citizenship.

''To me that's not amnesty,'' he said. ''That is working for the right over an
11-year period to become a citizen. It is not a blanket pardon.''

''The president believes and most of us here believe that the 11 million
undocumented people are also workers,'' Mr. Graham said. ''We couldn't get by as
a nation without those workers and without those people.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators, clockwise from far left, Jon Kyl, Republican of
Arizona
Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio
Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas
Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina
and Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, conferring yesterday on the
immigration bill. (Photo by Joe Marquette/Bloomberg News)(pg. A12)
 Demonstrators protesting an immigration measure at the Capitol yesterday
displayed a Honduran flag. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Officials Defend Ploys To Catch Immigrants

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 569 words


Despite criticism from advocates for immigrants, federal immigration officials
said in recent days that they would not forswear the practice of impersonating
occupational safety officials to round up illegal immigrants.

Last July, federal agents arrested 48 workers at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base
in North Carolina on charges of being illegal immigrants after the agents
tricked the workers into attending what was billed as a mandatory training
session sponsored by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

Afterward, the federal Labor Department, North Carolina officials and immigrant
and job safety advocates criticized the ploy. They argued that the sting might
cause immigrant workers to distrust safety officials just as the authorities
were stepping up efforts to reduce the disproportionately high injury rate among
Hispanic workers.

Lawyers for several labor and immigrant groups said yesterday that they were
dismayed that when they met with officials at Immigration and Customs
Enforcement on Jan. 30, the officials refused to rule out again using a
safety-related ruse to lure immigrant workers.

Marielena Hincapie, director of programs at the National Immigration Law Center,
said, ''They said they would not commit to not doing this anymore, despite the
fact that this would have a chilling effect on workers.''

Ana Avendano, a lawyer with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., also criticized immigration
officials for not providing the assurances that safety advocates were seeking.

''We told them that the population of workers that we're dealing with is
suffering the highest mortality rate and highest injury rate on the job,'' Ms.
Avendano said. ''If immigration officials are going to use OSHA as a ruse, all
they will do is reduce the trust of workers to go to OSHA with concerns about
safety problems.''

Dean Boyd, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, emphasized that
ruses were standard law enforcement policy. ''We're not going to rule out valid
investigative techniques,'' he said.

Mr. Boyd said that if immigration officials were to do such a sting in the
future, it would be only after coordinating with federal safety officials.

OSHA officials repeated yesterday the stance they took after the July raid,
saying the agency worked to build trust with Hispanic workers. They also said
they did not condone using the agency's name in this type of ruse.

At a Senate hearing in October, Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland
security, said it was appropriate to use ruses, but he added that those
involving health and safety were not appropriate.

Mr. Boyd said the employment of illegal immigrants at sensitive facilities like
military bases posed a serious threat to domestic security. He said that, given
their illegal status, they might be vulnerable to exploitation by criminals or
terrorists.

''That's why we're aggressively targeting these types of workers at sensitive
facilities,'' Mr. Boyd said. ''We've got an obligation under the law to do what
we need to do to remove those people immediately from a position where they
could do potential harm.''

On Thursday, immigration agents arrested nine illegal immigrants who were
working for a subcontractor at the Dugway Proving Ground, a military testing
site southwest of Salt Lake City. Last month, immigration officials arrested 11
illegal immigrants at Tyndall Air Force Base near Panama City, Fla.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about federal immigration authorities'
defense of the practice of impersonating officials from the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration to catch illegal immigrants omitted credit for the
publication that first reported the development. It was Inside OSHA, a
newsletter.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Street-Corner Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 679 words


The illegal immigrants who trim our hedges, prepare our food and care for our
children have been compared to an invading army. If so, they have descended on a
land desperate for occupation. This is a nation that insists on paying as little
as possible for goods and services, and as long as it remains impractical to
send lawns, motel beds and dirty dishes overseas, determined immigrants and
semiporous borders will continue to feed the American addiction to cheap labor.

The problem with this arrangement is that it is unlawful and secretive, which
also means improvised and disorderly. Day laborers crowd street corners, Home
Depot parking lots and illegal rooming houses, unnerving their neighbors and
falling prey to wage abuses and injuries. Contractors, homeowners, factory farms
and slaughterhouses flout labor laws. Vigilante types rally to the border and to
talk-radio lines, lobbing martial metaphors.

President Bush promised long ago to restore sanity to the situation, with
tighter borders and a guest-worker program, but he has failed to deliver.
Hard-liners in his own party, fixated on border fortification and punishment for
the 11 million illegal immigrants already here, have stymied the search for
practical, humane solutions. The battle will heat up next week, as the Senate
Judiciary Committee begins debating several bills, including one from its
chairman, Arlen Specter, that would combine border security with a plan to allow
many illegal immigrants to work here legally.

Congressional action is long overdue. Without it, state and local authorities
have been trying to solve the problem on their own with piecemeal measures. A
flurry of legislation has become such a blizzard that advocacy groups are having
trouble keeping track. Georgia lawmakers, for example, have been trying to outdo
themselves in making illegal immigrants' lives as miserable as possible -- one
bill recently passed by the State House would impose a fee on people wiring
money out of the country if they could not prove they were here legally.

Other areas are bucking the nativist trend. The mayor of Greenport, N.Y., a tiny
village on Long Island, has opened his arms to all residents and proposes to
survey them, the legal and the illegal, to better determine what services they
need. The mayor, David Kapell, considers it a calculated provocation -- a
gesture of solidarity with his poorest neighbors and a cry of protest at federal
inaction.

Mr. Kapell's complaint is absolutely justified. Local officials like him live
and work in the real world, and while they wait for the federal government to do
its job, the task of restoring order has fallen to them. It is not their place
to become the immigration police or to crack down on policies that Washington
has shown no interest in fixing or enforcing. They need to keep streets safe,
protect public health and ensure that their communities are decent places for
everyone who lives there.

To do that, they should start small. They should help, not hinder, the nonprofit
groups and outreach centers that have sprung up in response to the influx. They
should offer resources to set up day-labor hiring sites to supplant the ad hoc
congregations of anxious would-be workers, gatherings that so often become
neighborhood flashpoints of anarchy and anger.

Immigration measures that rely only on punishment and deterrence are
unenforceable, in no small part because the public rejects their cruelty. They
are also almost inevitably counterproductive. Laws that make it a crime to help
illegal immigrants find work will make outlaws out of local leaders whose only
crime is to want to live in orderly, humane communities.

Setting up a hiring site with bare-bones amenities like benches and bathrooms is
not an indulgence of lawlessness. It is a common-sense tactic to help prevent
the exploitation of workers, to rein in unscrupulous contractors and to impose
some order on the chaos. It is smarter and more humane than the cruelty of
harassing legislation that hopes, somehow, to make all those men and women
disappear.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  Connecticut: Hartford: Officials To Lobby On Immigration

BYLINE: By William Yardley (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 134 words


The Republican mayor of Danbury, Conn., and the Democratic county executive of
Suffolk County said yesterday that they would create a national coalition of
local officials to lobby Congress and the White House to reform immigration
laws. Mayor Mark D. Boughton and County Executive Steve Levy have sought to curb
the impact of illegal immigrants in their areas by using code enforcement and
other means to address overcrowded housing and other issues. They said they
would invite 3,000 local officials to ''a summit on illegal immigration'' to be
held in Washington in February, according to a news release. They said their
agenda included stronger border enforcement and ''federal financial assistance
to local governments impacted by the current lack of federal border
enforcement.''   William Yardley (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tough Border Security Bill Nears Passage in the House

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13


The Republican-controlled House is poised to pass one of the toughest border
security measures in more than a decade, cracking down on illegal immigrants and
their employers and defying President Bush's call for a comprehensive bill that
would grant millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States a right
to work here temporarily.

The measure, expected to clear the House this week, would for the first time
make it a federal crime to live in the United States illegally. That provision
would turn millions of immigrants into felons, ineligible to win any legal
status. Currently, living in this country without a document like a visa or a
green card is a violation of civil immigration law, not criminal law.

The bill would also broaden the immigrant-smuggling statute to embrace those who
shield or offer support to illegal immigrants. Offenders, including employees of
social service agencies and church groups, could face up to five years in
prison.

The legislation would require the mandatory detention, until removal from the
country, of non-Mexican immigrants who are entering the United States illegally;
would increase financing for local sheriffs in border states to allow them to
detain illegal immigrants; and would toughen penalties for employers who hire
them.

The proposal, which would require the Department of Homeland Security to expand
greatly a fledgling system intended to verify the immigration status of all the
nation's employees, has been hailed by many conservatives in Congress as vital
to combating illegal immigration and tightening the border with Mexico.

The bill was approved by the House Judiciary Committee last Thursday. The
committee chairman, Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of
Wisconsin, said it would ''help restore the integrity of our nation's borders
and re-establish respect for our laws by holding violators accountable,
including human traffickers, employers who hire illegal aliens and alien gang
members who terrorize communities.''

But the bill has touched off a furor among some business leaders and moderate
Republicans, who support Mr. Bush's plan to grant temporary legal status to the
11 million illegal immigrants believed to be living in this country. In recent
weeks, a leader of the Chamber of Commerce and 15 Republican moderates have
signed letters to senior Republicans in the House, calling anew for enactment of
such a guest worker program.

With most analysts predicting that the leadership's measure will pass in the
House on Thursday, many of its critics are pinning their hopes on the Senate,
which is expected to take up a comprehensive immigration bill next year.
Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who sponsored a bipartisan bill
including a guest worker provision, said he felt deeply frustrated by the
leadership's bill even though he favored strong border enforcement.

''We have a massive work force out there that is undocumented, and we've got to
deal with them,'' Mr. Flake said. ''No one is suggesting that we deport everyone
who is here illegally. So that leaves us in a quandary: Do we pretend they don't
exist? Or do we bring them out of the shadows?''

''Hopefully,'' he said, ''the Senate will act responsibly and pass a guest
worker plan. I wish we were doing it here.''

In a swing through border states last month, Mr. Bush said any legislation
should include his guest worker proposal, which would allow those currently in
the United States illegally to work here legally for a few years before being
required to return home and, if they chose, apply for re-entry. He dismissed
concerns raised by some Republicans who say his plan amounts to amnesty for
lawbreakers.

''Amnesty would say to other illegal aliens, 'Come, and you can come into
America and get citizenship automatically,' '' Mr. Bush said. ''No, I'm for a
bill that strengthens our border by providing people with a tamper-proof
identity card to let them work in America for jobs Americans won't do, on a
temporary basis, and then go back to their country.''

Conservatives, however, still view the plan with suspicion. And with midterm
elections looming next year, some Republicans are reluctant to support a
proposal that they say remains unpopular with voters.

Many Democrats, including Representative Howard L. Berman of California, say
conservatives are supporting the House bill solely to gain political points, not
out of any belief that it will become law.

''There's a lot of anger out there,'' Mr. Berman said, ''so rather than solving
the problem, they're playing to the cheap seats.''

Representative John Culberson, a Texas Republican who supports the bill, said
that there was indeed anger and that conservatives in Congress seemed to be more
in touch with it than did the White House.

''Our constituents are berserk with fury over the unprotected borders,'' he
said. ''The borders have been entirely unprotected for far too long.''

Of fellow Republicans, Mr. Culberson said, ''We've got a tiny little handful
that want to pass guest worker legislation.''

''But until we get the borders under control,'' he added, ''we'll never win the
war on terror, and it's pointless to discuss the guest worker program.''

Erin Healy, a White House spokeswoman, said the House bill included security
measures that were ''a vital component to immigration reform.'' But she said the
Bush administration would push for broader immigration legislation.

''The Senate has already indicated that they plan to take action in the
beginning of next year on immigration legislation as well,'' Ms. Healy said.
''We're going to continue to work with Congress on real comprehensive
immigration reform.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the House Judiciary chairman. (Photo
by Matthew Cavanaugh/European Pressphoto Agency)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 7, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Local Officials Seek Help From U.S. on Immigration

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6


Gather 100 local officials from 30 states -- Democrats and Republicans from big
states and little ones -- and there are probably few issues on which all will
agree. But President Bush's record on illegal immigration apparently is one.

''It is a failure,'' said Mark D. Boughton, speaking on Monday at a gathering of
those officials here. Mr. Boughton, the mayor of Danbury, Conn., created a stir
last year when he sought, unsuccessfully, to have State Police troopers
deputized as immigration control agents.

''A terrible hardship for my taxpayers,'' said Gloria D. Whisenhunt, chairwoman
of the Forsyth County board of commissioners, in Winston-Salem, N.C. The schools
there are crammed with the children of illegal immigrants, she said.

''Enough is enough,'' said Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive and
co-organizer of the event. Mr. Levy became a sort of guiding light among local
officials around the country after he decided last summer to help shut down
boarding houses in Farmingville, N.Y., where hundreds of illegal immigrants
lived in crowded conditions.

''The federal government has to adopt a sane immigration policy,'' Mr. Levy
said.

The gathering, organized and convened here under the banner of the Coalition of
Mayors and County Executives for Immigration Reform, called for border security
and, most urgently, reimbursement to localities for the cost of dealing with a
problem its members say the federal government has ignored.

''In recent polls, 88 percent of the people said that illegal immigration is a
serious or 'somewhat serious' problem,'' Mr. Levy said. ''Yet there just seems
to be a disconnect between that and what the Congress and the media think.''

In the contentious national debate over what is called immigration reform, there
are a half-dozen factions at odds, factions representing the interests of
business, of labor, of immigrant advocates and opponents, of Republican
presidential hopefuls and Democratic partisans.

For good measure, because most illegal immigrants are Hispanic, the issue is
loaded with racial and ethnic overtones, a reality that Mr. Levy had to face
last summer when immigrant advocates in Suffolk County labeled his boarding
house sweeps as racist.

''But this group has nothing to do with racism or bigotry,'' said Robert
Vasquez, a county commissioner from Canyon County, Idaho. ''We are here because
we are elected United States officials, and it's our duty to uphold the laws.''

Major bills under review in the House and Senate promote an array of conflicting
responses to the question of how to define the issue, and how to deal with the
reality of 11 million illegal aliens in the United States. Among the suggested
solutions are amnesty, deportation, temporary worker status, permanent guest
work status and an impermeable wall at the Mexican border.

But Monday's assembly of local officials introduced a new faction into the fray.
This one, its members say, is composed of officials who must deal every day with
the realities of illegal immigration as they intersect with taxpayers.

The officials raised many questions for the federal government. Who pays for the
shuttering of boarding houses like those in Farmingville? Who pays for the extra
classroom space, the unreimbursed cost of medical care, the cost of police and
fire protection for the additional human lives? Where will they be housed?

The White House did not ignore the meeting, but at the last minute downgraded
the rank of its representative. In place of Ruben Barrales, a deputy assistant
to the president and White House director of intergovernmental affairs, who was
originally scheduled to attend, the White House sent a liaison to city
officials, Toby Burke.

Mr. Burke, who listened respectfully, at one point said the president was
seeking ''a comprehensive, not a piecemeal, solution'' to the problem of illegal
immigration. He said the president's proposal to create guest worker status for
some or all illegal aliens would not constitute an amnesty.

Then, while the officials vented for two hours with what seemed like the relief
of troubled individuals finding their first support group, Mr. Burke said little
else.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 18, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Breakthrough

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 522 words


The clock was running out on the Senate Judiciary Committee this week, and with
it the chances for a meaningful overhaul of the nation's immigration laws. After
weeks of work, the committee members faced a rigid deadline to get a bill ready
before next week's recess. But about all they had agreed on were various ways to
tighten the borders. It was increasingly likely that Congress's message to 12
million illegal immigrants would end up being this: Thanks for the help -- now
get out.

But in a startling pivot, so sharp you could almost hear it, a bipartisan
consensus emerged in the hearing room. Senator Arlen Specter, the committee's
chairman, endorsed the principle behind an earlier bill sponsored by Senators
John McCain and Edward Kennedy: that illegal immigrants who met strict criteria
and paid fines and back taxes should have a path to permanent residency and
citizenship.

Mr. Specter said he was all for that, as long as the country first cleared up
the backlog of three million foreigners seeking to come here through legal
channels. The panel also neared an agreement on a related proposal to allow
foreign guest workers to enter legally and earn permanent status. Mr. Specter
said he wanted a comprehensive bill ready when Congress reconvened on March 27,
the deadline set by the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, who has his own
hard-line border-tightening bill waiting in the wings.

The blowback was instantaneous. Mr. Frist announced that he would be putting his
own bill forward as an alternative to the committee's. Seventy-one House members
signed a letter saying that the Judiciary Committee's actions were
''fundamentally incompatible'' with the House's strident vision of immigration
reform, which completely rejects the idea of providing illegal immigrants any
path to legalization.

Mr. Specter often wilts under party pressure like lettuce in a broiler, but he
has shown admirable resilience in working to get a comprehensive immigration
bill to the Senate floor. His committee's emergent consensus, fragile but real,
has finally pointed to a way out of what has been a bitter struggle between
starkly conflicting visions of what America should do about immigration. For too
long the debate has been hijacked by stereotypes. The recent waves of newcomers
are not all potential terrorists living among us like pod people. Nor is every
last one a model-citizen-in-waiting.

The chances of finally fixing the immigration system depend on Congress's
recognition and acceptance of what President Bush has said for years: that
immigration reform is about far more than border enforcement, and that there is
a way to bring order and lawfulness to an unauthorized population without
compromising the values and traditions of our robust immigrant nation.

Mr. Specter's compromise has wisely elevated the discussion by endorsing a
balanced approach. That means making the borders more secure, trying to match
the supply of work visas with the demand, and sending this message to the
illegal immigrants who are already here: Come out of the shadows, and join your
neighbors in making America a better place.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands Rally in Cities for Immigrant Rights

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 24


Thousands of people across the country protested Friday against legislation
cracking down on illegal immigrants, with demonstrators in cities including Los
Angeles, Phoenix and Atlanta staging school walkouts, marches and work
stoppages.

Congress is considering bills that would make it a felony to be in the United
States illegally, impose new penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants
and erect fences along one-third of the border with Mexico. The proposals have
angered many Hispanics.

The Los Angeles demonstration led to fights between black and Hispanic students
at one high school, but the protests were largely peaceful, the authorities
said.

In Phoenix, the police said 20,000 people marched to the office of Senator Jon
Kyl, a Republican and the co-sponsor of a bill that would give illegal
immigrants up to five years to leave the country. Officials said it was one of
the largest protests in the city's history.

Mr. Kyl pointed out that most were speaking out against the House bill making it
a felony to be an illegal immigrant, not against his bill, which would also step
up border enforcement and create a temporary guest-worker program.

In Georgia, activists said tens of thousands of workers did not show up at their
jobs after calls to protest a state bill that would deny state services to
adults living in the country illegally. The House passed the bill on Thursday,
but it has yet to gain Senate approval.

In Atlanta, about 200 protesters converged on the steps of the State Capitol,
some wrapped in Mexican flags and holding signs saying ''Don't panic, we're
Hispanic'' and ''We have a dream, too.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thousands of immigrant rights supporters filled a major Phoenix
thoroughfare yesterday. They marched toward the office of Senator Jon Kyl in a
call for a humane overhaul of immigration laws. (Photo by David Kadluboski for
The New York Times)
 Hundreds of students walked out of school yesterday in South Los Angeles to
march for immigrant rights. District officials said more than 2,700 students
from at least eight Los Angeles schools left class. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A G.O.P. Split On Immigration Vexes a Senator

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25


The telephone lines in the unassuming Houston offices of Senator John Cornyn,
Republican of Texas, have been sizzling in recent weeks as anxious Republican
voters call to find out precisely where their tough-minded senator stands on
illegal immigration.

Mr. Cornyn is a former state attorney general and a fiscal conservative, a Texan
who wears cowboy boots with his pinstripes and prides himself on his 100 percent
approval rating from the American Conservative Union.

But as the Senate prepares to wrestle this week with the question of legalizing
much of the illegal immigrant population, Mr. Cornyn, like many Republicans,
finds himself squeezed by warring factions in his own party.

President Bush focused on the issue in his weekly radio speech on Saturday, a
day after protests in three cities by immigrant rights advocates. As Mr. Bush
spoke, people gathered at rallies across the country, including hundreds of
thousands of immigrant rights advocates in Los Angeles and a few hundred
demonstrators in New York. [Page 31.]

Mr. Cornyn has been criticized on conservative talk radio and labeled a
''sellout'' on some Web logs for promoting legislation that would allow millions
of illegal immigrants to remain in the United States for five more years. The
proposal would also create a temporary worker program that would allow those
immigrants and hundreds of thousands of foreigners abroad to work here legally
for up to six years.

At the same time, business groups have been pressing him to go further by
supporting legislation that would put their illegal workers on the road to
citizenship.

The legislative battle has pitted Republican against Republican, with
conservatives deriding guest worker programs as an amnesty for lawbreakers and
calling for a wall to be built along the border with Mexico, and with business
leaders pushing for legalization of the illegal workforce and the admission of
thousands of foreign workers.

With the Senate expected to start voting on legislation as early as Tuesday and
Congressional staff members negotiating furiously over the fine print, some
lawmakers are struggling to find middle ground.

In his radio talk, Mr. Bush acknowledged the difficulty that lawmakers faced.
''This is an emotional debate,'' he said. ''America does not have to choose
between being a welcoming society and being a lawful society. We can be both at
the same time.''

But finding that balance has been enormously difficult. When asked how he felt
on a recent day when he had shuttled from a telephone interview on Fox News
Radio to a luncheon with business executives, Mr. Cornyn said, ''In between.''

''I have people come to see me who say, 'The wall is the answer,' '' Mr. Cornyn
said as he settled into a leather couch in his office in Houston. ''I hear
others say we ought to be sympathetic, we ought to just let them stay and call
them legal and declare an amnesty. And I don't think either of those
alternatives are possible or viable.

''Sometimes they end up yelling at me,'' he said of his conservative
constituents. ''But my job, and our job in Congress, is to see the whole picture
and to come up with a realistic consensus.''

Mr. Cornyn acknowledged, however, that it would be difficult to reach given the
deep divide within his party. ''It's the hardest thing,'' he said. ''I honestly
don't think we'll know the outcome until we get there.''

The rift emerged in 2004 when Mr. Bush first urged Congress to create a program
that would legalize illegal workers and allow for foreign workers to come here
in the future. Both groups would be required to return home after a period of
time.

The proposal was hailed by the United States Chamber of Commerce, typically a
staunch Republican ally and a formidable political force. But it fueled a revolt
among some conservatives in the party who demanded tighter border controls to
stop the waves of illegal immigration that they view as a threat to American
culture, jobs and security.

In December, the Republican-controlled House defied Mr. Bush's call for a
temporary worker program. Instead, the House passed a tough border security bill
that would, among other things, make it a federal crime to live in this country
illegally, turning the millions of illegal immigrants here into felons,
ineligible to win any legal status. (Currently, living in this country without
authorization is a violation of civil immigration law, not criminal law.)

Meanwhile, many business leaders have thrown their weight behind legislation
sponsored by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, that would grant permanent residency -- and
ultimately citizenship -- to the 11 million illegal immigrants believed to be
living in the United States. To qualify, immigrants would have to pay a fine and
back taxes, learn English and work here for six more years.

Mr. Cornyn has tried to build a middle path: sponsoring legislation that would
deal with illegal immigrants and the needs of businesses for foreign workers
while trying to avoid being tarred with the amnesty label by requiring both
groups to return home after a certain time. Under his plan, people could only
apply for permanent residency from their home countries.

The Senate Judiciary Committee, of which Mr. Cornyn is a member, is trying to
cobble together elements of both pieces of legislation to produce a bill for the
vote. Any legislation that passes the Senate will have to be reconciled with the
House bill.

''Amnesty is off the table,'' Mr. Cornyn has said repeatedly.

But Republican hard-liners here and on the Judiciary Committee scoff at efforts
to distinguish temporary worker plans from Mr. McCain's more liberal proposal.
Many fear participants in such a program will simply vanish when it is time for
them to go home.

''You say it's not amnesty, but it is,'' Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa
said of temporary worker proposals. ''If it looks, acts and smells like amnesty,
then in my eyes, it is amnesty.''

The issue is so politically explosive, particularly with Congressional elections
looming, that some Republicans on the Judiciary Committee avoid discussing it.
Senators Mike DeWine of Ohio and Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, who have favored
immigrant rights in the past, both declined interviews to discuss their
positions publicly. Both are up for re-election.

And Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who supports legalizing illegal
immigrants, warned fellow Republicans that they could expect little more than
criticism for their labors.

''A lot of people, particularly on our side, don't want to have a debate about
this,'' Mr. Graham said. ''Even if you debate it, you're wrong. Even if you're
open-minded about compromise, you're wrong.''

Mr. Cornyn, however, has thrown himself into the fray with enthusiasm.

He recently entered into negotiations with Mr. Kennedy and others in an effort
to build some consensus on a temporary worker program. He appears regularly on
conservative talk radio and meets with competing constituencies like
conservative leaders, business executives and Hispanic lawyers. Members of his
staff have also been in regular contact with the White House.

''Coming from a red state, one that has a large Hispanic population and one
that's a border state, makes it easier to bridge those divisions among
Republicans and find common ground with some Democrats,'' said Mr. Cornyn, who
has close ties to Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's adviser.

His efforts were welcomed at a luncheon at the InterContinental Hotel in
Houston, where business leaders gave him a standing ovation. But even some of
those executives said they were optimistic that his position might shift a bit.

That was not the view of a group of about 25 conservative voters protesting
recently outside of Mr. Cornyn's office.

Leslie Wetzel, who organized the protest, dismissed Mr. Cornyn's balancing act
as more ''mixed messages.'' ''He professes to be a conservative, but like so
many other Republicans he's not a true conservative,'' Mrs. Wetzel said. ''They
say, 'Oh, it's not amnesty; it's guest worker.' Well, I don't care what kind of
spin you put on it. It's rewarding people for breaking the law.''

With conservatives turning up the heat, Mr. Cornyn issued a flurry of press
releases, emphasizing again that he opposed amnesty. Some Congressional staff
members said he had rejected a compromise with Mr. Kennedy and Mr. McCain.

But business leaders said they still hoped Mr. Cornyn would strive for some
consensus. ''There's a lot of pressure on him,'' said Laura Reiff, a
co-chairwoman of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, which represents
hotels, restaurants, construction companies and other service industries. ''He's
put in a position now of really having to soul search and figure out where he's
going to be.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Cornyn speaking to a Houston group about
immigration. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. 22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants, Duty and Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 104 words



To the Editor:

''Called by God to Help,'' by Cardinal Roger Mahony (Op-Ed, March 22), is a
well-reasoned call for practical immigration reform. His is a voice that
deserves respect; his position deserves attention. One hopes that the Senate
takes his advice.

Immigrants, legal and otherwise, make an important and meaningful contribution
to the economic vitality of our country. We need them and we need to control our
borders.

Sensible, compassionate, enforceable reform from the Senate is needed, not
hysterical, reactionary, unenforceable legislation, as passed by the House.

Herbert M. Levin
Coral Gables, Fla., March 22, 2006



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Devon Bowman)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Civil Debate

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 405 words


Something powerful pulled more than half a million people onto the streets of
Los Angeles on Saturday, turning 26 downtown blocks into a pulsing sea of white
T-shirts and American flags. A veteran police commander said that in 38 years he
had never seen a march so huge. Its target was a harsh immigration bill passed
by the House that would erect a wall on our Southern border and turn 12 million
illegal immigrants -- and any who give them aid -- into a nation of felons.

The demonstrations have been timed to a climactic showdown for immigration
reform in the capital. Today the Senate Judiciary Committee has scheduled debate
and a vote on a bill offered by its chairman, Arlen Specter. Unlike the House
bill, it seeks comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws -- not just tighter
borders and stricter enforcement, but also a sensible path to legal status for
illegal workers already here and others who want to come.

Mr. Specter and his colleagues are working under intense pressure, since the
Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, has threatened to put forward a hard-line
enforcement bill if the committee fails to complete its work today. Senate
staffs were racing over the weekend to nail down compromises before today's
deadline. Anti-immigrant forces, meanwhile, stand ready to try to torpedo
anything other than a strictly get-tough approach.

That would be an awful outcome for immigrant advocates and for President Bush,
who has long argued for comprehensive reform and tried, with limited success, to
steer his party away from the one-note harshness of the wall-building crowd.
Last week he urged Congress to have a civil, respectful discussion about the
issue. But with looming elections and Republican presidential jockeying casting
a distorting fuzz over the debate, it may be too late for Mr. Bush's hands-off
approach. If the president really wants a sensible reform bill to reach his
desk, he will have to do more than stand on the sidelines, urging everyone to
have good manners.

The marchers recognize -- as much of the nation seems not to -- the urgency of
comprehensive immigration reform to the nation's future. Their indignation is
mixed with pride in their work and hunger for fair treatment. Their protests
have been a model of peaceful dissent and a blow against the mental straitjacket
that defines immigration reform as entirely a problem of policing. Mr. Bush
should make his case with equal force.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

It Isn't Amnesty

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 576 words


Here's one way to kill a cow: take it into the woods in hunting season, paint
the word ''deer'' on it and stand back.

Something like that is happening in the immigration debate in Washington.
Attackers of a smart, tough Senate bill have smeared it with the most
mealy-mouthed word in the immigration glossary -- amnesty -- in hopes of
rendering it politically toxic. They claim that the bill would bestow an
official federal blessing of forgiveness on an estimated 12 million people who
are living here illegally, rewarding their brazen crimes and encouraging more of
the same.

That isn't true. The bill, approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee in a
12-to-6 vote on Monday, is one the country should be proud of. Four Republicans,
including the committee's chairman, Arlen Specter, joined eight Democrats in
endorsing a balanced approach to immigration reform. The bill does not ignore
security and border enforcement. It would nearly double the number of Border
Patrol agents, add resources for detaining illegal immigrants and deporting them
more quickly, and expand state and local enforcement of immigration laws. It
would create a system to verify workers' identities and impose tougher
punishments on employers who defied it.

But unlike the bill's counterpart in the House, which makes a virtue out of
being tough but not smart, the Specter bill would also take on the hard job of
trying to sort out the immigrants who want to stay and follow the rules from
those who don't. It would force them not into buses or jails but into line,
where they could become lawful residents and -- if they showed they deserved it
-- citizens. Instead of living off the books, they'd come into the system.

The path to citizenship laid out by the Specter bill wouldn't be easy. It would
take 11 years, a clean record, a steady job, payment of a $2,000 fine and back
taxes, and knowledge of English and civics. That's not ''amnesty,'' with its
suggestion of getting something for nothing. But the false label has muddied the
issue, playing to people's fear and indignation, and stoking the opportunism of
Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader. Mr. Frist has his enforcement-heavy bill
in the wings, threatening to make a disgraceful end run around the committee's
work.

The alternatives to the Specter bill are senseless. The enforcement-only
approach -- building a 700-mile wall and engaging in a campaign of mass
deportation and harassment to rip 12 million people from the national fabric --
would be an impossible waste of time and resources. It would destroy families
and weaken the economy. An alternative favored by many businesses -- creating a
temporary-worker underclass that would do our dirtiest jobs and then have to go
home, with no new path to citizenship -- is a recipe for indentured servitude.

It is a weak country that feels it cannot secure its borders and impose law and
order on an unauthorized population at the same time. And it is a foolish,
insecure country that does not seek to channel the energy of an industrious,
self-motivated population to its own ends, but tries instead to wall out ''those
people.''

It's time for President Bush, who talks a good game on immigration, to use every
means to clarify the issue and to lead this country out of the ''amnesty''
semantic trap. He dislikes amnesty. Mr. Frist dislikes amnesty. We dislike
amnesty, too.

The Specter bill isn't amnesty. It's a victory for thoughtfulness and reason.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration On Agenda As Bush Meets Fox in Mexico

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON; David E. Sanger contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: CANCUN, Mexico, March 29


President Bush arrived here on Wednesday evening for a summit meeting that was
intended in part to allay this country's concerns that he will not have
sufficient political capital to push through broad-ranging changes in American
immigration policy.

The meeting is a long-scheduled North American summit meeting, for which
President Vicente Fox of Mexico is the host and which Prime Minister Stephen
Harper of Canada will also attend.

But it comes as the United States Congress is in the midst of a debate over a
proposal that would legalize an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants and
expand guest worker programs for an estimated 400,000 immigrants each year.

The changes are vitally important for Mr. Fox, who is leaving office at the end
of this year and has staked much of his legacy on seeking reforms to benefit the
estimated six million undocumented Mexicans working in the United States, along
with the estimated hundreds of thousands of Mexicans who abandon their homeland
to move north of the border every year.

Momentum on the measure turned in Mr. Fox's favor this week when the Senate
Judiciary Committee passed the proposal. In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Fox
applauded the Senate's action, which was the first small victory in his
government's five-year campaign for immigration reform, but he acknowledged the
proposal still faced a fight in Congress.

During talks in Cancun, Mr. Fox is expected to ask Mr. Bush to press Republicans
to support the measure, so that it can be passed before the end of the year.
Aides to Mr. Fox said Tuesday that he would also ask Mr. Bush to use this summit
meeting to restore the confidence that marked the beginning of their
administrations five years ago by making Mexico a higher political priority.
They also said Mr. Fox would urge his counterparts from Canada and the United
States to agree to hold summit meetings every year.

''I believe that migration brings great benefits to the United States,'' Mr. Fox
said in the interview. ''I trust that American businessmen understand the
productivity and quality of Mexican labor. And I trust that American governors
recognize the enormous contributions that immigrants make to their states.''

Mexico's prosperity depends even more heavily on immigrants in the United
States. Remittances from the United States to Mexico exceeded $16 billion last
year, the nation's second-highest source of revenue, after oil. Migration also
serves as an escape valve that takes pressure off a government unable to create
enough decent-paying jobs for its people.

''Mexico is an immigration addict,'' said Rafael Fernandez de Castro, an expert
on United States-Mexico relations at the Technological Autonomous Institute of
Mexico. ''If 400,000 people were not able to migrate every year, I don't want to
think about what would happen.''

Mr. Fox has been pushing the United States to open the border to a greater flow
of workers since he was elected Mexico's first opposition president five years
ago, putting a peaceful end to seven decades of authoritarian rule by the
Institutional Revolutionary Party. But after the Sept. 11 attacks in the United
States, the Bush administration shelved migration talks with Mexico, and the
United States demanded tighter control of the border. The closeness between the
governments ended when Mexico voted against the war in Iraq in the United
Nations Security Council. Since then, tensions over migration have flared
repeatedly.

Political analysts have said that the meeting here could be Mr. Fox's last best
chance to get Mr. Bush engaged on Mexico and migration. ''If President Bush were
to commit to annual summits with his counterparts, that would be a positive step
and some vindication for President Fox and for the North American community he
has been trying to build,'' said Robert Pastor, the director of the Center for
North American Studies at American University in Washington. He said Mr. Bush
and Mr. Fox had limited political capital, with Mr. Fox soon leaving office and
Mr. Bush with the lowest approval ratings of his presidency.

''It will be up to their successors to push a bolder agenda,'' Mr. Pastor said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Thursday about issues on the agenda as President Bush
arrived in Mexico for a summit meeting referred incorrectly to a Mexican action
in the United Nations Security Council. While the Mexicans have not supported
the war in Iraq, they did not vote against it. A Security Council resolution
effectively authorizing an attack on Iraq never came to a vote.

An article on Thursday about issues on the agenda as President Bush arrived in
Mexico for a summit meeting referred incorrectly to a Mexican action in the
United Nations Security Council. While the Mexicans have not supported the war
in Iraq, they did not vote against it. A Security Council resolution effectively
authorizing an attack on Iraq never came to a vote.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

American Dreams, Foreign Flags

BYLINE: By Linda Chavez.

Linda Chavez, chairman of the Center for Equal Opportunity in Sterling, Va., was
the director of the United States Commission on Civil Rights under President
Ronald Reagan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 877 words

DATELINE: Pittsburg, Tex.


HUNDREDS of thousands of flag-waving demonstrators took to the streets in
Denver, Los Angeles, Phoenix and dozens of other cities in the last week to
protest harsh legislation passed by the House that would make felons of the 12
million illegal aliens living in the United States -- along with anyone who
provides them with shelter, food or other services. It didn't take long for a
bipartisan majority on the Senate Judiciary Committee to get the message and
take a softer tack.

On Monday, four Republicans joined all eight committee Democrats to vote down
the controversial penalties. Their proposal also calls for admitting more legal
immigrants and temporary workers, allowing illegal aliens already in the country
to remain here and earn citizenship if they pay a fine, learn English and study
American civics.

The Senate bill has a long way to go before becoming law, however. Despite their
victory in this round, supporters of comprehensive immigration reform must be
careful in their tactics, including what symbols they embrace. Although American
flags were widely visible among the crowd of a half-million in downtown Los
Angeles (organizers had asked marchers to bring them), reports indicated that
they were outnumbered by those of Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and other
countries. And if history is any guide, those foreign banners could spur an
anti-immigrant reaction.

That's what happened in 1994, when 70,000 people marched in Los Angeles, many
waving Mexican flags, to show their distaste for Proposition 187, a California
ballot initiative that denied social services to illegal aliens and their
children. Initially favored by more than 70 percent of voters, the measure was
losing steam as the election approached, with a poll a week before the election
showing it ahead by only 1 point. But that sea of green, white and red Mexican
flags flooding the streets just before the election signaled to many
Californians that those demanding equal treatment were more attached to their
native country than to the United States. The proposition scored a surprisingly
strong 59 percent of the vote, although the courts eventually declared it
unconstitutional.

Similar dynamics are playing out today. For all the talk of national security
and the economic costs of immigration, the underlying issue driving the current
anti-immigrant frenzy is a deep suspicion that this latest group of newcomers
won't do what others have before them did: learn English and embrace American
identity.

Unfortunately, many Latino leaders play right into the hands of those who claim
they are different from the Germans, Italians, Poles, Jews, Irish and others who
came here in another era. With shouts of ''Si, se puede!'' (Yes, we can!) -- an
old United Farm Workers rallying cry -- and signs announcing ''We didn't cross
the border, the border crossed us,'' the demonstrators are likely to turn off
more Americans than they win over. And the sight of thousands of angry Hispanic
students from California to Virginia pouring out of schools to join protest
marches will only reinforce stereotypes that Latinos care little about
education.

Instead of presenting themselves as an aggrieved, foreign presence, immigration
advocates ought to be explaining how similar Latinos are to other Americans in
their values, aspirations and achievements. It's an easy case to make.

Mexican-born men, for example, are more likely to be in the labor force than any
other racial or ethnic group, according to the Census Bureau. Nearly half of
Latino immigrants own their own homes. While most immigrants from Latin America,
especially Mexico and Central America, lag in educational attainment, their
children are far more likely to stay in school: according to research by the Pew
Hispanic Center, 80 percent of second-generation Latinos graduate from high
school. Almost half of second-generation Latinos ages 25 to 44 have attended
college, and those who graduate earn more on average than non-Hispanic white
workers.

Latino immigrants are also starting their own businesses at a rapid pace. The
Census Bureau reported that entrepreneurship among Latinos is increasing at a
rate three times faster than that of other Americans. Americans of Hispanic
descent now own 1.6 million businesses generating $222 billion annually; and
while Census data didn't distinguish between immigrants and American-born
Hispanics, it suggested that much of this growth occurred in heavily immigrant
communities.

Like every generation of immigrants before them, Latinos start out on the bottom
rungs of the economic ladder, but they don't stay there. They are learning
English as quickly as their predecessors, perhaps more quickly thanks to
television (a majority of third-generation Latinos speak only English). They are
intermarrying at faster rates than earlier ethnic groups, too, with about
one-third of married American-born Latinos having a non-Hispanic spouse.

These facts, if they were more widely known, would go a long way to calming
fears about Latino immigration. If Latino advocates hope to influence the
outcome of the Senate debate on immigration over the next two weeks, they would
do well to spread the word -- and trade their ancestral flags for the Stars and
Stripes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No-Hassle Zone Is Bugging Some

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 199 words


A group that wants stricter enforcement of immigration laws filed a federal
criminal complaint earlier this month against Stamford's mayor, Dannel P.
Malloy, and other city officials who it said encouraged illegal immigration by
setting up an a special area for day laborers to be hired.

Paul Streitz of Darien, director of the Connecticut Citizens for Immigration
Control, said the Day Laborer No-Hassle Zone in Stamford, which was moved from
East Main Street to State Street last spring to allow day laborers to offer
their skills without interrupting traffic and loitering in front of stores,
makes life easier for illegal immigrants.

''What they're trying to do is facilitate illegal immigrants' getting jobs,'' he
said

Mr. Malloy agreed that some of the people finding work in the No-Hassle Zone
could be illegal, but he said many are not.

''There is nothing illegal about day labor,'' he said. ''It has existed as long
as the country has existed. The No-Hassle Zone has nothing to do with status of
residency. It has to do with where we're allowing day laborers to be picked up.
Many of these people are masons, carpenters and landscapers who are citizens and
residents.''   JEFF HOLTZ

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tight Immigration Policy Hits Roadblock of Reality

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1334 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex.


In September, domestic security officials promised to tighten control of the
border with Mexico by swiftly deporting all illegal immigrants seized there,
ending the practice of releasing thousands of illegal immigrants to the streets
each year because of shortages of beds in detention centers.

The move was hailed by President Bush and Republicans in Congress, who said the
policy would deter the surging numbers of illegal immigrants who cross the murky
swells of the Rio Grande here or scramble across the border in Arizona and
California. But in this border town on the front lines of the efforts to combat
illegal immigration, some Border Patrol agents say they continue to face an
uphill battle, with too many illegal immigrants and too few detention beds.

In the first three months of the 2006 fiscal year, the number of illegal
immigrants from countries other than Mexico who were caught crossing the border
surged nearly 30 percent compared with the corresponding period last year,
notwithstanding hopes that the policy would deter such would-be immigrants.

Despite the promise of nearly 2,000 more detention beds to ensure that illegal
immigrants do not flee before being deported, thousands continue to be released
with notices to appear in court.

One morning in January, a month when, typically, relatively few illegal
immigrants cross the river, no detention beds were available for women here and
none for families, Border Patrol officials said.

Nationally, 18,207 illegal immigrants, nearly 60 percent of the total
apprehended, were released on their own recognizance in the first three months
of this fiscal year.

But officials say progress is clearly being made. The number of illegal
Brazilian immigrants apprehended soared last summer but plunged more than 90
percent in the month after the strict detention and deportation policy started.
The number of illegal immigrants from Honduras who were caught dropped 33
percent.

Officials remain confident that the policy will be applied across the board by
October, as planned.

Some Congressional analysts and immigration agents remain doubtful about meeting
the deadline.

To illegal immigrants seized these days, the decision to release or deport often
seems to depend on luck.

Sebastian Zapeta Toc, 25, a Guatemalan who paddled across the Rio Grande in an
inner tube, was snared under the strict deportation policy, known as expedited
removal. Mr. Zapeta Toc was told that he would be detained and deported without
seeing an immigration judge.

''We're going to send you back to your country,'' a border agent, Jaime Sanchez,
told him.

On the same day, 12 illegal Chinese immigrants, including three young women who
dreamed of catching a bus to New York, were released with notices to appear in
court. A woman from El Salvador who sorted coffee beans there, and three people
from Eritrea were also released.

Statistics show that 70 percent of these immigrants, classified by domestic
security officials as ''other than Mexican'' or ''O.T.M.'s,'' fail to appear for
their court dates.

Mexicans continue to arrive in much larger numbers than citizens of other
countries. Apprehensions have remained mostly stable for three years, officials
said, and 90 percent of illegal immigrants from Mexico are returned within hours
of capture. But the number of non-Mexicans crossing the border illegally has
soared after smugglers learned that illegal immigrants were being released upon
being seized, officials said.

The officials said the number of illegal immigrants released with court notices
would continue to decrease as new beds become available. Speedier deportations
will also free up beds, they added.

A study released last fall by the Congressional Research Service, an arm of
Congress, said officials would still ''not have enough beds to accommodate every
O.T.M.'' this year, even with the added slots.

Some immigration agents fear that the bed shortage will worsen in the spring and
summer, when illegal immigrants' crossings typically increase. Officials
acknowledge that the shortage of detention space has forced them to detain some
groups of illegal immigrants, primarily Central Americans, who arrive in the
largest numbers, while releasing others.

But even with the difficulties, officials say they are moving more aggressively
than before.

The number of people processed through expedited removal increased to 10,607 in
the first quarter of this fiscal year, up from 4,227 in the first quarter of
last year, official figures show.

Although the number of illegal immigrants released on their own recognizance
remains high, it is not as high as last year. In the 2005 fiscal year, 70
percent of illegal immigrants classified as ''other than Mexican'' were
released.

'' 'Catch and release' has been reduced dramatically,'' said the chief of the
Border Patrol, David V. Aguilar.

Chief Aguilar said officials were working to address the shortage of detention
space and to streamline deportations by encouraging nations to accept their
citizens more readily when they are returned.

''The commitment has been to go from a situation of 'catch and release' to a
situation of 'catch and remove,' '' Chief Aguilar said. ''And that's the
direction we're moving in.''

A spokeswoman for the White House, Erin Healy, said President Bush was
encouraged by the decline in the number of Brazilians who have been seized.

''When illegal immigrants know they will be caught and sent home promptly,'' Ms.
Healy said, ''they're going to be less likely to cross the border illegally in
the first place.''

T. J. Bonner, the president of the union of Border Patrol agents, said many
agents remained frustrated.

''They're claiming that they're placing everyone into expedited removal, and
that that will solve the problem,'' Mr. Bonner said. ''The truth is that we
simply don't have the detention space to hang on to people in any substantive
manner to deter anyone from coming into this country.''

The problem has ballooned as tens of thousands of illegal immigrants from
countries like Brazil and El Salvador, along with others as far afield as India
and Romania, wade into the rushing river here in hopes of reaching the United
States.

In the 2003 fiscal year, 49,545 illegal immigrants from countries other than
Mexico were seized crossing the Southwestern border. By the 2005 fiscal year,
which ended last September, the figure had jumped to 155,000. In addition,
concerns have been growing about the possibility of border crossings by gang
members and terrorists.

Border Patrol agents say smugglers have been quick to find loopholes in the new
rules.

In recent months, some illegal immigrants have begun claiming to be from El
Salvador because a court ruling from the 1980's, when civil war wracked that
country, requires officials to allow Salvadorans to see judges before
deportation. Domestic security officials are trying to change that.

And the shortage of detention space for families has led to an increase in the
number of unrelated illegal immigrants who say they are families.

''It filters back,'' said Ed Payan, assistant chief of the Border Patrol station
here. ''They know who is being let go.''

Such loopholes have left holes in what many frustrated agents had hoped would be
a consistent, tough policy. The problem has led to startling divergences of fate
for illegal immigrants in the hands of the Border Patrol.

Mauricio Pena and Floridalma Escalante Marroquin said they had made much of the
long, hard journey through Mexico toward the United States together. Mr. Pena
had hoped to find work in Houston. Ms. Escalante had hoped to reunite with a
sister in Los Angeles. In January, they were caught heading into Texas. They
figured they would be sent home.

But Mr. Pena, 19, is from Honduras. Ms. Escalante, 35, is from El Salvador. He
was shipped to a detention center to be processed for deportation. Ms. Escalante
was released to the streets, free to find her way in the United States.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arnulfo Trevino, left, and Daniel Yzaguirre processing four
immigrants from China this month at the Border Patrol station in Harlingen, Tex.

Aurelino Valdez interviewed a Guatemalan in McAllen, Tex., and Eligio Pena,
right, interviewed Hondurans in Harlingen after they were held. (Photographs by
Theresa Scarborough for The New York Times)Chart: ''Stopped at the
Border''Apprehensions of illegal immigrants from countries other than
Mexico.Graph shows arrests of immigrants from 2002-2005.*Note: Data are for
fiscal years(Sources by Congressional Research Service
 Department of Homeland Security)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rights Groups Criticize Speedy Deportations

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1111 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19


As the Bush administration rapidly expands its efforts to detain and deport
illegal immigrants, human rights groups warn that people fleeing persecution are
increasingly vulnerable to being deported to their home countries.

In 2005, a bipartisan federal commission warned that some immigration officials
were improperly processing asylum seekers for deportation. The commission made
recommendations to ensure that the system of speedy deportations, known as
expedited removal, had adequate safeguards to protect those fleeing persecution.

But one year later, only one of the commission's five recommendations has been
put into effect. Meanwhile, domestic security officials have expanded the
expedited removal program, in which illegal immigrants are swiftly deported
without being allowed to make their case before an immigration judge.

Immigration lawyers at the Pro Bono Asylum Representation Project in Harlingen,
Tex., say asylum seekers are already falling through the cracks. They say Border
Patrol agents have improperly placed several asylum seekers into deportation
proceedings without informing them of their right to seek refuge in the United
States.

Domestic security regulations require Border Patrol agents to ask all illegal
immigrants apprehended if they fear being sent home. Immigrants who say yes are
supposed to be exempt from expedited removal until it can be determined by a
judge whether they have a credible fear of persecution.

But in October, Meredith Linsky, who directs the pro bono group in Texas,
notified immigration officials that Border Patrol agents had placed a
22-year-old woman from Honduras into expedited deportation proceedings without
asking whether she feared return. Immigration officials intervened to stop the
deportation to allow the woman to be given a ''credible fear'' interview.

Domestic security officials say such cases are extremely rare. ''If they exist
at all, I am very confident that they are very small and very isolated,'' said
David V. Aguilar, chief of the Border Patrol. ''The training of our agents is
very involved, and there are safeguards in place within the process to ensure
that nobody drops through the cracks.''

But Mark Hetfield of the United States Commission on International Religious
Freedom, the federal commission that released a study on expedited removal in
2005, said the government's decision to expand expedited removal without first
fixing its flaws left asylum seekers at risk.

In September, domestic security officials announced that they would detain and
summarily deport illegal immigrants apprehended along the border with Mexico.
(Until then, expedited removal was primarily used to deport illegal immigrants
who arrived by plane or by sea.)

In January, the policy was expanded to include the border with Canada. The
policy, which is intended to address national security concerns by stemming the
flow of illegal immigrants, is currently directed primarily at illegal
immigrants from countries other than Canada or Mexico.

''We were pretty explicit that expedited removal should not be expanded until
the flaws we identified were fixed,'' said Mr. Hetfield, who directed the study.
''Yet none of the problems we have identified have been fixed, save one.''

This month, domestic security officials put into effect one of the commission's
most important recommendations, naming the Department of Homeland Security's
first senior adviser for refugee and asylum policy to help ensure that adequate
safeguards for asylum seekers and refugees are in place.

The new adviser is Igor V. Timofeyev, who came to the United States as a refugee
from Russia. He joined the department from the law firm of Sidley Austin in
Washington and previously served as associate legal officer for the president of
the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, clerk for the
Supreme Court and clerk for the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

Mr. Timofeyev said the department took the commission's recommendations
seriously and was studying them to determine what action should be taken. Last
week, he met with staff members from Human Rights First, an advocacy group, and
with officials from the United Nations, two groups that have raised concerns
about the expedited removal process.

''Just the fact that I'm here is an illustration of the fact that the department
and Secretary Chertoff take the recommendations seriously,'' Mr. Timofeyev said,
referring to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. ''These issues will
not fall through the cracks.

''We want to close the border to people who want to do us harm, but we also have
to keep the door open to people who want to come here legitimately,'' Mr.
Timofeyev said. ''People who are legitimate refugees from persecution, they
should certainly be able to come to this country.''

Domestic security regulations require that immigration officials refer an
illegal immigrant for a credible fear interview if the immigrant indicates ''an
intention to apply for asylum, a fear of torture or a fear of return to his or
her country.''

The commission found, however, that even when its experts were present to
observe, immigration officials failed to refer illegal immigrants to credible
fear interviews 15 percent of the time, including in cases in which the
immigrants expressed fear of political, religious or ethnic persecution.

The study also found that asylum seekers were often treated like criminals while
their claims were evaluated; they were strip-searched, shackled and often put in
solitary confinement in local jails and federal detention centers. And it
reported disparities in who was granted asylum, depending on where asylum
seekers sought refuge, what country they were from or whether they had a lawyer.

Among other recommendations, the commission said that domestic security
officials should clarify the often conflicting instructions given to Border
Patrol and airport inspectors about how to handle asylum seekers, and should
routinely videotape border agents when they interviewed asylum seekers.

The group also suggested that domestic security officials send anonymous field
testers to see whether agents were following procedures; expand access to legal
representation for immigrants; improve detention conditions; and release asylum
seekers from detention when they posed no flight risk or security risk.

''The changes are long overdue at this point,'' said Eleanor Acer, director of
the asylum project at Human Rights First. ''And yet, despite the fact that the
commission found significant problems, the expedited removal process has been
expanded over and over again.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Search for Illegal Immigrants Stops at the Workplace

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1138 words


IT may seem that the United States government has declared all-out war against
illegal immigration. During the last decade, the budget dedicated to enforcement
of immigration laws has grown by leaps and bounds. The Border Patrol has about
three times as many agents as it did in the early 1990's, and the southern
border has been laced with high-tech surveillance gadgetry.

Yet a closer look reveals a very different portrait of immigration policy. It
seems designed for failure. Most experts agree that a vast majority of illegal
immigrants who make it across the border every year are seeking work. But the
workplace is the one spot that is virtually unpoliced.

''What we've done is put a lot of people on the line of scrimmage, but when you
do that the other side can just lob a little pass and score a touchdown,'' said
Richard M. Stana, director of homeland security and justice issues at the
Government Accountability Office. ''Trying to get a better balance between
border enforcement and interior enforcement would go a long way.''

In a strategy document in 1999, the Immigration and Naturalization Service put
monitoring the workplace last among its five enforcement priorities. Today, the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which has replaced the I.N.S. and
is a branch of the Department of Homeland Security, devotes about 4 percent of
its personnel to enforcement in the workplace, down from 9 percent in 1999.

Demographers estimate that six million to seven million illegal immigrants are
working in the United States; that is some 5 percent of the nation's work force.
Yet in 2004, the latest year for which there is data, the immigration
authorities issued penalty notices to only three companies.

The current approach hasn't halted illegal immigration: some 400,000 to 500,000
illegal immigrants enter the United States every year, almost double the rate of
the 1980's, before the buildup in border enforcement.

Regardless of whether the United States ought to have more or less immigration,
the nation's policy must be flawed when almost half of all immigrants come in
illegally. Indeed, some experts argue that the basic reason illegal immigration
hasn't stopped is that the country doesn't want it to. Gordon H. Hanson, an
economist at the University of California, San Diego, said the ineffective
approach was the product of a collection of interests.

''Employers feel very strongly about maintaining access to immigrant workers,
and exert political pressure to prevent enforcement from being effective,''
Professor Hanson said. ''While there are lots of groups concerned about
immigration on the other side'' of the argument, ''it's not like their
livelihood depends on this.''

Employers have long been the main driver of immigration policy, Professor Hanson
said. Not surprisingly, they tend to dislike the provision in current
immigration law for penalties against employers.

That may explain why fines for hiring illegal immigrants can be as low as $275 a
worker, and immigration officials acknowledge that businesses often negotiate
fines downward. And why, after the I.N.S. raided onion fields in Georgia during
the 1998 harvest, a senator and four members of the House of Representatives
from the state sharply criticized the agency for hurting Georgia farmers.

After the terrorist attacks of 2001, the government limited immigration
enforcement in the workplace to what it deemed ''critical infrastructure'' --
places like nuclear power plants and airports -- that could be vulnerable to
terrorism. Even in the late 1990's when the economy was booming and labor
markets were tight, the I.N.S. virtually stopped looking for illegal immigrants
in the workplace.

Employers might not favor a guest worker program to allow immigrants to work
here legally, if such a program included harsher policing of the workplace. ''A
guest worker program would offer secure legal access to immigrant labor, but at
the risk that this labor would come in smaller quantities or with more strings
attached,'' Professor Hanson said.

The immigration law of 1986 contained a basic flaw. Congress barred employers
from hiring illegal immigrants, but it didn't provide a reliable way for
employers to check an immigrant's status.

For less than $50, immigrants can buy a set of fake documents -- usually a
Social Security card and green card, indicating permanent residency -- to get a
job. The fake ID's provide employers with crucial protection in the eyes of the
law: companies can plausibly deny that they knew they were hiring people without
legal permission to work.

The upshot is that millions of illegal immigrants work on the books, with the
odd side effect that the Social Security Administration receives millions of
Form W2 wage reports from employers that bear random Social Security numbers.

In 1996 the inspector general of the Justice Department warned that fraudulent
documents were allowing unscrupulous employers to avoid accountability for
hiring illegal immigrants. If the government decided to halt, or at least
substantially dent, the flow of these immigrants into the work force, it would
find that it probably already has the tools.

Since 1997, immigration authorities and the Social Security Administration have
been running a voluntary pilot program that allows employers to check worker
documentation on the spot -- matching documents against government databases
over the Internet.

This system could end employers' deniability, because they could determine
quickly whether a given employee was authorized to work in the United States.
That's probably why so few companies have signed up: only about 2,300 of the
more than six million employers across the country.

EVEN if such a system became mandatory, people might continue to hire illegal
immigrants as nannies and housekeepers, and to pay them in cash. Small
businesses operating under the radar might also hire them off the books.

Yet many illegal immigrants work on the books. For employers, it is one thing to
fail to question the dubious provenance of Social Security cards. It is quite
another to overtly break the law.

Ramping up the pilot program into a mandatory national one would be costly. The
Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration would
have to make their databases compatible. Glitches -- such as different spellings
for the same name -- would have to be ironed out.

But these difficulties do not seem insurmountable, especially when set against
the Department of Homeland Security's enormous and utterly ineffective effort to
stop illegal immigration at the border.

So why hasn't workplace enforcement increased? ''It's an open question,'' said
Mr. Stana of the G.A.O. ''Have we turned a blind eye to this in the interest of
keeping the economy humming?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Less Pain for Employers''According to some estimates, the
number of illegal immigrants entering the United States has generally risen
since 1992. Yet administrative actions against businesses who employ them have
declined.Graph tracks the folllowing from 1992-2004:AVERAGE ANNUAL IMMIGRATION
(illegal [estimated] and legal)(Source by Pew Hispanic Center)Graph tracks the
folllowing from 1992-2004:WARNINGS OF IMPENDING FINES ISSUED TO EMPLOYERS OF
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS(Sources by I.N.S., Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, Gov't. Accountability Office)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Facing Serious Obstacles as He Pushes for Changes in Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1034 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23


In the days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, immigration policy was going
to be President Bush's signature issue. It was central to his thinking as the
former governor of a border state, key to his relationship with President
Vicente Fox of Mexico and essential in attracting new Hispanic voters to the
Republican Party.

Five years later, Mr. Bush has at last realized some momentum on immigration
policy, but it is probably not the activity he once anticipated.

He has lost control of his own party on the issue, as many Republicans object to
his call for a temporary guest-worker program, insisting instead that the focus
be on shutting down the flow of illegal immigrants from Mexico. It is not clear
how much help he will get from Democrats in an election year.

The issue will come to the floor of the Senate next week, and the debate is
shaping up as a free-for-all that will touch on economics, race and national
identity.

At the end of next week, Mr. Bush is scheduled to meet with Mr. Fox in Cancun,
Mexico. Immigration is likely to be a source of tension in their talks.

In short, Mr. Bush is facing another test of his remaining powers as president.

On Thursday, he called for calm in a White House meeting with groups pressing
for changes in American immigration laws.

''I urge members of Congress and I urge people who like to comment on this issue
to make sure the rhetoric is in accord with our traditions,'' the president
said.

He added, in a warning to members of Congress, that ''the debate must be done in
a way that doesn't pit one group of people against another.''

The discussion has intensified as Mr. Bush finds himself caught between two of
his most important constituencies: business owners and managers on the one hand,
conservatives on the other.

Philosophically, the president, whose own sensibility on the issue was shaped by
his experience as governor of Texas, says he is committed to a program that
meets the needs of business: the creation of a pool of legal foreign workers for
industries that have come to rely on low-wage labor.

Mr. Bush also brings to the debate a stated belief that the country benefits
from the immigration of hardworking people and their dreams of becoming
Americans. He often talks about the United States as a land of immigrants, and
on Monday in Cleveland he said that ''my only advice for the Congress and for
people in the debate is, understand what made America.''

But politically, Mr. Bush must satisfy his most conservative supporters. Many of
them view illegal immigration as a strain on schools, the health care system and
the economy, and some have warned that in their opinion the nation's cultural
identity could be washed away by a flood of low-income Spanish-speaking workers.

For now, Mr. Bush is trying to navigate the storm with a proposal that tries to
satisfy both groups: a toughened border enforcement plan coupled with a
temporary guest-worker program that would allow some of the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States to register for legal status and remain
here for as long as six years.

''Our government must enforce our borders; we've got plans in place to do so,''
Mr. Bush said on Thursday. ''But part of enforcing our borders is to have a
guest-worker program that encourages people to register their presence so that
we know who they are, and says to them, if you're doing a job an American won't
do, you're welcome here for a period of time to do that job.''

Pollsters say the issue is still fluid among voters, although they expect public
opinion to solidify during the coming debate in Congress and as Mr. Bush
promotes his plan.

''He's got a very strong position with the bully pulpit,'' said David Winston, a
Republican pollster, ''but the dynamic of the issue at this point is that there
is consensus around border security, but people have not come to a similar
consensus about what to do with the 11 million in the country.''

Two years ago, a New York Times/CBS News poll found that two-thirds of those
surveyed said immigrants who had entered the country illegally should not be
allowed to stay and work in the United States for three years, the initial
period of stay in Mr. Bush's proposed guest-worker program. There was also
little enthusiasm for any increase in immigration, with a plurality saying
immigration should be decreased.

The poll was conducted shortly after Mr. Bush made his first major speech on his
immigration plan.

''Many of you here today are Americans by choice, and you have followed in the
paths of millions,'' Mr. Bush told a cheering, chanting crowd packed with
Hispanic leaders in the East Room of the White House in January 2004. Every
generation of immigrants, he added, ''has reaffirmed the wisdom of remaining
open to the talents and dreams of the world.''

But critics said that Mr. Bush's guest-worker program did not go far enough, and
that there was deportation, not a green card, at the end of the process. At the
same time, his words angered many conservative Republicans, who said the plan
amounted to amnesty.

Mr. Bush dropped his immigration proposals as too risky for his 2004 re-election
campaign, but took them up again in 2005. By then, in an effort to calm
conservatives, he had switched his tactics, emphasizing the national-security
part of the plan.

''We're going to get control of our borders,'' he vowed in the East Room of the
White House in October 2005 as he signed a $32 billion domestic security bill
that had big increases for the Border Patrol.

This year, Mr. Bush has continued to push the issue and is closely watching what
happens on Capitol Hill.

The House has passed an immigration bill that includes border security, not a
guest-worker program. The action is now in the Senate, where it will resume next
week.

There are a rash of competing immigration proposals on both sides, including one
from Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, and another from Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. The majority leader, Senator Bill
Frist of Tennessee, has threatened to offer his own border-security-only bill if
the Senate cannot come up with legislation on its own.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, talking to reporters yesterday at the White
House, favors a guest-worker program that is being challenged by his own party.
(Photo by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anchor-Advocate on Immigration Wins Viewers

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER and JACQUES STEINBERG; David D. Kirkpatrick and Carl
Hulse contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: NEWS MEDIA;
Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1013 words


The nation's most prominent opponent of current immigration policy began his day
yesterday on the ''Today'' show on NBC, debating a Hispanic defender of illegal
immigrants. He moved on to ''American Morning'' on CNN to denounce a bill passed
by the Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday as ''an amnesty program.''

By nightfall he was on a plane headed to Mexico, where he intended to assess
critically the planned discussions on the issue between President Bush and
President Vicente Fox of Mexico.

This central figure in the increasingly fractious debate over future immigration
policy was not a senator or congressman, nor even a lobbyist on either side of
the issue. It was instead, a television news anchor, Lou Dobbs of CNN.

In the course of insistently offering his ever more passionate views on
immigration all across the television landscape in just one 24-hour period, Mr.
Dobbs underscored that what works in cable television news is not an objective
analysis of the day's events but hard-nosed, unstinting advocacy of a specific
point of view on a sizzling-hot topic.

While its competitors, the Fox News Channel and to a lesser extent, MSNBC, have
consistently built successful programs around aggressively opinionated hosts
like Bill O'Reilly and Keith Olbermann, CNN has maintained that its mission
remains offering straight news coverage, unseasoned with sharp points of view.

Except for Lou Dobbs. On CNN only Mr. Dobbs's 6 p.m. nightly news program comes
accompanied with the disclaimer that it will contain ''news, debate and
opinion.'' That is not a new development for Mr. Dobbs. He has had that freedom
at CNN for years and his advocacy approach on the immigration debate has been
widely discussed in recent months.

But in the past several weeks, Mr. Dobbs has ratcheted up his criticism of Bush
administration policies, first on the Dubai ports deal and now on immigration,
to a point where in the view of many he has become a significant factor in
shaping public opinion on these issues.

''He has got a lot of listenership, and he is not a nut,'' said Senator Trent
Lott, Republican of Mississippi. ''He is a very thoughtful guy, and he feels
very strongly about this issue.''

Representative Peter T. King, a New York Republican and a leading opponent of
the Dubai port deal, appeared repeatedly on the Dobbs show during that
controversy and said he believed lawmakers were watching closely.

''He definitely influenced politicians who were watching him and listening to
him,'' Mr. King said. ''I think he had an impact.''

Mr. King said that Mr. Dobbs was better able than other network reporters to
''grab the issue, be able to keep it going and stay excited about it every
night.''

The management of CNN denied yesterday that Mr. Dobbs's soaring profile on the
immigration issue -- and the increased ratings he has garnered along with it --
would steer the network toward adding more opinions on other news programs.

''Lou's show is not a harbinger of things to come at CNN,'' said Jonathan Klein,
the president of CNN/U.S. ''He is sui generis, one of a kind.''

But CNN was hardly holding back yesterday on giving Mr. Dobbs opportunities to
unleash opinions on the immigration debate, views that seem to have only grown
more vociferous in reaction both to last weekend's mass marches in Los Angeles
and other cities in support of illegal immigrants and the action Monday by the
Senate committee.

On the CNN morning show he called the Senate bill ''an unconscionable act'' and
''a sellout.'' He appeared again on CNN's midday ''Live From'' program, saying,
''I think illegal immigrants are a burden to the taxpayer, unequivocally.''

Later, the network's ''Situation Room'' program displayed a clock counting down
to the hour when Mr. Dobbs would be arriving in Mexico.

This followed by just a day a confrontation between Mr. Dobbs and a guest on his
own program, Janet Murguia, the president of the Hispanic civil rights group
National Council of La Raza, during which he lectured her on immigration policy.

''I want you to look me right in the eye, and I want you to hear me loud and
clear,'' Mr. Dobbs said to Ms. Murguia, who replied, ''I'm right here.''

Yesterday, Ms. Murguia said, ''There's no question he's branded a unique
format.''

Mr. Dobbs, who previously had a long-running and successful financial news-based
program on CNN, said he had never held back on offering his opinions.

''I've been doing this three decades,'' he said. ''I know whereof I speak on the
political economy. I don't come to a conclusion out of thin air because of some
partisan or ideological viewpoint, but rather with an analysis of the facts.''

He said he did not believe that traditional objective journalism brought people
closer to the truth. Asked if he himself knew what the truth was, Mr. Dobbs
said: ''I have strong feelings that I do. I have strong evidence I do.''

CNN certainly has reason to celebrate Mr. Dobbs's expanding profile on the
immigration issue. His program, which was up 24 percent in total viewers over
the same period last year, is the only good news story in CNN's evening and
prime-time lineup, which was otherwise down across the board in ratings for the
past quarter.

Notably, for the first quarter of the year, Mr. Olbermann's show on MSNBC beat
the 8 p.m. CNN show with Paula Zahn for the first time in the audience that
matters most to news programs -- viewers ages 25 to 54. But both still trailed
far behind Mr. O'Reilly's dominant show at that hour.

Even as Mr. Klein conceded that ''there is certainly a correlation between Lou's
outspokenness and the ratings he has gotten,'' he reasserted that CNN would not
be turning to opinion-based programs beyond the Dobbs newscast.

''Cable has always been, certainly for the past 10 years, a hospitable home to
outspoken, over-the-top figures,'' Mr. Klein said. ''It cuts through the
clutter.'' But, he added, ''What is suitable for Lou is not necessarily suitable
for many other, if any other, talent on the network. It is not a signal for some
sea change at CNN.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou Dobbs, the CNN anchor, a central figure in the debate over
immigration policy. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

President Renews Effort to Overhaul Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1020 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Nov. 28


President Bush kicked off a new effort on Monday to unite Republicans behind an
overhaul of immigration laws. He emphasized the need to choke off the flow of
illegal immigrants while trying to address conservatives' concerns about his
plan to grant temporary legal status to millions of illegal workers already in
the United States.

On the first of two days of appearances in two border states, Arizona and Texas,
Mr. Bush tried to stake out a middle ground on an issue that has divided
Republicans, saying the nation did not have to choose between upholding its
immigration laws and being compassionate to the millions of workers who travel
here desperate to make a living.

His emphasis was unmistakably on the elements that most concern conservatives in
his party. They are demanding more forceful steps to hold back the waves of
people who flow across the Mexican border and are deeply opposed to anything
that smacks of amnesty for people who have entered illegally.

''Illegal immigration's a serious challenge,'' Mr. Bush said, flanked by two
black Border Patrol helicopters in a hangar at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base
here. ''And our responsibility is clear. We are going to protect the border.''

Mr. Bush listed initiatives that he said were helping, including returning
illegal immigrants from Mexico to their hometowns rather than simply sending
them back across the border and moving to end the practice of releasing illegal
immigrants in the United States in the expectation, usually dashed, that they
will appear for court hearings.

He approvingly cited programs to build walls and fences in some areas, spoke of
how technology was helping catch people sneaking across the border and pushed
budget increases he has supported.

The president cast his original proposal for a temporary guest worker program as
a safety valve that would reduce illegal immigration and sought to ease concerns
among some conservatives that it would amount to amnesty for lawbreakers. His
plan would let millions of illegal immigrants obtain legal status for a fixed
but as yet undetermined period, but would then require them to return to their
home countries, a provision that many immigration experts say is unworkable and
unrealistic.

''We're going to secure the border by catching those who enter illegally and
hardening the border to prevent illegal crossings,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We're
going to strengthen enforcement of our immigration laws within our country. And
together with Congress, we're going to create a temporary worker program that'll
take pressure off the border, bring workers from out of the shadows and reject
amnesty.''

He signaled that he would oppose any effort to limit changes in immigration
policy to an increase in border security. In doing so, he suggested that the
White House preferred the approach being taken by Senate Republican leaders who
have promised to develop a broad approach to immigration and border security to
that being taken by House Republican leaders who plan to bring up a bill just on
border security.

In the audience were the two Arizona senators, both Republicans: John McCain,
who has co-sponsored a plan to give participants in the guest worker program a
path to citizenship, and Jon Kyl, who has co-sponsored a bill to deny temporary
workers a path to citizenship.

Their bills are among proposals on Capitol Hill that include building a wall
along the entire Mexican border, using military forces to patrol the border,
creating a volunteer marshal program to help patrols and increasing fines for
employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

''Listen, there's a lot of opinions on this proposal,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I
understand that. But people in this debate must recognize that we will not be
able to effectively enforce our immigration laws until we create a temporary
worker program.''

In taking on the issue, Mr. Bush has found himself caught between two powerful
forces. On one side is business, which pleads for a system that will ensure
employers' access to workers who are willing to take jobs that they say they
cannot fill with Americans or legal immigrants.

On the other side are conservatives who say the big problem is a porous border
that is creating huge law enforcement problems and adding to the costs of social
welfare, education and other programs.

Democrats are highlighting the Republicans' divisions, pressing Mr. Bush not to
acquiesce to conservatives and asking him to address the full range of
immigration issues.

''As Congress finally begins to address this problem, I hope that you will stand
up to the right wing of your party and stand up for what is right,'' Senator
Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat who is minority leader, said in a letter sent on
Monday to Mr. Bush.

Mr. Reid continued, ''Democrats support immigration policies that will reunite
families, provide for continued American economic growth, protect the rights of
American workers, secure economic stability for our neighbors to the south and
honor the values of the United States of America as a nation of immigrants.''

Immigration is among the trickiest issues on Mr. Bush's domestic agenda, and it
is in some ways similar to what President Bill Clinton faced in pushing for an
overhaul of the welfare system a decade ago.

As Mr. Clinton did with welfare, Mr. Bush became immersed in immigration as
governor. Just as Mr. Clinton wanted to use toughening the welfare system as a
way to break with liberal orthodoxy and lay claim to the political center, Mr.
Bush and his advisers have always viewed addressing immigration in a way
sensitive to immigrants as an opportunity to strengthen his party's appeal to
Hispanics, a fast-growing segment of the population.

Just as Mr. Clinton had to risk outrage among Democrats in signing a Republican
welfare bill just months before he faced re-election in 1996, Mr. Bush finds
himself navigating between factions of his party and at risk of having opened a
debate that he can no longer control at a time his political fortunes have been
sinking and he is increasingly reliant on his conservative base for support.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators John McCain, right, and Jon Kyl, both Republicans of
Arizona, at a briefing on immigration yesterday in Tucson with President Bush.
Mr. McCain and Mr. Kyl have proposed sharply different programs. (Photo by Evan
Vucci/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Real Border Security

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 511 words


President Bush went to the nation's Southwest border states recently to talk
tough about keeping out illegal immigrants. His rhetoric was hard as he warned
of murderers, child molesters and other criminals slipping onto American soil.
Gone was the gentler voice of the former Texas governor who talked about how
people were coming to America to feed their children, about how ''Family Values
Don't Stop at the Rio Grande.'' As a result, many who listened figured that he'd
''tacked right,'' as some Democrats complained, or that he had simply deserted
his five-year-old plan for a comprehensive immigration program. A careful
reading of the president's comments raises hopes that Mr. Bush is staying his
course but selling it a little differently.

The president's timing in pushing for immigration reform is crucial. After five
years of delay, Congress is finally poised to deal with the growing immigration
mess in this country. Some powerful House members have been looking at the
problem in less than helpful ways, including draconian -- and impractical --
proposals to build a fence around America or to round up the 11 million illegal
immigrants and forcibly send them back where they came from. The best hope so
far comes from the Senate, where thoughtful members are looking at variations on
Mr. Bush's comprehensive immigration reform. And the best of those so far is a
bipartisan package from Senators John McCain and Edward Kennedy that promises
security at the borders and a guest worker program that gives the worker some
hope of eventual citizenship.

The president was not clear last week, but he apparently wants some variation on
the McCain-Kennedy proposal -- perhaps with more emphasis on border security and
a stronger crackdown on employers using illegal immigrant workers. In Arizona,
Mr. Bush said he wanted a guest worker program that would ''bring workers from
out of the shadows,'' but he also wanted to ''reject amnesty.'' That reflects
one of the least practical parts of the present White House proposal, which
calls for all these guest workers to go home after six years. Getting illegal
immigrants to sign up for a guest worker program that forces a return home in
six years will be one tough sell. It would be far better to offer a path -- even
a difficult path -- to full citizenship.

Not long ago, the Manhattan Institute, a conservative think tank, got a surprise
when it polled a number of likely Republican voters on this emotional issue.
Most of those polled said they wanted immigration reform that would work. They
did not favor an approach that focused on enforcement only, perhaps recognizing
that a string of enforcement provisions over the last few years has done little
to stop the flood of illegal immigrants. In short, some three-quarters of these
likely Republican voters favored a comprehensive immigration plan much like the
McCain-Kennedy package. If that many Republicans want genuine reform instead of
a few stunts by anti-immigrant legislators, the time has come for President Bush
and Congress to help them get it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Crime Database Often Wrong On Immigration, Study Finds

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8


More than 8,000 people have been mistakenly tagged for immigration violations as
a result of the Bush administration's strategy of entering the names of
thousands of immigrants in a national crime database meant to help apprehend
terrorism suspects, according to a study released on Thursday.

The study, conducted by the Migration Policy Institute, a research group in
Washington, relied on statistics released by the Department of Homeland Security
that covered 2002 to 2004. The study found that the national crime database was
wrong in 42 percent of the cases in which it identified immigrants stopped by
the local police as being wanted by domestic security officials.

Many immigration violations, like overstaying a visa, are civil infractions, not
criminal offenses typically handled by the police. But since the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, domestic security officials have worked to encourage
states and localities to help enforce immigration laws by adding the names of
thousands of violators -- like immigrants evading deportation orders -- to the
F.B.I. crime database.

The statistics seem likely to fuel the debate over the program, which has been
hailed by some as an important tool in the war on terror and criticized by
immigration advocates who fear that it will focus attention on ordinary
immigrants suspected of violating civil immigration laws, not terrorists.

Michael Gilhooly, a spokesman for the immigration enforcement unit of the
Department of Homeland Security, sharply contested the Migration Policy
Institute's interpretation of the statistics. He said the results showed that
the process was working correctly, allowing local police officers to confirm
quickly whether an immigrant is actually wanted by the Department of Homeland
Security.

Typically, a police officer investigating a suspect enters the name into the
crime database. If the database indicates that the individual is wanted by
domestic security officials, the officer is required to confirm that information
with a telephone call to immigration officers.

''If it's not the individual we want, the system rules out the individual within
10 minutes,'' Mr. Gilhooly said.

''The information we're putting into the N.C.I.C. is correct,'' Mr. Gilhooly
said, referring to the F.B.I. crime database, the National Crime Information
Center. ''The reason individuals are ruled out is because of the accuracy of
that information.''

Michael Wishnie, a professor of clinical law at New York University and an
author of the report, said the statistics raised questions about the accuracy of
the immigration data in the database. He said he was particularly concerned that
a majority of immigrants affected by the program seemed to be Hispanics who had
violated civil immigration laws.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                                 Early Edition

House Panel Approves Border Security Bill

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8


Legislation to choke off illegal immigration, both at the border and in the
workplace, cleared a House committee on Thursday despite strong objections from
Democrats who said immigration policy must also deal with proposals that would
allow illegal immigrants already in the country to obtain temporary legal status
as guest workers.

The Judiciary Committee approved the measure on a party-line vote of 23 to 15,
setting up a vote in the full House next week before Congress adjourns for the
year. The Senate is to take up its own border security bill early in the next
session.

Besides adding to Border Patrol agents and equipment, the bill would enlist
military support in border surveillance and reimburse local law enforcement
agencies along the border for assistance in combating illegal immigration and
human smuggling.

It would require the Homeland Security Department to detain, until they can be
removed from the country, all who try to enter illegally, and would set new
mandatory minimum sentences on smugglers and people convicted of re-entry after
removal. Illegal presence in the country, now a civil offense, would become a
federal crime, and three drunken driving convictions would become a deportable
offense for legal immigrants.

Further, all employers in the country would be required to participate in a
verification system under which the government would confirm that a worker or a
job applicant had legal status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chamber and 2 Unions Forge Alliance on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 769 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18


The United States Chamber of Commerce and two of the country's most powerful
labor unions are joining forces to press Congress to pass an immigration bill
that would legalize millions of illegal workers, labor and business leaders said
this week.

The coalition will include the Service Employees International Union, which has
1.8 million members; the Laborers' International Union of North America, which
has 400,000 members; and the chamber, which represents three million businesses.

The groups, which are expected to announce their alliance on Thursday, plan to
lobby in Washington and across the country in hopes of influencing members of
the Senate, who are expected to take up immigration legislation in coming weeks.

Business and labor officials, who are often at odds over employee legislation,
have found common ground on this issue as immigrants have become a rapidly
growing share of the workforce. About 11 million illegal immigrants are believed
to be living in the country, and the groups are pushing for legislation that
would allow them to live and work here legally.

But leaders of the alliance acknowledge that they face a tough fight.

The coalition remains divided over whether to support a broad guest worker plan
that would allow hundreds of thousands of new arrivals to work in the United
States as temporary employees. The chamber and the service employees' union
support the plan, as outlined in a bill by Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat
of Massachusetts, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona. The laborers' union
opposes it.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. also opposes a broad guest worker plan, saying it would result
in the disappearance of thousands of permanent jobs with benefits and would lead
to the workers being exploited. Many conservatives, who oppose granting legal
status to illegal immigrants, say they hope to scuttle the legislation as well.

Still, the coalition partners said they hoped to exert influence on the
legislation under consideration by the Senate Judiciary Committee.

In December, the House passed a border security bill that would turn the
millions of illegal immigrants living in this country into felons, ineligible
for any legal status. Randel K. Johnson, the chamber's vice president for labor,
immigration and employee benefits, said the coalition hoped to pressure the
Senate to take a different path.

''We think it's important to show that we have a united political front here,''
Mr. Johnson said. ''The unions tend to bring the Democrats to the table, and
we'll bring a good portion of the Republicans. We're standing here, joining
forces to tell the Congress that they need to step up to the plate.''

Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the service employees' union, said
the groups also hoped to prod President Bush, who supports a guest worker plan,
to push the legislation through Congress. ''We're hoping the president takes
some leadership on this issue, which he has not until now,'' Mr. Medina said.

The president of the laborers' union, Terence M. O'Sullivan, said he thought the
coalition could play a powerful role, even if his union opposed the guest worker
plan.

''We will not agree point on point on immigration reform,'' Mr. O'Sullivan said.
''But the majority of the major components we do agree upon. And there's
strength in numbers.''

The two unions are members of a labor federation created last year, partly under
the service employees' union's leadership, as a rival to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. The
laborers' union is in both federations.

Officials at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. have already begun urging senators to oppose a
guest worker plan. Ana Avendano, associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O,
criticized the service employees' union for supporting the plan.

''We're turning permanent jobs into jobs that are temporary, staffed by
temporary workers,'' Ms. Avendano said of the guest worker proposal. ''It's
really troubling that any labor union is just sitting back and conceding that
this is something that needs to happen.''

Mr. Medina dismissed the criticism. He said officials hoped to improve the guest
worker proposal, but in the meantime he said the McCain-Kennedy proposal offered
the best hope for providing legal status to immigrants already here and to those
who hope to come and work.

''Most times we're on opposite ends of the issue on Capitol Hill, but on this
one we are in agreement,'' Mr. Medina said of the alliance. ''We agree that to
fix this immigration system that is completely broken we need to legalize the
people who are here and find a legal way for workers to come in the future.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senator Introduces Bill Creating Guest Worker Program

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24


The Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee unveiled draft
legislation on Friday that would create a temporary guest worker program that
could allow hundreds of thousands of foreigners to fill vacant jobs in the
United States for periods of up to six years.

The draft circulated by the lawmaker, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania,
would also authorize millions of illegal immigrants who arrived in this country
before Jan. 4, 2004 to remain here indefinitely, along with their spouses and
children, as long as they registered with the Department of Homeland Security,
paid back taxes and remained law-abiding and employed, among other conditions.

The proposal would require employers to attest that they had tried to recruit
American workers before bringing in additional foreigners from abroad and to pay
prevailing wages. The plan would not place a restriction on the number of
foreigners who could take part in the guest worker program. Those workers would
not have the right to become permanent residents or citizens.

The bill is silent on whether illegal immigrants already in this country should
be accorded that opportunity.

The legislation will serve as the blueprint for the first Congressional debate
on the future of the nation's illegal immigrants since President Bush called for
a guest worker plan in 2004. With his draft, Mr. Specter was striving to
reconcile the warring factions within his own party and address concerns raised
by business leaders, labor officials and advocates for immigrants who have
battled fiercely in recent months over the shape of a proposal that would
radically reshape immigration policy and the workplace.

The debate on the bill, which also includes measures to strengthen border
security, is expected to begin in the Judiciary Committee next week. Any
legislation that passed the Senate would have to be reconciled with a bill
passed by the House in December that sought to tighten security along the
nation's borders but made no provision for guest workers or legal status for
illegal workers already in the United States.

''The committee must grapple with a realistic means of bringing out from the
shadows the possible 11 million illegal aliens in the United States,'' Mr.
Specter wrote in a letter to his colleagues, saying he hoped the draft would
build consensus. ''We are a nation of immigrants, but we are also a nation of
laws.''

But the proposal touched off a furor among politicians, advocates for immigrants
and union leaders across the political spectrum.

Conservatives condemned it as an amnesty for lawbreakers.

''By legalizing the millions upon millions of illegal aliens in the U.S.,
Specter makes a mockery of our laws and crushes our already strained legal
immigration system,'' said Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado,
who pushed for the border security bill in the House.

Advocates for immigrants said the plan failed to protect the rights of immigrant
workers, who they argue deserve a clear path to citizenship. And the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. warned that a guest worker program of unlimited scale would
depress wages and working conditions while creating a perpetual underclass of
foreign workers.

''This unprecedented program would put millions of people in a status where they
don't get residency and they can't become citizens,'' said Angela Kelley, deputy
director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group in Washington.
''At first blush, its a nonstarter.''

Ana Avendano, associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said, ''From the
viewpoint of workers, this is not a good bill.''

The United States Chamber of Commerce praised the draft legislation for
addressing the need of many industries for immigrant workers. And Senator John
Cornyn, a Texas Republican, who had introduced a more conservative immigration
bill, praised Mr. Specter for taking ''a serious look at a very difficult
issue.''

The furious response by some constituencies to the draft reflects the difficult
position confronting Mr. Specter as he navigates the fault lines within his
party and committee, with an eye toward a vote on the Senate floor and a
conference with skeptical House Republicans, who have rejected calls to legalize
illegal workers.

Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said Mr. Specter ''has a difficult path to tread.''

Under Mr. Specter's proposal, the guest worker program would be open only to
foreigners living outside the United States. Applicants would be sponsored by
employers -- though they would be allowed to switch employers during their time
here -- and would undergo background checks and medical screening. If approved,
applicants would be allowed to bring their spouses and children to the United
States.

Work permits would be granted for three years, after which the worker would have
to return to his country for a year and apply again. The guest worker could then
be authorized for a second and final work permit for three years.

Illegal immigrants who arrived in the United States after Jan. 4, 2004 could
also participate in the guest worker program, but only if they returned home and
applied from their countries.

Those illegal workers who arrived in this country before Jan. 4, 2004 could stay
in this country indefinitely, provided that they underwent background checks and
did not remain unemployed for 45 days or more.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Arlen Specter hopes his guest worker bill will be a
blueprint for debate on immigration. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 224 words



To the Editor:

Paul Krugman (''North of the Border,'' column, March 27) tells an important part
of the story of undocumented workers. But essential things are left unsaid when
President Bush grandly says they take ''jobs that Americans won't do.''

They will not only work for wages that most Americans understand not to be
living wages, but they are also willing to live 12 or 15 to an apartment,
sharing dangerous spaces with poor or no heat and dreadful or nonexistent
sanitary facilities.

Where I live, they pay top dollar for apartments, to landlords who take
advantage of the ''need'' of middle-class people for cheap labor to clean their
homes, mow their lawns and take care of their children.

These men and women are willing to live thousands of miles away from parents,
children, siblings and a culture and language they understand to provide for
their families.

A few years ago, my husband and I volunteered in a local church program teaching
English to mostly undocumented workers. Our students were wonderful people, and
we were proud of their progress. These are the people we would fine, prosecute
and send home?

My grandparents, immigrants from a different time, are surely spinning in their
graves over the treatment of this new wave of the tired and poor yearning to
breathe free.

Marylyn Rosenblum
Katonah, N.Y., March 28, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 119 words



To the Editor:

Underlying the push for legalizing undocumented workers in one way or another
has always been the claim that ''Americans won't do those jobs.''

If you can convince me, I might support a guest worker or temporary green card
solution, or even the proposal to allow some people to earn entry onto the path
to citizenship.

But to do that, two things must be done:

First, create a meaningful minimum wage that will apply across the board, from
strawberry pickers to kitchen help (and I will gladly pay more, then, for
berries and meals); and enforce existing laws against hiring undocumented
workers, and let's just see what happens to our economy then!

Nathalie Guyol
Waxahachie, Tex., March 27, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Conservatives Stand Firm on Immigration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30


Conservative House Republicans bluntly warned their leaders Thursday against any
immigration compromise that would allow temporary foreign workers and assailed a
Senate proposal that would open the way for illegal immigrants to earn
citizenship.

''My fear is that if we continue down this path that the Senate has established,
that we will have created the biggest magnet ever,'' said Representative Bob
Beauprez, a Colorado Republican. ''It would be like a dinner bell, 'Come one,
come all.' ''

But the bipartisan authors of a Senate plan that would combine new border
protections with a temporary worker program and a process for illegal immigrants
to qualify for residency and eventually citizenship said they thought they were
gaining support as the Senate moved deeper into its immigration fight.

Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who helped write the plan approved
Monday by the Senate Judiciary Committee, called the debate a defining moment in
the nation's history.

''Are we going to continue our rich tradition of hundreds of years of welcoming
new blood and new vitality to our nation?'' Mr. McCain asked. ''Or are we going
to adopt a protectionist, isolationist attitude and policies that are in
betrayal of the very fundamentals of this great nation of ours, a beacon of hope
and liberty and freedom throughout the world?''

Supporters of Mr. McCain's plan said that President Bush's comments in recent
days have suggested he was moving toward their position. Under Mr. McCain's
proposal, illegal immigrants would be granted permanent residency and the
opportunity to apply for citizenship only after foreigners who have followed the
rules by applying for residency from their countries have been processed.

In a speech on Thursday in Cancun, Mexico, where President Bush was meeting with
President Vicente Fox, Mr. Bush said, ''If they want to become a citizen, they
can get in line, but not the head of the line.''

The sharp divisions among Republicans illustrated the difficulty Congress would
have in reaching agreement, particularly with midterm elections looming.
Lawmakers and Senate officials said the climactic votes would come next week as
senators considered amendments and a choice between the Judiciary Committee plan
and a proposal by Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, that focuses on
tougher law enforcement.

As the debate rages in Washington, the Pew Research Center for the People and
the Press and the Pew Hispanic Center released a national survey indicating that
ordinary Americans are also deeply divided over how to handle the 11 million
illegal immigrants thought to be living in the United States.

The poll, conducted between Feb. 8 and March 7, found that 53 percent of the
2,000 people surveyed believed that illegal immigrants should be required to
return home, while 40 percent said they should be granted some legal status that
allows them to stay in the United States.

Forty-nine percent said that increasing penalties for employers who hire illegal
immigrants would be most effective in reducing illegal immigration. One-third
preferred increasing the number of border patrol agents while 9 percent favored
the construction of fences along the Mexican border.

And while 65 percent said that immigrants mostly take jobs that Americans do not
want, the survey found that a growing number of people believe immigrants are a
burden, taking jobs and housing and creating strains on health care.

House conservatives emphasized such concerns at a news conference on Thursday.
Worried that their party's leadership was weakening in its opposition to plans
that would allow illegal workers to remain in the United States, more than a
dozen House members staged a ''Say No to Amnesty'' event after Speaker J. Dennis
Hastert suggested on Wednesday that the House might consider a temporary worker
program.

Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California, dismissed arguments
made by President Bush and business leaders who say the United States needs a
pool of foreign workers. He said businesses should be more creative in their
efforts to find help and suggested that employers turn to the prison population
to fill jobs in agriculture and elsewhere.

''Let the prisoners pick the fruits,'' Mr. Rohrabacher said. ''We can do it
without bringing in millions of foreigners.''

With the Senate considering a worker and citizenship plan starkly at odds with
the House approach, Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado and a
leading advocate of tough immigration laws, said House conservatives wanted to
make clear their resistance to any worker program. ''Push is coming to shove,''
Mr. Tancredo said.

Despite the outcry from the right, Representative John A. Boehner, the majority
leader, said the House would await a bill from the Senate before making firm
decisions. ''To stand here today and guess at what it might look like and how we
might deal with an issue is a lot of speculation that we don't need to engage
in,'' Mr. Boehner said.

While backers of the bipartisan measure said they were making inroads, opponents
of the citizenship proposal said they were not so sure. ''The more people find
out what is in it, I think there will be more unease,'' said Senator Jeff
Sessions, Republican of Alabama. Like other critics of the legislation, Mr.
Sessions said it could be characterized as amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Authors of the measure bristled at that label. Senator Arlen Specter, Republican
of Pennsylvania and chairman of the Judiciary Committee, described it as a smear
intended to build resistance to the legislation.

''It is not amnesty because the undocumented aliens will have to pay a fine,''
he said. ''They will have to pay back taxes. They will undergo a thorough
background investigation. They will have to learn English. They will have to
work for six years. And they will have to earn the status of staying in the
country and the status of moving toward citizenship.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Time to Fix Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 368 words


In Connecticut, one mayor is thinking about identification cards to help illegal
immigrants, while another mayor is trying to arrest day workers on street
corners. In Burbank, Calif., local officials have required Home Depot to build a
shelter for the large numbers of immigrant laborers waiting outside the store
for work.

In bits and pieces, communities all over the country are trying desperately to
deal with what is really an immense national problem. Only Washington can
untangle an immigration mess that draws a growing number of illegal immigrants
across the nation's borders every year. Labeled criminals or even ''invaders''
by a few in President Bush's own party, many of these immigrants are actually
risking their lives to take on the jobs that many Americans have chosen to
avoid. One contractor recently told The Los Angeles Times that if officials
began cracking down on illegal immigrants, ''who will rebuild New Orleans?''

Only a comprehensive plan, a bipartisan one with many of the ideas outlined
earlier by President Bush, can address this national issue. Yes, such a plan
needs to secure the borders, but it must also establish a guest worker program
that serves industry, American workers and immigrants. And it needs to deal
humanely and fairly with the 11 million immigrants who are already here
illegally.

So far, a bill by Senators John McCain, the Arizona Republican, and Edward
Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat, has the most workable solution. Their bill
tries to lure people out of the shadows by offering a lengthy route to legal
status. Immigrants working here illegally would pay a fine of at least $2,000,
and go to the end of the long line of those trying to get legitimate working
papers. Sending them home first to apply for permission to immigrate simply
won't work.

Washington is still circling these ideas too slowly, forcing too many people and
politicians to take matters into their own hands. It's time for Congress and the
president to do their job. The local communities, in coming up with haphazard or
dangerous solutions, like vigilantes in New Mexico and makeshift arrests for
overcrowded housing on Long Island, are really crying out for a national cure.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 17, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Senators Debate An Immigration Bill, Frist Offers His Own

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16


Senator Bill Frist, the Republican leader, introduced a stringent border
security bill on Thursday, rejecting pleas from senators in his own party who
appealed for more time to finish legislation that would create a guest worker
program for foreigners and a legal remedy for millions of illegal immigrants
already in the United States.

Mr. Frist said his bill would include several measures already hammered out in
negotiations under way in the Senate Judiciary Committee, which had included an
increase in the number of border guards, more fencing along the Mexican border
and faster deportation of illegal immigrants. But Mr. Frist's bill would not
create the temporary worker program that President Bush has urged to legalize
the status of the 11 million illegal immigrants thought to be in this country.

''Our country needs security at our borders in order to slow the flow of illegal
immigration and make America safer from foreign criminals and terrorists,'' said
Mr. Frist, of Tennessee.

Mr. Frist said he had decided to pre-empt the Judiciary Committee's work to
ensure that the Senate meet his goal of holding a vote on immigration the week
of March 27. He said the committee's legislation could replace his bill as the
starting point for a floor debate if the senators completed their work in time.

The decision put him at odds with Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania
Republican who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and highlighted divisions
within the Republican Party over immigration.

''I think it is a colossal mistake to take this to the floor,'' Mr. Specter said
early on Thursday. He sounded more conciliatory after meeting with Mr. Frist.
Addressing reporters with Mr. Frist at his side, Mr. Specter said he would have
preferred a different outcome but was optimistic that his committee could
complete its legislation in time for it to be considered on the Senate floor..

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Reassures Mexico Leader Of His Backing For Immigrants

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: CANCUN, Mexico, March 30


President Bush, in an effort to reassure Mexicans and to defuse an intense
debate in the United States, told President Vicente Fox of Mexico on Thursday
that he supported proposals to legalize undocumented workers as long as they
were not given any advantages over immigrants who entered the United States
legally.

''I explained to the president my vision of the citizenship issue,'' Mr. Bush
said, as Mr. Fox sat next to him during their summit meeting here. ''If they
want to become a citizen, they can get in line, but not the head of the line.''

In another comment aimed at critics within his Republican Party, Mr. Bush also
talked about his support for guest-worker programs as part of an effort to open
safe, legal and orderly channels for migrant workers into the United States.
Opponents of the plans say they amount to opening floodgates to hundreds of
thousands of workers who will cross the border from Mexico each year.

Mr. Bush said he told had Mr. Fox that he was committed to signing a
''comprehensive immigration bill.''

''And by 'comprehensive,' I mean not only a bill that has border security in
it,'' Mr. Bush said, ''but a bill that has a worker permit program in it. That's
an important part of having a border that works.

''We don't want people sneaking into our country that are going to do jobs
Americans won't do. We want them coming in in an orderly way, which will take
pressure off of both our borders.''

Changes in immigration law have been more fiercely debated in Congress since
Monday, when the Senate Judiciary Committee approved a bill that would provide
legal status to an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants and allow 400,000
foreigners a year to enter the United States as guest workers. The proposals
have bitterly divided the Republican Party between those who see immigrant labor
as a pillar of the American economy, and those who view it as a burden, even a
threat.

The issue has dominated talks between Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox for most of their
presidencies. Though the content of Thursday's talks was no different, the
ambitions of the two leaders -- with Mr. Bush burdened by the lowest approval
ratings of his presidency, and Mr. Fox deep into his final term-- was sharply
diminished.

Five years ago, a newly elected Mr. Fox, buoyed by his standing as the man who
peacefully ended seven decades of authoritarian rule, stood on the White House
lawn and challenged the United States to work with his government on proposals
that would open the border to a freer flow of workers from Mexico.

On Thursday, speaking to reporters, Mr. Fox acknowledged that the fate of
immigration law was out of his and President Bush's hands.

''It is not here, in these meetings, where a migration agreement is made,'' he
said. ''It is now an issue for the Congress of the United States, and there,
they will make the decision. It is no longer between President Bush and
President Fox.''

Mr. Fox addressed American critics who have accused Mexico of encouraging its
people to migrate illegally. Mexico's economy depends heavily on the estimated
$16 billion that the migrants send home annually.

Mr. Fox said that if Congress reorganized immigration, ''Mexico assumes its
responsibilities to work with passion, with commitment, diligently, to develop
opportunities for our people.''

Earlier in the day, Mr. Bush visited the 1,500-year-old Mayan ruins at Chichen
Itza, a rare moment of tourism for a president who usually has little patience
for sightseeing. White House officials added the stop as a show of respect for
Mexico's heritage.

Back in Cancun, Mr. Bush's motorcade sped past the ruined carcasses of hotels
wiped out last year in Hurricane Wilma. He stayed at a small, luxurious resort
protected by Navy vessels that bobbed offshore.

Mr. Bush also met separately with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada to
discuss a long-running dispute over American imports of softwood lumber, which
has grown more bitter as industries on both sides of the border have sought
rulings in different international settings, starting in the Clinton
administration.

Mr. Bush said of Mr. Harper, ''I appreciate his steely resolve to get something
done.'' But he gave no indication of any change in American policy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Brewster, a Backlash Against Day Laborers

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR; Kathleen M. McGrory contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

DATELINE: BREWSTER


EVERY morning at the glimmer of dawn, scores of immigrant workers from Mexico
and Central America gather along Main Street here, lining up to await their
deliverance. It arrives in the form of local contractors and homeowners who
drive up looking for an extra hand or two, offering the men construction work at
$8 to $10 an hour, and on a good day more.

It is a ritual that has gone on quietly in Brewster for about a decade now,
generally ignored by those residents and business owners who do not want the day
laborers around.

But recently something changed: Many of those opposed to the influx of
undocumented workers say they can no longer turn a blind eye. And their fight
against the workers' presence has created a small firestorm.

Last month the police, under pressure from residents, arrested eight laborers
playing soccer on a field near the Garden Street Elementary School and charged
them with trespassing.

Their offense: using the field while school was in session. All of them were
illegal immigrants from Guatemala, and one who could not make bail, Juan
Jimeniz, was turned over to federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.
He is set to undergo deportation hearings any day now.

According to his lawyer, Francis O'Reilly, Mr. Jimeniz and the seven others are
law-abiding men who were unable to find work that day and simply wanted to take
advantage of the warm weather. In any case, he added, Brewster authorities
violated Mr. Jimeniz's civil rights by asking about his status and then
contacting immigration officials.

''I'm shocked that someone who is accused of playing soccer in a schoolyard
would be marked for deportation and taken into federal custody so quickly,'' Mr.
O'Reilly said. ''This man has no criminal record. He is a 33-year-old father of
five who has never been in trouble before.''

Yet in the weeks since the incident, many in this tiny, quaint village have
applauded the arrests, which capped months of complaints about overcrowded
homes, public drunkenness and other problems ascribed to the presence of illegal
immigrants.

One group held a ''Stop the Invasion'' protest against illegal immigration in
Rockland County only two days before the eight in Brewster were arrested.
Another group, across the border in Danbury, Conn., held a similar protest that
drew more than 100 people.

The pressure on Brewster officials became severe in October after a laborer was
found drunk and unconscious behind the Garden Street School one afternoon. The
incident prompted a series of meetings at which residents vented their
frustrations.

''The big issue that was brought up was how are we going to protect our kids?''
said Rachel McLaughlin, a local activist who attended the meetings. ''My
daughter is a first grader at Garden Street, and I think it's dangerous to have
large groups of people loitering in certain areas, especially if they are men.''

In airing those sentiments, residents were echoing a refrain heard for years
across the Northeast, wherever there are large day-laborer populations.

Yet judging from the angry letters in the local press, there are clearly those
in the village who oppose the arrests. A number of writers called the incident
blatantly racist, pointing out that other people jog and exercise on the field
all the time without ever facing imprisonment.

Five Brewster teenagers even held a bake sale to help raise the $3,000 bail
money for Mr. Jimeniz, though by that time he had already been turned over to
immigration officials.

ACCUSATIONS of racism would certainly not be contradicted by Yolanda
Castro-Arce, a lawyer of Puerto Rican background who built her home here seven
years ago. Ms. Castro-Arce says she is the target of racial remarks every time
she walks along Main Street.

Her 8-year-old son, Christopher, has faced similar problems at John F. Kennedy
Elementary School in Brewster, she added, describing classmates' comments like
''You're brown and you're dumb.''

One day when she arrived at the school to take Christopher to a doctor's
appointment, Ms. Castro-Arce said, she listened in shock as a receptionist
referred to him over the loudspeaker as ''the dark Christopher,'' to distinguish
him from a white classmate with the same name. Ms. Castro-Arce said she
complained right away to the principal, Robin Young, who told her she would tell
the receptionist ''not to say things like that.''

Ms. Young's office said last week that she was unavailable for comment.

As for the recent residents' meetings, Ms. Castro-Arce said she and her husband
were upset by comments at one last month. Although it was organized ostensibly
to discuss safety issues, she said, it ended with several audience members
remarking that day laborers ''lived like animals'' and were turning Brewster
''into a toilet.''

Patricia Perez, community affairs coordinator for Putnam County, works with its
Spanish-speaking population. ''While I understand people's concerns about their
children,'' she said, ''I find that the situation was an overreaction. I think
that at this point people are confused and divided over the fact that the faces
in this community have been changing for a long time.''

For the day laborers themselves, the issue has been anything but welcome. Emilio
Romero, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala who was standing on Main Street
waiting for work one morning last month, said many of his fellow laborers were
worried about what might happen next. Mr. Romero arrived in Brewster in 2004, he
said, adding that on most days he makes about $100 doing construction or
landscaping work, half of which he sends home to his wife and six children.

''Guatemala is beautiful,'' Mr. Romero said, speaking in Spanish. ''But there
was a shortage of food and a shortage of money. I couldn't buy my family new
clothing or new shoes. I came to America to provide for my family.''

Down the street from Mr. Romero stood another Guatemalan, Francisco, who
declined to give his last name but said that he, too, was worried, and that he
found the arrests hard to understand.

''We aren't harming anyone,'' he said. ''Most people here think that we are
criminals, but I don't feel like a criminal. The only crime we committed was
coming here to look for work.''

To help minimize friction between residents and the laborers, the village has
plans this spring to open a center near its train station where workers can
congregate.

Describing the planned center as more of a bus shelter with a bathroom, Ms.
Perez said it was a temporary solution -- a site leased from the New York City
Department of Environmental Protection, which owns and oversees much of the land
in the Hudson Valley watershed. She also said the village had the longer-term
goal of building a center, to be modeled on similar facilities in Mount Kisco,
where immigrants can take English and have access to other services.

THE idea for the center has garnered support from people like Jane Neri, who
owns a pet rescue center that doubles as a thrift shop along Main Street in the
heart of the village. Ms. Neri estimates that sales at her shop have plunged 70
percent in the last two years, ever since police patrols were scaled back and
laborers began clustering in her doorway. She said that on most days at least 25
men linger in her doorway, which has an awning and gets plenty of sunlight.

''A lot of my truly good customers have told me point blank that they won't come
back,'' she said. ''It's not that the men are violent, it's just that the sheer
number of them hanging in the doorway intimidates people. They're afraid.''

But a center for immigrants costs money, which the village says it will not have
for several years, according to Ms. Perez.

And even if it did have the means for a shelter, there is a good chance other
hurdles would arise. At the village meetings, some residents have said they do
not want their tax dollars supporting the center -- or, for that matter,
''paying for undocumented workers to be in jail.'' Many have said they would
prefer instead that village and county officials push the federal government to
do more.

At the last meeting, in early January, Ms. McLaughlin, whose daughter attends
the Garden Street School, circulated a petition calling for action at the
federal level, which the mayor of Brewster, John Degnan, and more than 150
people signed.

''I think you either need to make these people citizens and give them the
American dream, or you need to start enforcing the laws that are already on the
books,'' Ms. McLaughlin said. ''It's not a race issue, it's a legal issue.''

Yet where one resident sees legalities, another may see racism. Ms. Castro-Arce
and her husband, also a lawyer, decided the incident at the ball field last
month was the final straw: they put their house on the market and are now
looking for a home in Westchester.

''I tell my husband all the time that coming here was a big mistake,'' she said.
''I talk to other people about what we've encountered here all the time, and
they can't believe it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Day laborers congregating along Main Street in Brewster. (Photo
by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Jane Neri, a shopkeeper, says sales have dropped since laborers began gathering
in her doorway. (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 22, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Albany: Illegal Immigrants May Sue If Hurt

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 94 words


Immigrants working illegally in New York State can sue for lost wages if they
are hurt on the job, the state's highest court ruled yesterday. In two 5-to-2
decisions, the Court of Appeals said that an award of past and future wages to
an undocumented worker did not conflict with federal immigration law. The cases
involved two construction workers who sued after they were injured. The court
found that the workers' claims were valid even though they did not have
permission to work in the country. The workers' claims were backed by Attorney
General Eliot Spitzer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Safety Stings At Work Sites Will Be Halted

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 252 words


Federal officials told immigrant advocates in a letter made public yesterday
that government immigration agents would discontinue using undercover sting
operations involving health and safety programs to round up illegal immigrants.

Such an operation generated a storm of protest in July when federal agents
arrested 48 workers at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in North Carolina on
illegal immigration charges after the agents tricked the workers into attending
what was billed as a mandatory training session sponsored by the federal
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

Worker advocates and immigrant groups complained that such activity would
discourage immigrant workers from reporting safety violations or seeking help
from safety officials at a time when Hispanics were suffering a
disproportionately high rate of injuries and fatalities.

On March 17, Marcy M. Forman, director of investigations for the Department of
Homeland Security's immigration and customs enforcement division, known as
I.C.E., sent a letter to the United Food and Commercial Workers union, which had
protested the ruse, to say federal officials were discontinuing the practice.

''This is exactly the action that I.C.E. should have taken,'' said Jackie
Nowell, director of occupational safety for the food and commercial workers
union. ''Using health and safety as a ruse to catch workers is definitely the
wrong way to go when immigrant workers are being killed and injured in far
greater numbers than other workers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Illegal Workers Hit Suburbs, Politicians Scramble to Respond

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words


Suburban politicians once had to master a small but demanding catalog of local
issues. Taxes, garbage, crime and schools were always the big ones. But recently
a volatile new issue has been showing up on the local meet-the-candidate
circuit, and it is pretty much the opposite of the familiar and the local. It is
illegal immigration.

Though municipal officials have no statutory control over immigration, a rising
population of illegal immigrants in suburban communities -- from Farmingville,
N.Y., to Danbury, Conn.; Herndon, Va., to suburban South Salt Lake City, Utah --
has prompted some of those officials to attack the problem with the limited
means at their disposal. In the process, they have won and lost political
support; grappled with issues beyond their usual bailiwicks; and, whether
intentionally or not, begun incorporating immigration into the calculus of local
politics.

Steve Levy, the Democratic county executive in Suffolk County, sent police
officers to help shut down single-family houses crammed with 40 and 50 immigrant
workers in Farmingville, a hamlet that has become synonymous with the conflict
between day laborers and suburban homeowners. His move rankled many Hispanics,
some of whom have labeled him as racist, but his popularity in mostly white
Suffolk County has risen.

Mark Boughton, the moderate Republican mayor of Danbury, Conn., set off a fiery
debate this year by calling for state troopers to enforce immigration laws, and
now finds himself labeled as anti-immigrant and embraced by some conservative
Web sites.

Michael O'Reilly, the mayor of Herndon, a Washington suburb, who took a
different tack -- proposing to open a hiring hall for day laborers in his town
-- drew such a flood of angry calls from immigration opponents (stoked by a
national radio talk show host in Sacramento) that the City Hall switchboard was
shut down for four days.

''A little community like Herndon, with a part-time mayor -- we never signed on
to tackle national issues like immigration,'' Mr. O'Reilly said. ''This is way
above our pay grade.''

Some see it as an absence of coherent federal immigration policy in addressing
the reality of an estimated 10 million illegal immigrants now living in the
United States -- the majority of them in its suburbs. In that view, something,
anything, seems destined to fill the gap.

''Immigration has become a local issue because, at least from their perspective,
local governments feel there is no federal policy in place,'' said Audrey
Singer, immigration fellow at the nonpartisan Brookings Institution. ''Local
officials don't want to be responsible, but they have to respond to local
concerns.''

The scramble for solutions reflects a major shift in immigration patterns during
the last decade, she said. Since 2000, the number of immigrants living in
suburbs, legally or illegally, has surpassed the number in cities, 52 percent to
48 percent.

Deborah Meyers, a senior policy analyst for the Migration Policy Institute,
another nonpartisan group, said that as the new gateways of immigration,
American suburbs ''are communities that are having to address a rather sudden
and significant influx of newcomers, and they have no experience with this.''

The illegal newcomers have attracted notice in the high-cost suburbs primarily
by overcrowding single-family houses, which neighbors then complain become
eyesores, and by assembling for day laborers' jobs in parking lots and on street
corners.

The local response has been somewhat like the suburbs themselves: decentralized;
somewhat haphazard; self-contained; aimed at enforcing a set of ''quality of
life'' standards that are defined differently from place to place. In Silver
Spring, Md., local officials support a hiring hall for immigrant workers. In
neighboring Langley Park, also home to many immigrants, they do not.

Jupiter, Fla., and Ford County, Kan., are known to welcome new immigrant
workers. Bowling Green, Ky., and Freehold, N.J., are not.

Some towns have cracked down on immigrants obliquely, by enforcing building
codes against overcrowding. Others have instituted new codes limiting the square
footage of driveway pavement, for example, or forbidding the use of rooms other
than bedrooms for sleeping.

''How is it going? It's going not well,'' said Mr. Boughton, the Danbury mayor,
whose request for immigration-enforcement powers was denied, but who sends
inspectors to count the cars parked in front of the houses in immigrant
neighborhoods and issue various summonses. ''The federal government continues to
avoid this issue, and we can only do so much.''

The reasons for the perceived paralysis of national immigration policy are many,
experts say: post-9/11 antiterror politics; deep conflicts within the ranks of
both the Republican and Democratic Parties; and, not least, ambivalence among
the general public, which opposes illegal immigration in principle but generally
benefits from the low-cost services of those illegal workers -- who mow lawns,
clear tables, pack meat and dig holes for swimming pools.

And immigration-policy experts cite bad luck. Immigration reform was relatively
high on President Bush's agenda before Sept. 11. It was overshadowed for the
next three and a half years, then seemed to be re-emerging during the first year
of Mr. Bush's second term. Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief strategist, was
designated earlier this year to coordinate efforts to secure Congressional
support of a ''guest worker'' bill that would ostensibly regulate the flow of
otherwise illegal immigrants. ''But then comes Katrina,'' said Ms. Meyers of the
Migration Policy Institute. ''Rove is now busy with that, I understand.''

Local and state politics seems to be filling the gap. During a nasty Republican
primary last month in the Suffolk County town of Brookhaven, which includes
Farmingville, the two candidates for town supervisor vied to be known as the
more hard-line anti-illegal-immigrant candidate.

One accepted the endorsement of a local organization that has labeled illegal
immigrants terrorists. The other mailed a campaign flier that claimed ''illegal
immigrants are taking over our community'' and ''eroding our quality of life.''

The slightly less strident candidate, Edward Hennessey, won that race, but the
campaign raised the fear that immigrants will become scapegoats. ''It's scary
how readily some will attack immigrants, demonizing them, just to get votes,''
said Nadia Marin-Molina, director of the Workplace Project, a Long Island-based
immigrant-advocate group.

As a campaign issue, immigration is ''an emotional issue,'' said Mark DiCamillo,
a California pollster. ''When politicians are looking for issues that can trump
the top issues -- education, the economy and the budget -- it's usually in the
social issue area, like gay marriage, abortion or illegal immigration.''

It is a highly malleable one, too, he said. At the start of the 1994 California
race for governor, for example, illegal immigration ranked low on the list of
voters' concerns, Mr. DiCamillo said. But after the Republican candidate, Pete
Wilson, tied his campaign closely to his support of Proposition 187, a ballot
initiative that would have denied public services to illegal immigrants, Mr.
DiCamillo said, ''exit polls showed that the No. 1 reason people voted for
Wilson was that he would be tough on illegal immigration.''

Recently, the former Virginia attorney general, Jerry W. Kilgore, a Republican,
injected illegal immigration as an issue into his tightly contested race for
governor against Timothy M. Kaine, the Democratic lieutenant governor.

Several days after the switchboard at the Herndon Town Hall was flooded by
opponents of the proposed hiring hall, Mr. Kilgore announced his opposition to
the site, asking: ''Will we reward illegal behavior with hard-earned dollars
from law-abiding citizens? I say the answer to this question should be an easy
one. No.''

Mr. Kilgore subsequently made controversial remarks linking illegal immigrants,
the MS-13 street gang and Al Qaeda.

In Tennessee, State Representative Marsha Blackburn of Brentwood, a Nashville
suburb, won election to the House of Representatives in 2002 by focusing heavily
on the rising cost of social services in her state and her contention that
illegal immigrants were the cause.

''The debate itself will be contentious and convoluted, and in the end, what
people are debating is much more about how they feel than about what they can
actually do about illegal immigration,'' said Steven Camarota, director of
research at the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group that
generally supports a more-restrictive immigration policy. ''What you have as a
result is incoherence.''

In Herndon, meanwhile, since town officials approved the construction of a
hiring hall, supervisors in neighboring Loudoun County, Va., have notified them
that the proposed site straddles Loudoun's border, and therefore requires its
approval and that until further notice the short answer is to be no.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Day laborers seeking work in Danbury, Conn., where the mayor,
Mark Boughton, said, ''The federal government continues to avoid this issue, and
we can only do so much.'' (Photo by Douglas Healey/Associated Press)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Of Buried Truths, Undocumented Laborers and a Grandfather I Never Knew

BYLINE: By CAROLYN CURIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 709 words


In a land of great divides, none are so graphic as the Rio Grande. Its waters
demarcate need and desire. Dreams are born or die at the river's edge. Mexicans
risk everything sacred to them, from proximity to families to their lives, for
the opportunity to cross north.

''The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada,'' a film by the actor and director
Tommy Lee Jones, explores the short life and death of one undocumented Mexican
in Southwest Texas. In many ways, it is macabre and difficult to watch. It is
driven by the killing of the Mexican, a ranch hand. Tending goats one day, he
fires his rifle at a coyote. A hotheaded Border Patrol agent believes he is
under attack and returns deadly fire.

The victim becomes not so much a life lost as a nuisance authorities must deal
with. The border agent hurriedly buries his error before other agents discover
the body. Melquiades is given a second, unceremonious burial in a pauper's
grave. As a small-town Texas sheriff says, the dead man was ''just another
wetback.''

That would be the end of the story except for a rancher, played by Mr. Jones,
who had hired and befriended the Mexican. He exacts a frontier kind of justice
by kidnapping the border agent and forcing him to accompany him and the rotting
corpse of Melquiades for a proper burial in his home village in Mexico.

Mr. Jones's character is probably crazy, and he breaks more laws than I could
count -- at one point, lassoing the agent like an errant calf and dragging him
across the river into Mexico. But I found myself ignoring sensibilities and
cheering him every loony step of the way. For the better part of seven decades,
my family has lived without answers in our own case of an immigrant's wrongful
death.

My mother's father, 49 years old and seemingly in good health, died after
surgeons in Kansas botched an exploratory operation that had been prompted by a
pain in his abdomen.

There were no avengers for my family. There was just my grandmother, who spoke
no English, and 10 children. The hospital gave her a little money in lieu of an
explanation.

My grandfather, an orphan who had married another orphan, trekked north from a
small village in Michoacan and crossed the border at El Paso in a time before
infrared vision gear, helicopters and a veritable border army. Mexican laborers
were openly in demand then, and there were none of the hypocritical
pronouncements from Washington about protecting the border while doing little to
curb the demand for cheap labor.

He helped to build the railroad through Kansas, a job that required lifting
countless railroad ties without mechanical assistance. If I had to guess what
ailed him the day he first went to a doctor, I would say it was a hernia, an
ulcer or both.

My grandfather was short and powerfully built. He had perfect teeth and a dark
face so handsomely cast that in the only photograph he sat for, in a blue suit
and white shirt, he seemed made of bronze.

I would like to think the doctors regretted the death of my grandfather, much as
the border agent in the movie is haunted by the life he took. Still, they could
not have appreciated the life that ended, and the long, hard journey that had
brought him to them.

He had survived a painful separation from his family, finally earning enough to
send for them. Their home in Kansas was a boxcar. Basic medical care for
immigrants, then as now, was a luxury. My grandfather delivered my mother in
their boxcar home with his own hands. He was buried in Kansas alongside a
daughter who had died earlier of a burst appendix.

Before long, my grieving grandmother moved the family to Indiana, where her sons
went to work in the steel mills outside Chicago. There she reburied her husband
and lost child.

Mr. Jones's movie is a dark, poetic plea to value people who have too often come
to be regarded as faceless and disposable. They wash our clothes, park our cars,
clean our homes, build our roads, harvest crops and tend children and gardens.
For them, America is rarely the promised land -- it is more like purgatory, and
they will make the best of it until they can return home, or until their
children can rightfully claim an American birthright.

My grandfather's name was Jesus Ortiz. And he was buried twice.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Wall That Keeps Illegal Workers In

BYLINE: By Douglas S. Massey.

Douglas S. Massey, a professor of sociology at Princeton's Woodrow Wilson School
of Public and International Affairs, is the author of ''Beyond Smoke and
Mirrors: Mexican Immigration in an Age of Economic Integration.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.


THE Mexican-American border is not now and never has been out of control. The
rate of undocumented migration, adjusted for population growth, to the United
States has not increased in 20 years. That is, from 1980 to 2004 the annual
likelihood that a Mexican will make his first illegal trip to the United States
has remained at about 1 in 100.

What has changed are the locations and visibility of border crossings. And that
shift, more than anything, has given the public undue fears about waves of
Mexican workers trying to flood into America.

Until the 1990's, the vast majority of undocumented Mexicans entered through
either El Paso or San Diego. El Paso has around 700,000 residents and is 78
percent Hispanic, whereas San Diego County has three million residents and is 27
percent Hispanic. Thus the daily passage of even thousands of Mexicans through
these metropolitan areas was not very visible or disruptive.

This all changed in 1992 when the Border Patrol built a steel fence south of San
Diego from the Pacific Ocean to the port of entry at San Ysidro, Calif., where
Interstate 5 crosses into Mexico. This fence, and the stationing of officers and
equipment behind it, blocked one of the busiest illicit crossing routes and
channeled migrants toward the San Ysidro entry station, where their numbers
rapidly built up to impossible levels.

Every day the same episode unfolded: the crowd swelled to a critical threshold,
whereupon many migrants made what the local press called ''banzai runs'' into
the United States, darting through traffic on the Interstate and clambering over
cars.

Waiting nearby were Border Patrol officers, there not to arrest the migrants but
to capture the mayhem on video, which was later edited into an agency
documentary. Although nothing had changed except the site of border crossings,
the video gave the impression that the border was overwhelmed by a rising tide
of undocumented migrants.

In response to the ensuing public uproar, the policy of tougher border
enforcement was expanded to all of the San Diego and El Paso area in 1993 and
1994. So migrants began going to more remote locations along the border in
Arizona. In 1989, two thirds of undocumented migrants came in through El Paso or
San Diego; but by 2004 two-thirds crossed somewhere else. (My statistics on
Mexican immigration come from a study I have been undertaking with financing
from the National Institutes of Health since 1982.)

Unlike the old crossing sites, these new locations were sparsely settled, so the
sudden appearance of thousands of Mexicans attracted considerable attention and
understandably generated much agitation locally. Perceptions of a breakdown at
the border were heightened by news reports of rising deaths among migrants; by
redirecting flows into harsh, remote terrain the United States tripled the death
rate during border crossing.

Less well known is that American policies also reduced the rate of apprehension,
because those remote sectors of the border had fewer Border Patrol officers. My
research found that during the 1980's, the probability that an undocumented
migrant would be apprehended while crossing stood at around 33 percent; by 2000
it was at 10 percent, despite increases in federal spending on border
enforcement.

Naturally, public perceptions of chaos on the border prompted more calls for
enforcement and the hardening strategy was extended to other sectors. The number
of Border Patrol officers increased from around 2,500 in the early 1980's to
around 12,000 today, and the agency's annual budget rose to $1.6 billion from
$200 million. The boundary between Mexico and the United States has become
perhaps the most militarized frontier between two nations at peace anywhere in
the world.

Although border militarization had little effect on the probability of Mexicans
migrating illegally, it did reduce the likelihood that they would return to
their homeland. America's tougher line roughly tripled the average cost of
getting across the border illegally; thus Mexicans who had run the gantlet at
the border were more likely to hunker down and stay in the United States. My
study has shown that in the early 1980's, about half of all undocumented
Mexicans returned home within 12 months of entry, but by 2000 the rate of return
migration stood at just 25 percent.

The United States is now locked into a perverse cycle whereby additional border
enforcement further decreases the rate of return migration, which accelerates
undocumented population growth, which brings calls for harsher enforcement.

The only thing we have to show for two decades of border militarization is a
larger undocumented population than we would otherwise have, a rising number of
Mexicans dying while trying to cross, and a growing burden on taxpayers for
enforcement that is counterproductive.

We need an immigration policy that seeks to manage the cross-border flows of
people that are inevitable in a global economy, not to repress them through
unilateral police actions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Labor: Unions Back New Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 97 words


A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders meeting in San Diego embraced a new immigration policy as
part of a last-minute effort to block a Congressional push to create a far
larger temporary guest worker program. With landscapers, restaurants, hotels and
fruit growers saying they face a labor shortage, A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders said it
should be addressed by expanding the number of permanent resident work visas.
They said that admitting workers with permanent visas, known as green cards, was
fairer than admitting guest workers who are often treated like second-class
workers.    STEVEN GREENHOUSE (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 More Convicted in Deaths Of Immigrants in a Trailer

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Maureen Balleza and Wendy Grossman contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 8


Overcoming an initial deadlock, a federal jury here on Wednesday convicted three
South Texans in a botched human-trafficking scheme that killed 19 illegal
immigrants sealed in a trailer bound north from the Mexican border in 2003.

Eleven people have now been convicted in the case, the nation's deadliest
human-smuggling disaster. Fourteen were charged after the trailer, crammed with
at least 74 people from Mexico and Central America, was found abandoned at a
truck stop in Victoria, Tex., on May 14, 2003, with 17 bodies inside. Two more
victims died later.

The latest trial featured gripping accounts from survivors, one of whom, Jose
Juan Roldan-Castro, testified that the three and a half hours in the trailer
felt like ''centuries.'' He described tearing holes in the trailer in a
desperate bid for air.

The three defendants, Victor Sanchez Rodriguez, 58, and his wife, Emma Sapata
Rodriguez, 59, of Brownsville, Tex.; and her half-sister, Rosa Maria Serrata,
51, of San Benito, Tex., were together found guilty of 35 of 43 counts involving
the feeding, sheltering and transporting of the victims and survivors, and could
each face up to 20 years in prison. Judge Vanessa D. Gilmore set sentencing for
May 1.

Defense lawyers portrayed them as aiding the immigrants in their quest for ''the
American dream.'' But the government charged that by harboring the immigrants,
the defendants shared responsibility with those who directed the smuggling
operation and with the driver of the truck.

After the verdicts, Judge Gilmore sent the jury of nine men and three women out
again to determine whether the defendants' houses used in the smuggling should
be confiscated by the government. Jurors adjourned early in the afternoon
without reaching a decision and were to continue deliberating Thursday.

It appeared Tuesday that the three-week trial had come apart. Jurors reported
themselves deadlocked. Judge Gilmore read them a standard exhortation to keep
deliberating, and their next note, on Wednesday morning, announced their
agreement on verdicts.

Because the jury found that none of the immigrants ''died as a result of the
conduct'' of the three defendants, the maximum penalty was 20 years instead of
life in prison.

The judge has banned out-of-court comments because of continuing litigation, so
none of the prosecutors, defense lawyers or jurors made any statement.

But based on the federal criminal statute and the federal sentencing guidelines,
Douglas McNabb, senior principal of McNabb Associates, a leading criminal
defense firm in Houston, estimated probable sentences of 8 to 10 years.

Mr. and Mrs. Rodriguez and Ms. Serrata, all American citizens, fled to Mexico
after the incident, but were arrested there and returned for trial.

Their convictions came almost a year after the driver of the truck, Tyrone M.
Williams, 35, of Schenectady, N.Y., was found guilty on smuggling charges in the
same court. But jurors deadlocked on questions of his culpability, and the
government is seeking to retry him on all charges, including a conspiracy count
carrying the death penalty.

Mr. Williams's lawyer has raised claims of racial discrimination, arguing that
he is the only major black defendant and the only one facing the death penalty.
The government argues that he was in a unique position to free the doomed
riders.

In addition to Mr. Williams, two others were tried and convicted in the case,
including a son of the Rodriguezes, and five others pleaded guilty. Two others
had charges dismissed, and one is a fugitive.

Evidence in the case showed that the truck carried its human cargo from
Harlingen, Tex., across a Border Patrol checkpoint in Sarita, Tex., to Robstown,
west of Corpus Christi. But vehicles sent to meet them there had been detained
at the checkpoint, and Mr. Williams was told to drive hours farther to Houston.

With passengers screaming and punching holes in the trailer as the air inside
ran out, Mr. Williams and Fatima Holloway, a woman riding with him, stopped the
truck about two and a half hours later at Victoria, where the doors were thrown
open. Mr. Williams and Ms. Holloway, who became a prosecution witness in a plea
deal, bought water for the survivors and fled in the cab.

Mr. and Mrs. Rodriguez and Ms. Serrata had each faced 58 counts, but on Jan. 31,
with the end of testimony, Judge Gilmore threw out as unsupported 38 counts
against each of the Rodriguezes and 55 against Ms. Serrata. Of the remaining 20
counts against the Rodriguezes, Mr. Rodriguez was convicted of 18, and his wife
of 15. Ms. Serrata was convicted of two of her remaining three charges.

The assistant United States attorney who has led the prosecutions here, Daniel
C. Rodriguez, in final arguments Friday described the Rodriguezes as ''not just
partners in marriage'' but ''partners in crime'' and, using a slang term for
smugglers, called on jurors ''to send a message to these three coyotes.''

David Adler, a lawyer for Victor Sanchez Rodriguez, called the deaths ''a
horrible, horrible tragedy'' but said there was no conspiracy to take the truck
beyond Robstown, where the immigrants were still alive.

Other defense lawyers argued that their clients fed and sheltered the immigrants
and that higher-ups were to blame for sending the truck farther than it was
supposed to go. Gerald E. Bourque, a lawyer for Mrs. Rodriguez, described the
defendants as ''the little people'' standing up against what he called the
government's flawed immigration policy.

But the prosecutor, Mr. Rodriguez, showed photographs of the dead victims and
said, ''Those are the little people in this case.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Sanchez Rodriguez had a role in a human smuggling ring.
(Photo by Pat Sullivan/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 17, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ringleader Gets 35-Year Term In Smuggling Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words


The Chinatown businesswoman who calls herself Sister Ping was sentenced
yesterday to 35 years in prison for running one of New York City's most
lucrative immigrant smuggling rings and for financing the infamous voyage of the
Golden Venture, the rusting freighter that ran aground off Queens in 1993 with
nearly 300 starving immigrants in its fetid hold.

Ten of the immigrants died after they leaped into chilly waves off the Rockaways
in a final effort to reach American soil.

Sister Ping, whose given name is Cheng Chui Ping, was handed the maximum penalty
by the judge after she ignored her lawyers' advice and delivered a meandering
speech for more than an hour, saying she was just another honest victim of
Chinatown's vicious gangs and snakeheads, as immigrant smugglers are known.

Ms. Cheng, 57, was convicted on June 23 after a monthlong trial in Federal
District Court in Manhattan on three counts of immigrant smuggling,
money-laundering and trafficking in kidnapping proceeds. Judge Michael B.
Mukasey was clearly angered by what he called her ''lengthy exercise in
self-justification,'' and as he announced the sentence he said ''it defies
belief'' that Ms. Cheng suggested she was unjustly convicted.

''You are not the victim of fabricated evidence,'' Judge Mukasey told her, his
tone prickling with indignation. ''You were willing to take advantage of the
attraction of the United States for thousands of other people and turn it to
your financial advantage.'' He said this in response to Ms. Cheng's repeated
statements that she loved the United States.

The tough sentence marked the end of a 12-year effort to catch and prosecute Ms.
Cheng and, with the exception of appeals, the end of the case of the Golden
Venture. Martin D. Ficke, the special agent in charge of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement for New York, said Ms. Cheng's was the biggest immigrant smuggling
operation ever investigated in New York. He said the operation had been shut
down.

An assistant United States attorney, Leslie C. Brown, said at the beginning of
the hearing that Ms. Cheng had run an ''extraordinarily lucrative'' operation
that carried people from China aboard barely seaworthy tramp vessels. In a
two-decade smuggling career, the prosecutor said, Ms. Cheng charged exorbitant
rates for a sea trip in which passengers were given little food and sometimes
only two sips of water a day. Once they arrived in the United States she hired
gang members to ensure that they paid their debts to her, Ms. Brown said.

''All this was done for the sole purpose of lining her pockets with ill-gotten
cash,'' Ms. Brown said. She said Ms. Cheng should be held responsible for the
Golden Venture deaths and for the deaths of 14 immigrants who drowned off the
shores of Guatemala in 1998 on another voyage she financed.

Ms. Cheng's lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, argued that her sentence should not be
greater than those given to several members of the Fuk Ching gang from Chinatown
who testified against her as cooperating government witnesses. He said one of
them, Ah Kai, a leader of the gang, had served less than seven years even though
he had confessed to eight murders.

Mr. Hochheiser and Ms. Cheng's many relatives filling the gallery seemed
startled when she rose and started her apparently unscripted speech. Mr.
Hochheiser had just said he had counseled her to make no comments because he
planned to appeal.

Wearing a baggy gray prison T-shirt, with her black hair down to her shoulders
and newly streaked with gray since the trial, Ms. Cheng did not express remorse
or admit any crime. Speaking through a translator, she acknowledged that many of
her relatives had come to the United States through snakeheads, but she said her
only role was to lend them money so they could pay off their debts to the
smugglers. Most had paid $16,000, the standard fee for passage from China, she
said.

''I did not have the ability to arrange for them to be smuggled. All I did when
they were short of money, I loaned it to them,'' she said. Because she was rich,
she said, other smugglers had conducted their business in her name.

She said she had battled to protect herself and her four children from extortion
and kidnapping by the Fuk Ching gang. ''The F.B.I. should be helping me,'' she
said. ''I was taken advantage of a lot in Chinatown.''

Turning to Ms. Brown, the prosecutor, who is in the final weeks of pregnancy,
Ms. Cheng said: ''Once you become a mother you will understand me.''

Ms. Cheng said she would be happier in prison in the United States than free in
her rural village in China. She said she would work in prison to ''lift the
mood'' of new inmates as if they were new immigrants from China.

As she left court, Ms. Cheng, who had said she would never cry in public because
it would upset her relatives, turned to wave at the gallery and showed them a
smile.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cheng Chui Ping, 57, was convicted in the Golden Venture case.
(Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 5, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Mexico: Border Victim Called A Smuggler

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 86 words


An 18-year-old Mexican shot and killed by a United States Border Patrol agent
last week had been detained in the United States 11 times for people smuggling,
a patrol spokesman said. The shooting of Guillermo Martinez has intensified a
debate about illegal immigration and prompted Mexico to open an investigation
and send a diplomatic note to Washington. But Raul Martinez, a spokesman for the
Border Patrol, said in an interview that the Mexican was ''a known people
smuggler who had been detained 11 times prior.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 31, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: New Mexico: Mexican Agent Arrested

BYLINE: By STEVE BARNES (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 124 words


A Mexican immigration agent was arrested Sunday night by Border Patrol officers
near Alamogordo, about 75 miles inside the United States, and the authorities
were considering charging him with immigrant smuggling. Also taken into custody
were three Mexican citizens who were in the country illegally and following the
agent in a second car, the authorities said. Mexico's Interior Ministry said the
agent, Francisco Javier Gutierrez, 43, was fired in 2005 for corruption but
returned to duty after successfully appealing his dismissal. Mr. Gutierrez's
arrest was the most recent of several border incidents involving immigrant
smuggling and drug trafficking that have increased tensions between the United
States and Mexico.   STEVE BARNES (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 4, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Halliburton Subsidiary Gets Contract to Add Temporary Immigration Detention
Centers

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3


The Army Corps of Engineers has awarded a contract worth up to $385 million for
building temporary immigration detention centers to Kellogg Brown & Root, the
Halliburton subsidiary that has been criticized for overcharging the Pentagon
for its work in Iraq.

KBR would build the centers for the Homeland Security Department for an
unexpected influx of immigrants, to house people in the event of a natural
disaster or for new programs that require additional detention space, company
executives said. KBR, which announced the contract last month, had a similar
contract with immigration agencies from 2000 to last year.

The contract with the Corps of Engineers runs one year, with four optional
one-year extensions. Officials of the corps said that they had solicited bids
and that KBR was the lone responder.

A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Jamie Zuieback, said KBR
would build the centers only in an emergency like the one when thousands of
Cubans floated on rafts to the United States. She emphasized that the centers
might never be built if such an emergency did not arise.

''It's the type of contract that could be used in some kind of mass migration,''
Ms. Zuieback said.

A spokesman for the corps, Clayton Church, said that the centers could be at
unused military sites or temporary structures and that each one would hold up to
5,000 people.

''When there's a large influx of people into the United States, how are we going
to feed, house and protect them?'' Mr. Church asked. ''That's why these kinds of
contracts are there.''

Mr. Church said that KBR did not end up creating immigration centers under its
previous contract, but that it did build temporary shelters for Hurricane
Katrina evacuees.

Federal auditors rebuked the company for unsubstantiated billing in its Iraq
reconstruction contracts, and it has been criticized because of accusations that
Halliburton, led by Dick Cheney before he became vice president, was aided by
connections in obtaining contracts. Halliburton executives denied that they
charged excessively for the work in Iraq.

Mr. Church said concerns about the Iraq contracts did not affect the awarding of
the new contract.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, who has monitored the
company, called the contract worrisome.

''With Halliburton's ever expanding track record of overcharging, it's hard to
believe that the administration has decided to entrust Halliburton with even
more taxpayer dollars,'' Mr. Waxman said. ''With each new contract, the need for
real oversight grows.''

In recent months, the Homeland Security Department has promised to increase bed
space in its detention centers to hold thousands of illegal immigrants awaiting
deportation. In the first quarter of the 2006 fiscal year, nearly 60 percent of
the illegal immigrants apprehended from countries other than Mexico were
released on their own recognizance.

Domestic security officials have promised to end the releases by increasing the
number of detention beds. Last week, domestic security officials announced that
they would expand detaining and swiftly deporting illegal immigrants to include
those seized near the Canadian border.

Advocates for immigrants said they feared that the new contract was another
indication that the government planned to expand the detention of illegal
immigrants, including those seeking asylum.

''It's pretty obvious that the intent of the government is to detain more and
more people and to expedite their removal,'' said Cheryl Little, executive
director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami.

Ms. Zuieback said the KBR contract was not intended for that.

''It's not part of any day-to-day enforcement,'' she said.

She added that she could not provide additional information about the company's
statement that the contract was also meant to support the rapid development of
new programs.

Halliburton executives, who announced the contract last week, said they were
pleased.

''We are especially gratified to be awarded this contract,'' an executive vice
president, Bruce Stanski, said in a statement, ''because it builds on our
extremely strong track record in the arena of emergency management support.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Held in 9/11 Net, Muslims Return To Accuse U.S.

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1846 words


Hundreds of noncitizens were swept up on visa violations in the weeks after
9/11, held for months in a much-criticized federal detention center in Brooklyn
as ''persons of interest'' to terror investigators, and then deported. This
week, one of them is back in New York and another is due today -- the first to
return to the United States.

They are no longer the accused but the accusers, among six former detainees who
are coming back to give depositions in their federal lawsuits against top
government officials and detention guards, at a time when the constitutionality
of part of the government's counterterrorism offensive is under new scrutiny.

As in the cases of all the Muslim immigrants rounded up in the New York area
after the terror attacks, the six were never accused of a crime related to 9/11;
officials eventually cleared all of them of links to terrorism. A report by the
inspector general of the Justice Department found systemic problems with
immigrant detentions and widespread abuse at the federal detention center where
the six had been held; several guards have since been disciplined.

But as the six return to the city -- four of them from Egypt, one from Pakistan,
one from London -- the conditions imposed by the United States government
include the requirement that they be in the constant custody of federal
marshals.

They are barred from calling anyone during their weeklong stays at an
undisclosed New York hotel, where 12 days of closed depositions are to begin
today. They can expect hours of questioning by lawyers representing at least 31
defendants in the lawsuits, including John Ashcroft, the former attorney
general, and Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the F.B.I.

The first returning detainees, Yasser and Hany Ibrahim, who are brothers, say
that putting themselves back in the hands of the government they are suing is an
act of faith in America. In recent telephone interviews from Alexandria, Egypt,
the two described themselves as frightened but resolute in pressing a 2002
class-action lawsuit charging that they were abused and deprived of due process
because of their religion or national origin.

''I'm seeking justice,'' said Yasser, 33, who had a Web site design business in
Brooklyn before he and Hany, 29, a deli worker, were delivered in shackles to
the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn 19 days after 9/11. ''It's from
the same system that did us injustice before. But I have faith in this system. I
know what happened before was a mistake.''

Charles S. Miller, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said officials would
not comment on any aspect of the case, including the conditions of the men's
return to the city and their allegations. But in court papers, the defendants
deny wrongdoing, and department lawyers argue in part that the Sept. 11 attacks
created ''special factors'' -- including the need to detect and deter future
terrorist attacks -- that outweigh the plaintiffs' right to sue for damages for
any constitutional violations.

The detainees' lawyers say that what happened at the Brooklyn detention center
can be recognized four years later as the template for many of the
counterterrorism measures now being fiercely challenged.

''The post-9/11 domestic immigration sweeps were the first example of the Bush
administration's willingness to ignore the law and hold people outside the
judicial system,'' said Rachel Meeropol, a lawyer for the Center for
Constitutional Rights, which represents the Ibrahim brothers. ''The kind of
torture, interrogation and arbitrary detention that we now associate with
Guantanamo and secret C.I.A. facilities really started right here, in
Brooklyn.''

Richard Peter Caro, a lawyer for Stuart Pray, the lieutenant who oversaw the
detainees' arrival at the detention center, said yesterday: ''We're glad that
they're coming in to be deposed so we can really get at the facts and finally
see what the evidence shows. I'm confident that my client will be found to have
committed no wrongdoing at all.''

Last week, the center filed a class-action suit against President Bush and other
administration officials over the National Security Agency's domestic
eavesdropping without warrants. Ms. Meeropol is one of the plaintiffs,
contending that her communications with clients like the Ibrahims may have been
monitored illegally. The government says the surveillance program is a legal and
valuable tool in the war on terror.

Illegal recording of lawyer-client conversations was one of the abuses
documented at the Brooklyn detention center in a scathing 2003 report by the
Justice Department's inspector general. The report also found a pattern of
physical abuse, some of it caught on prison videotape, including beatings and
sexual humiliations like those described by the Ibrahim brothers or other former
detainees. The report said it was Mr. Ashcroft's policy to hold detainees on any
legal pretext until the F.B.I. cleared them, even though such clearances took
months and many detainees were immigrants picked up by chance.

At the time, Mr. Ashcroft said he made ''no apologies'' for finding every legal
way possible to protect the American public. Nonetheless, officials pledged to
work on getting kinks out of the system, and said abuses would be punished.

Critics charge that the authority that Mr. Ashcroft asserted after 9/11 -- to
detain any noncitizen considered a ''person of interest'' secretly and
indefinitely -- is unconstitutional. Government officials argue that secrecy is
needed to keep terrorists in the dark.

Mr. Ashcroft has sought to have the two lawsuits brought by the detainees
dismissed. But in a decision appealed by the government, a federal judge in
Brooklyn ruled in September that he and other defendants would have to answer
questions, at a later deposition, in one of the suits: a 2004 complaint by
another two of the six returning detainees.

Those two men, in their late 30's, are Ehab Elmaghraby, an Egyptian immigrant
who ran a restaurant near Times Square, and Javaid Iqbal, a Pakistani immigrant
whose Long Island customers knew him as ''the cable guy.''

''I am not afraid,'' Mr. Iqbal wrote last week in an e-mail message about his
return. ''I am also sure that justice will be served because peoples of U.S.A.
are justice-loving people regardless of race and religion.''

The Ibrahim brothers are more fearful. They say that their parents begged them
not to return to the country where they were held in maximum security without
charges for eight months and, the brothers charge, beaten and tormented by
guards. ''Part of my motivation is to make sure that what happened to us doesn't
happen to more people in the future,'' said Yasser, who was due to arrive in New
York today, joining his brother, who came on Friday.

Both spoke with nostalgia of the three or four years they lived in New York, on
and off, before 9/11. When they were not working, they said, they hung out
together in Greenwich Village, browsed electronics stores near Times Square and
took friends on the rides at Coney Island. Hany proudly recalled how he worked
his way up from stock boy to grill man and then manager of a deli in Ocean
Parkway, Brooklyn. ''The best I lived in my life was in New York,'' he said.

Right after the World Trade Center attack, they said, their parents urged them
to come home. ''We assured them,'' Yasser recalled: '' 'This is the United
States. They don't arrest people for no charges. We didn't do anything, so
nothing's going to happen to us.' ''

But at 2 p.m. on Sept. 30, 2001, the lawsuit says, a dozen terrorism
investigators from the F.B.I., the police and immigration services knocked at
the door of the Ocean Parkway apartment that the brothers shared with several
Egyptian and Moroccan friends. After questioning, the investigators took away
Yasser, Hany and another man, all of whose tourist visas had expired.

Why investigators showed up is unclear, said their lawyer, Ms. Meeropol. But she
noted that some interrogations were prompted by anonymous tips about
''suspicious-looking'' foreign men. Federal officials have contended that at a
time when a second terror attack seemed imminent, all tips had to be checked. As
a practical matter, once the brothers were labeled ''of interest'' to
investigators, they were destined for the maximum-security unit of the
Metropolitan Detention Center.

Physical abuse, the lawsuit says, began the moment they arrived, chained and
shackled. As Yasser described it, guards supervised by Lieutenant Pray slammed
his brother face-first into a wall where an American flag T-shirt had been
taped, then did the same to him.

Pain became part of the brothers' daily routine, the lawsuit charges. Escort
teams cursing them as Muslims and terrorists slammed them into every available
wall when they were taken from their cells, twisted their wrists and fingers,
and stepped on their leg chains so that they fell, their ankles bruised and
bloody, according to the suit.

But worse than physical or verbal abuse, Yasser said, was ''the feeling that we
are being hidden from the outside world, and nobody knows in the outside world
that we are arrested and in this place.'' Hany, who says he had a nervous
breakdown when he returned to Egypt, recalled that guards and lieutenants
terrified him by saying, ''You're going to stay here the rest of your life.''

At a closed immigration hearing on Nov. 20, three weeks after their arrest, the
brothers agreed to immediate deportation. By Dec. 7, the lawsuit says, F.B.I.
memos stated that clearance checks on the Ibrahims had shown no links to
terrorism. But they were held six more months -- Hany until May 29, 2002, and
Yasser until June 6.

The suit asks the court to declare that all the detentions were unjustified and
illegal, to award compensatory and punitive damages, and to order the government
to return personal property it confiscated.

To prevent unnecessary detentions and abuses of noncitizens in the event of a
new national emergency, the Justice Department's inspector general, Glenn A.
Fine, in 2003 recommended changes in counterterrorism policy as well as
disciplinary action against at least 10 guards and supervisors. In his last
report to Congress, in August 2005, Mr. Fine said that many of his
recommendations had been acted upon but that formal policy changes were still
being negotiated.

The Federal Bureau of Prisons has fired two detention officers, suspended two
for 30 days and demoted one in connection with the Brooklyn inquiry, said Traci
Billingsley, a bureau spokeswoman.

The Ibrahim brothers say that when they finally reached home, they found that
the presumption of guilt had followed them into an Egyptian secret service
dossier that made them unemployable. Yasser, now married with a 2-year-old son,
said he and Hany were eking out a living in a small jewelry business.

''It's going to be very difficult for me to go back for just a week and not to
be able to see the places that I loved before,'' he said of his return.
''America's the land of the free.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hany Ibrahim, left, and his brother Yasser last week in
Alexandria, Egypt, where they were deported in 2002. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for
The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill on Illegal-Immigrant Aid Draws Fire

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 935 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29


Churches, social service agencies and immigration groups across the country are
rallying against a provision in the recently passed House border-security bill
that would make it a federal crime to offer services or assistance to illegal
immigrants.

The measure would broaden the nation's immigrant-smuggling law so that people
who assist or shield illegal immigrants would be subject to prosecution.
Offenders, who might include priests, nurses or social workers, could face up to
five years in prison. The proposal would also allow the authorities to seize
some assets of those convicted of such a crime.

Proponents of the legislation have argued that such provisions would make it
harder for illegal immigrants to thrive in the United States by discouraging
people from helping them. The legislation, which cleared the House this month,
could also subject the spouses and colleagues of illegal workers to prosecution.

Several Republicans and Democrats in Congress say the measure appears unlikely
to become law. But the legislation has touched off an outcry among groups that
teach English and offer job training, medical assistance and other services to
immigrants.

The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has written to members of
Congress and called on President Bush to oppose the measure publicly. In
Manhattan, scores of immigrants demonstrated against the bill last week. Here in
the Washington area, a coalition of immigrant-services groups is planning
rallies, visits to members of Congress and a letter-writing campaign to try to
prevent the immigration bill from becoming law.

''We are going to fight this legislation,'' said Gustavo Torres, executive
director of Casa of Maryland, one of the advocacy groups rallying against the
measure. ''The immigrant community is very upset about this.''

Mr. Torres's group offers job placement services and English classes to
thousands of immigrants each year. On Wednesday, as he greeted day laborers
looking for work at his center in Silver Spring, Md., Mr. Torres said he could
not imagine being forced to turn away the needy because they lacked legal
papers.

''We never ask for documentation,'' he said. ''Our mission is to help anyone in
need of service, regardless of their immigration status. We are proud of that.''

Speaking for the Conference of Catholic Bishops, Bishop Gerald R. Barnes of San
Bernardino, Calif., said the measure threatened church workers and doctors as
well as ordinary citizens who provided urgent or life-saving assistance to
illegal immigrants.

''Current legislation does not require humanitarian groups to ascertain the
legal status of an individual prior to providing assistance,'' Bishop Barnes
wrote this month in a letter to Congress. ''The legislation would place parish,
diocesan and social service program staff at risk of criminal prosecution simply
for performing their jobs.''

Supporters of the border-security bill say they are trying to crack down on a
culture of indifference to the nation's immigration laws that has allowed 11
million illegal immigrants to live in this country.

The legislation would make it a federal crime to live in the United States
illegally, which would turn millions of illegal immigrants into felons,
ineligible to win any legal status. It would also stiffen the penalties for
employers who hire illegal immigrants.

''This legislation aims to prevent illegal immigration and re-establish respect
for our immigration laws,'' said Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.,
Republican of Wisconsin, who introduced the legislation in the House.

''Those breaking the law will be held accountable,'' Mr. Sensenbrenner said,
''whether they are smugglers cruelly trafficking in human beings, employers
hiring illegal workers or alien gang members terrorizing communities.''

President Bush has also praised the legislation.

''America is a nation built on the rule of law, and this bill will help us
protect our borders and crack down on illegal entry into the United States,''
Mr. Bush said after the House passed the measure. ''Securing our borders is
essential to securing the homeland.''

In his statement, Mr. Bush did not comment on the provision that is causing such
a furor among churches and nonprofit groups. A White House spokesman referred
questions about Mr. Bush's position on the matter to the Justice Department.

John Nowacki, a spokesman for the department, declined to answer questions about
whether the Bush administration supported the provision.

White House officials have emphasized in recent weeks, however, that Mr. Bush
still believes that any immigration legislation should include a guest worker
program that would grant millions of undocumented workers the right to work
temporarily in this country.

The House bill does not include a guest worker program, but the Senate is
expected to consider such a plan early next year. A guest worker plan would give
legal status to millions of illegal immigrants. If that were to happen, the
measure outlawing assistance to illegal immigrants might be removed or end up
having little effect.

But advocates for immigration said they were still deeply disheartened that Mr.
Bush and members of Congress had not spoken out against the House measure.

''It's mind-boggling,'' said Julie Dinnerstein, deputy director for immigration
policy at the New York Immigration Coalition, which sponsored last week's rally
in New York.

''I think our courts should be focused on people who are doing terrible
things,'' Ms. Dinnerstein said. ''Do we need to send a bunch of priests or
ministers or nurses to jail?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gustavo Torres, left, director of Casa of Maryland, meeting on
Wednesday with a group of immigrants in Silver Spring. He says he cannot imagine
having to turn away needy people because they lack legal papers. (Photo by
Samantha Reinders for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 24, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Capitol's Pariah On Immigration Is Now a Power

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Dec. 21


For nearly a decade, Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, has
been dismissed by his critics as little more than an angry man with a
microphone, a lonely figure who rails against immigration and battles his own
president and party.

So radical were his proposals -- calling for a fence along the United States
border with Canada, for instance -- and so fierce were his attacks on fellow
Republicans who did not share his views that many of his colleagues tried to
avoid him. Mr. Tancredo said Karl Rove, President Bush's senior adviser, had
told him not ''to darken the doorstep of the White House.''

But last week, the man denounced by critics on the left and on the right
suddenly emerged as an influential lawmaker. Pressured by conservative
constituents angered by the continuing flow of illegal immigrants into the
United States, Republicans rallied around Mr. Tancredo to defy the president and
produce the toughest immigration legislation in more than a decade.

Mr. Tancredo and his allies fought successfully to strip the measure of any
language offering support for Mr. Bush's plan to provide temporary legal status
for illegal immigrants working in the United States. And he helped win support
for provisions that once seemed unthinkable to many lawmakers, like the
construction of five fences across 698 miles of the United States border with
Mexico.

Mr. Tancredo did not get everything he wanted. He still wants a moratorium on
legal immigration, soldiers on the border, a longer fence (and one along the
border with Canada) as well as a law that would deny citizenship to children
born to parents who are not citizens or permanent residents. And many
Republicans and Democrats say it seems unlikely that the border security bill
passed by the House last week will become law in its current form, if it ever
becomes law at all.

But as a jubilant Mr. Tancredo returned to his office here this week, there was
little doubt that he had become a symbol of the ascendancy of deeply
conservative thinkers in the bitter Republican debate over immigration policy.
The lonely firebrand had become the man of the moment, and he could not help but
marvel at the wonder of it all.

''I would have said to you a month ago or so, 'Yeah, it's definitely the case
that I am a pariah,' '' Mr. Tancredo, 60, said. ''And a lot of people don't want
to get near me for fear of being tainted or something.''

''But it has changed, and I have had the greatest feeling of respectability
lately,'' he said, laughing. ''I joke with people all the time now. I say, 'I've
got to find a new issue because I'm way too mainstream.'

''I'm, like, respectable and respected. I mean, it leaves me speechless.''

It leaves his critics outraged.

Advocates for immigrants sent press releases after the House passed the border
security bill, accusing the Republican Party of threatening vulnerable immigrant
communities by catering to the extreme right. Business leaders, who had pushed
their traditional allies in the Republican Party to support Mr. Bush's guest
worker plan, fumed.

Republicans, like Representative Jeff Flake of Arizona, who lost the battle to
include at least a mention of the guest worker plan in the bill, shook their
heads in frustration. Asked whether Mr. Tancredo and his allies had more success
in the negotiations over border security than did supporters of Mr. Bush's plan,
Mr. Flake responded, ''You bet.''

But Mr. Flake said he believed that many Republicans voted for the bill because
they believed it would never become law. Mr. Bush had said that immigration
legislation should include his guest worker proposal, which would allow those
currently in the United States illegally to work here legally for a few years
before being required to return home and, if they chose, apply for re-entry. And
the Senate is expected to take up such a measure next year.

With midterm elections looming, Mr. Flake said, many Republicans simply wanted
to address voter concerns about securing the border.

''We weren't so much making law as making a statement here,'' Mr. Flake said.
Mr. Tancredo's allies countered that his support from fellow Republicans was
more than a matter of political expediency; they said it signaled a shift in the
immigration debate.

''Tom was like an Old Testament prophet crying out in the wilderness, and
finally people are starting to listen,'' said Mark Krikorian, executive director
of the Center for Immigrant Studies, an advocacy group that wants strict limits
on immigration.

Mr. Tancredo laughs at the furor. He is genial and ruddy faced, a grandson of
Italian immigrants who loves hunting and keeps Oliver L. North's ''Mission
Compromised'' on his bookshelf. And as he settled in a chair this week to ponder
his career, his hands sliced and diced the air. (''It's the Italian in me,'' Mr.
Tancredo said, describing his gestures. He says he sees no contradiction in his
strong views and his own immigrant ancestry.)

After he was first elected to Congress, in 1998, Mr. Tancredo tried to draw
attention to his stance on immigration by giving late-night speeches on a House
floor almost entirely devoid of spectators but broadcast by C-Span. He created
an immigration caucus, got 16 Republicans to join and became its leader.

Today, Mr. Tancredo has a caucus with about 90 members and a reputation as a
go-it-alone politician willing to sacrifice almost anyone -- including his
colleagues -- to his passion for enforcing and tightening the nation's
immigration laws.

In 2002, he read a front-page article in The Denver Post about parents who were
struggling to send their son to college. They were ineligible for financial aid
because they were illegal immigrants. Outraged that the family felt comfortable
enough to appear in plain view, Mr. Tancredo called the immigration authorities
and asked to have them deported.

He has infuriated members of his own party by attacking President Bush and by
siding against Republicans in Congressional races when their opponents share his
views on immigration. Mr. Tancredo said he got into a shouting match with Mr.
Rove after telling The Washington Times that Mr. Bush would have blood on his
hands if he did not toughen the nation's immigration laws. Mr. Tancredo said
that was when Mr. Rove told him not to darken the White House's doorstep.

''What kind of guy is this,'' Mr. Tancredo said of Mr. Bush, ''who picks and
chooses the laws he enforces?''

The White House declined to characterize the Bush administration's feelings or
Mr. Rove's feelings about Mr. Tancredo. When asked about him, Erin Healy, a
spokeswoman for the White House, said, ''We worked with a number of members in
the House on immigration reform.''

The border security measure would make it a federal crime to live in the United
States illegally, which would turn millions of immigrants into felons,
ineligible to win any legal status. The bill would make it a crime for employees
of social service agencies and church groups to shield or offer support to
illegal immigrants.

The legislation would also require the mandatory detention of some immigrants,
would withhold some federal aid from cities that provide immigrants with
services without checking their legal status and would decrease the number of
legal immigrants admitted annually by eliminating a program that provides 50,000
green cards each year.

''This is a gesture to the xenophobic wing of the party, and that is alarming,''
said Cecilia Munoz, a vice president at the National Council of La Raza. ''It
threatens extraordinary harm to people.''

Mr. Tancredo fears that moderate Republicans, allied with theWhite House,
business leaders and immigration advocates, may derail his efforts by sinking
the bill. And so he is considering taking extraordinary measures, including
running for president in 2008.

''We just took one more island in the chain leading to Tokyo,'' Mr. Tancredo
said, using World War II imagery to describe the battle to pass the House
immigration bill. ''But there are still a lot of bloody battles to fight.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Tom Tancredo, a Republican, talking this week in
his office in Centennial, Colo. Mr. Tancredo wants fences on the nation's
borders. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 9, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clinton Suggests Legalizing Some Immigrants

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8


Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton waded into the contentious issue of immigration
on Wednesday, opening the door to the idea of letting some illegal immigrants
earn legal status in the United States.

Mrs. Clinton made her remarks as members of Congress found themselves deeply
divided over the question of how to deal with the millions of illegal immigrants
working in the United States.

In December, the Republican-led House passed one of the toughest border security
bills in more than a decade, seeking to make it a federal crime to live in the
United States illegally. The legislation would turn millions of immigrants into
felons who would be ineligible to win any legal status.

The bill was approved over the objections of some business leaders and moderate
Republicans, who support President Bush's drive for a comprehensive plan that
would grant millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States a right
to work here temporarily. The Senate has yet to settle on its own plan to
address the issue.

Currently, living in this country without a document like a visa or a green card
is a violation of civil immigration law, not criminal law.

In a letter to constituents, Senator Clinton, who has largely steered clear of
the debate until now, criticized the bill passed in the House, saying it would
''target and criminalize the undocumented and punish those who would provide
them with humanitarian assistance.''

Mrs. Clinton, who is up for re-election this year in New York, was referring to
a provision in the House bill that would make it a federal crime to offer
services or assistance to illegal immigrants. Churches, social service agencies
and immigration groups across the country have sharply criticized that
provision.

In her letter, Senator Clinton did not propose specific legislation to deal with
the issue of illegal immigrants working in this country. But she did say she
supported the idea of giving the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants ''the
opportunity to earn legal status in this country.''

Senator Clinton said that national security is being placed at risk because the
country has an enormous population of people ''we know nothing about.''

''The suggestion that enacting stricter and more enforceable deportation laws
alone can solve this problem ignores reality,'' she said in her letter. ''This
will only force the undocumented deeper underground.''

Mrs. Clinton said that although she opposed granting unconditional amnesty to
illegal immigrants, the country needed a program that encouraged such people to
come forward and identify themselves.

''For those who work hard, pay their taxes, continue to obey the law and
demonstrate a commitment to this country, the opportunity to eventually earn
citizenship should also be available,'' she said.

''A program such as this is not a free ride, and it certainly is not for
everyone,'' she continued. ''Legal status must be earned, as it was by previous
generations of immigrants who became citizens through perseverance and hard
work.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mrs. Clinton Says G.O.P.'s Immigration Plan Is at Odds With the Bible

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 721 words


Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton invoked the Bible yesterday to criticize a
stringent border security measure that, among other things, would make it a
federal crime to offer aid to illegal immigrants.

"It is hard to believe that a Republican leadership that is constantly talking
about values and about faith would put forth such a mean-spirited piece of
legislation,'' she said of the measure, which was passed by the House of
Representatives in December and mirrored a companion Senate bill introduced last
week by Senator Bill Frist, a Tennessee Republican and the majority leader.

''It is certainly not in keeping with my understanding of the Scripture because
this bill would literally criminalize the Good Samaritan and probably even Jesus
himself,'' she said. ''We need to sound the alarm about what is being done in
the Congress.''

Mrs. Clinton, who is running for re-election this year and is leading in polls
for the Democratic presidential nomination, spoke at a news conference in
Manhattan with more than 30 immigrant leaders after meeting with them privately.

The meeting took place in an atmosphere of mounting urgency, as the United
States Conference of Catholic Bishops called on its flock to oppose the measure,
and tens of thousands of immigrants around the country stepped up a series of
protest rallies in anticipation of a Senate vote on competing immigration bills
next week.

Mr. Frist's bill, like the House measure, would make it a crime to be in the
United States without proper papers and would add guards and fencing along the
Mexican border, and speed deportation.

Some versions, including one proposed by Senator Arlen Spector of Pennsylvania,
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, would expand the definition of alien
smuggling to include help to illegal immigrants already here.

Mr. Frist has set a Monday deadline for the Senate Judiciary Committee to
complete its own, broader version of immigration legislation, which could
include ''a path to earned citizenship'' for illegal residents who qualify, and
a guest worker program for foreigners, as well as new enforcement provisions.
But even if a committee bill emerges in time, unless a majority of the
committee's Republicans vote for it, he has vowed that he will not let it reach
the Senate floor. Instead, Mr. Frist, who is also considered a 2008 presidential
contender, said he would seek a vote on his bill, without debate.

Mrs. Clinton had been criticized by some immigrant activists for saying little
about the issue until March 8, and then speaking at an Irish-only rally, rather
than at a forum more representative of immigrants. But yesterday all seemed
forgiven.

Three elected officials, all Democrats -- Representatives Jose E. Serrano and
Nydia Velasquez, and City Council member John C. Liu -- shared the lectern to
denounce the criminal penalties in the Congressional proposals.

Mrs. Clinton said she and New York's other senator, Charles E. Schumer, were
trying to build momentum toward a bipartisan bill that would include a
legalization provision that many Republicans would support in defiance of Mr.
Frist. But any form of legalization is anathema to supporters of the House
measure, co-sponsored by two Republican representatives, Peter King of Long
Island, and F. James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin.

Mrs. Clinton said, ''We want the outcome to be that they're on the wrong side of
politics as well as on the wrong side of history and American values.''

Mr. King has accused church leaders of ''committing the sin of hypocrisy'' in
their campaign to sway Congress and Catholic voters, and of giving illegal
immigrants an incentive to cross the border.

Asked about the political price that could be paid by politicians who defy the
groundswell of anger in border areas where illegal immigration has meant
mounting costs for health care, education and law enforcement, Mrs. Clinton shot
back that not only border areas were affected, but also many communities in New
York, especially on Long Island and in Westchester County.

''I have a lot of sympathy,'' she said, emphasizing her support for an overhaul
that includes federal assistance to local communities, as well as better
enforcement. ''That's why we need comprehensive immigration reform. Taking a
harsh position is not going to solve the problem.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton at a news conference yesterday. Behind
her, from left, are Representative Nydia Velasquez, Councilman John C. Liu and
Representative Jose E. Serrano. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

In the Streets, Suddenly, An Immigrant Groundswell

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; John M. Broder and Rachel L. Swarns contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1203 words


When members of the Senate Judiciary Committee meet today to wrestle with the
fate of more than 11 million illegal immigrants living in the United States,
they can expect to do so against a backdrop of thousands of demonstrators,
including clergy members wearing handcuffs and immigrant leaders in T-shirts
that declare, ''We Are America.''

But if events of recent days hold true, they will be facing much more than that.

Rallies in support of immigrants around the country have attracted crowds that
have astonished even their organizers. More than a half-million demonstrators
marched in Los Angeles on Saturday, as many as 300,000 in Chicago on March 10,
and -- in between -- tens of thousands in Denver, Phoenix, Milwaukee and
elsewhere.

One of the most powerful institutions behind the wave of public protests has
been the Roman Catholic Church, lending organizational muscle to a spreading
network of grass-roots coalitions. In recent weeks, the church has unleashed an
army of priests and parishioners to push for the legalization of the nation's
illegal immigrants, sending thousands of postcards to members of Congress and
thousands of parishioners into the streets.

The demonstrations embody a surging constituency demanding that illegal
immigrants be given a path to citizenship rather than be punished with prison
terms. It is being pressed as never before by immigrants who were long thought
too fearful of deportation to risk so public a display.

''It's unbelievable,'' said Partha Banerjee, director of the New Jersey
Immigration Policy Network, who was in Washington yesterday to help plan more
nationwide protests on April 10. ''People are joining in so spontaneously, it's
almost like the immigrants have risen. I would call it a civil rights movement
reborn in this country.''

What has galvanized demonstrators, especially Mexicans and other Latin Americans
who predominate among illegal immigrants, is proposed legislation -- already
passed by the House of Representatives -- that would make it a felony to be in
the United States without proper papers, and a federal crime to aid illegal
immigrants.

But the proposed measure also shows the clout of another growing force that
elected officials have to reckon with: a groundswell of anger against illegal
immigration that is especially potent in border states and swing-voting suburbs
where the numbers and social costs of illegal immigrants are most acutely felt.

''It's an entirely predictable example of the law of unintended consequences,''
said Joshua Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights, who helped organize the Chicago rally and who said he was
shocked by the size of the turnout. ''The Republican party made a decision to
use illegal immigration as the wedge issue of 2006, and the Mexican community
was profoundly offended.''

Until the wave of immigration rallies, the campaign by groups demanding
stringent enforcement legislation seemed to have the upper hand in Washington.
The Judiciary Committee was deluged by faxes and e-mail messages from
organizations like NumbersUSA, which calls for a reduction in immigration, and
claims 237,000 activists nationwide, and the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which has long opposed any form of amnesty, including a guest-worker
program advocated by President Bush.

Dan Stein, president of the federation, acknowledged the unexpected outpouring
of protesters, but tried to play down its political significance. ''These are a
lot of people who don't vote, can't vote and certainly aren't voting Republican
if they do vote,'' he said.

But others, noting that foreign-born Latinos voted for President Bush in 2004 at
a 40 percent greater rate than Latinos born in the United States, said that by
pursuing the proposed legislation, Republican leaders might have squandered the
party's inroads with an emerging bloc of voters and pushed them into the
Democratic camp.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that of more than 11 million illegal
immigrants, 78 percent are from Mexico or other Latin American countries. Many
have children and other relatives who are United States citizens. Under the
House measure, family members of illegal immigrants -- as well as clergy
members, social workers and lawyers -- would risk up to five years in prison if
they helped an illegal immigrant remain in the United States.

''Imagine turning more than 11 million people into criminals, and anyone who
helps them,'' said Angela Sanbrano, executive director of the Central American
Resource Center of Los Angeles, one of the organizers of Saturday's rally there.
''It's outrageous. We needed to send a strong and clear message to Congress and
to President Bush that the immigrant community will not allow the
criminalization of our people -- and it needed to be very strong because of the
anti-immigrant environment that we are experiencing in Congress.''

Like many advocates for immigrants, Ms. Sanbrano said the protesters would
prefer that Congress passed no immigration legislation rather than criminalizing
those who are here without documents or creating a guest-worker program that
would require millions to go home.

In a telephone briefing sponsored last week by the National Immigration Forum,
the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez Jr., president of the National Hispanic Association of
Evangelicals, warned that elected officials would pay a price for being on the
wrong side of the legislative battle.

''We are talking to the politicians telling them that the Hispanic community
will not forget,'' he said. ''I know there are pure hearts that want to protect
our border and protect our country, but at the same time the Hispanic community
cannot deny the fact that many have taken advantage of an important and
legitimate issue in order to manifest their racist and discriminatory spirit
against the Hispanic community.''

Seventy of the nation's 197 Catholic dioceses have formally committed to the
immigration campaign since the United States Catholic Conference of Bishops
began the effort last year, and church officials are recruiting the rest.

Meanwhile, priests and deacons have been working side by side with immigrant
communities and local immigrant activist groups.

Leo Anchondo, who directs the immigrant campaign for the bishops' conference,
said that he was not surprised by the size of the protests because immigration
advocacy groups had been working hard to build a powerful campaign. ''We hadn't
seen efforts to organize these communities before,'' Mr. Anchondo said. ''It's
certainly a testament to the fact that people are very scared of what seems to
be driving this anti-immigrant legislation, to the point that they are coming
out to make sure they speak and are heard.''

Last night in downtown Los Angeles, Fabricio Fierros, 18, the American-born son
of mushroom-pickers who came to the United States illegally from Mexico, joined
about 5,000 Mexican farmworkers gathered for a Mass celebrating the birthday of
Cesar Chavez.

''It's not fair to workers here to just kick them out without giving them a
legal way to be here,'' Mr. Fierros said, ''To be treated as criminals after all
the work they did isn't fair.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2006



CORRECTION: A picture caption on Monday with an article about rallies in support
of immigrants referred incorrectly in some copies to demonstrators in Los
Angeles, one of them waving a Mexican flag in the foreground. They included farm
workers, but their citizenship was unidentified; they were not known to be from
Mexico.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Farm workers, union members and supporters rallied in Los
Angeles yesterday as the Senate prepared to open debate today on immigration.
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants, Duty and Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 84 words



To the Editor:

Cardinal Roger Mahony's well-reasoned and impassioned plea offers something that
the current administration does not: a sense of humanity and a mature
perspective that considers many factors (the ''big picture'').

In this age of misleading, superficial and repetitive sloganeering (used to
promote the most base and shortsighted policies), it is refreshing to hear a
voice that reflects the positive side of this nation's traditional spirit.

Alex Chapunoff
St. Petersburg, Fla., March 22, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants, Duty and Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 53 words



To the Editor:

Wow! Cardinal Roger Mahoney puts the separation of church and state issue right
out there by stating, ''Denying aid to a fellow human being violates a law with
higher authority than Congress -- the law of God.''

Evidently he wants a line-item veto for his God.

Donald M. Sullivan
Edina, Minn., March 22, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants, Duty and Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 54 words



To the Editor:

The call to Samaritan disobedience in ''Called by God to Help'' may soon apply
to more than Catholic workers. We are on the brink of becoming a nation where
torture is legal and helping the needy is not. Disobeying the law may become a
moral imperative for all of us.

GLENN CHENEY
Sprague, Conn., March 22, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Are Preparing For Big Battle On Immigrants

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE DEBATE;
Pg. 17

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28


Leading Congressional Republicans voiced serious reservations Tuesday about a
new Senate immigration proposal as lawmakers braced for a difficult debate that
will highlight ideological divisions among Senate Republicans as well as with
their counterparts in the House.

The Senate was scheduled on Wednesday to turn to a plan by Senator Bill Frist,
the majority leader, for tougher border controls and stricter law enforcement,
with the expectation that a bipartisan proposal that allows illegal immigrants
to qualify for citizenship would be proposed as an alternative.

Mr. Frist, a Tennessee Republican, said that bipartisan initiative, approved by
the Judiciary Committee on Monday, was not satisfactory. ''It went too far,'' he
said.

Lawmakers acknowledged that the Senate faced days of contentious debate and that
any final measure would be different from both the Frist plan and the Judiciary
Committee proposal. It will also probably differ sharply with a House-approved
plan that focused on slowing the influx of illegal immigrants.

Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the majority leader, said Tuesday that
he did not want to rush to judgment on whether the House and Senate could
eventually agree on a bill. But Mr. Boehner said the House would stand by its
focus on law enforcement and border protection.

''Illegal immigration is just that, illegal,'' he said, ''and Americans expect
us to do something about illegal immigration.''

Mr. Boehner said he was willing to reconsider a House-approved plan to construct
a 700-mile-long fence along the nation's southwest border. But President Bush,
in an interview with CNN on Tuesday, said he was opposed to that idea, saying it
was impractical.

''I don't think anybody believes that you could totally fence off the border and
be effective,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But I do think we ought to be in a position to
give our Border Patrol agents better tools, more effective ways to prevent
people from smuggling people and/or drugs across our border.''

Democrats were generally supportive of the Judiciary Committee plan, lawmakers
said. But there were divisions among them as well, particularly with some labor
leaders opposing a temporary worker program that they see as a threat to
American jobs.

''I don't think there's 100 percent support in my caucus for what time of the
day it is,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader. ''But the
vast majority of the Democrats support this bill.''

Despite the looming political and policy fights, lawmakers in both parties said
it was time for Congress to move ahead on the issue.

''We've put off this problem for too long,'' said Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of
Arizona. ''And I can tell you that in my state, we need a solution to this
because every month that it is put off, the problem becomes more and more
difficult to solve.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Split Over Immigration Reflects Nation's Struggle

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE
CONTEXT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1130 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 28


It is almost as if they are looking at two different Americas.

The Senate Republicans who voted on Monday to legalize the nation's illegal
immigrants look at the waves of immigration reshaping this country and see a
powerful work force, millions of potential voters and future Americans.

The House Republicans who backed tough border security legislation in December
look at the same group of people and see a flood of invaders and lawbreakers who
threaten national security and American jobs and culture.

But both wings of the deeply divided Republican Party are responding to the same
phenomenon: the demographic shift driven by immigration in recent decades, a
wave that is quietly transforming small towns and cities across the country and
underscoring pressures on many parts of the economy.

The United States has always been a nation of immigrants, but today the country
has more than 33 million foreign-born residents, the largest number since the
Census started keeping such statistics in 1850. In 2003, foreign-born residents
made up 11.7 percent of the population, the highest percentage since 1910. And
over the past 16 years, the newcomers, many of them illegal, have poured into
places in the South and Midwest that have not seen sizeable numbers of new
immigrants in generations.

The question of how to cope with the 11 million illegal immigrants believed to
be living here -- whether to integrate them, ignore them or try to send them
home somehow -- is a question gripping many ordinary citizens, religious
leaders, state legislators and policy makers in the White House. And in their
bitter, fractious debate, Republicans in Congress are reflecting what some
describe as the nation's struggle to define itself and, to some degree,
politically align itself, during a period of social change.

The Senate Republicans on the Judiciary Committee who emerged victorious on
Monday with help from Democrats argue that those illegal immigrants who work,
pay taxes and learn English should be fully incorporated into American society
as citizens. The House Republicans who passed a far different bill in December
are pushing to criminalize their presence in the United States. (The full Senate
is expected to vote on immigration legislation next week. Any bill that passes
the Senate will have to be reconciled with the House legislation.)

As the party struggles to reconcile these competing visions, frustrations over
the stalemate are spilling onto the airwaves and into the streets as some
conservatives on talk radio call for a wall to be built along the Mexican border
and tens of thousands immigrants and their supporters march in favor of
citizenship.

''Right now, we're seeing to some extent the political response to the
demography,'' said Roberto Suro, executive director of the Pew Hispanic Center,
a nonpartisan research group in Washington. ''And even though the legislative
proposals are seemingly technical and narrow, they touch these nerves about how
we think of ourselves as a people.''

''You end up, after a point, trying to balance our fundamental traditions, the
need for order, law and security with a need for openness,'' he said.
''Immigration policy, writ large, has always been partly a matter of national
identity. It becomes a values-laden debate. Congress has a hard time with it.''

That difficulty reflects, in part, the swiftness and the enormousness of the
demographic shift.

In 1970, there were 9.6 million foreign-born residents in the country, census
data show. By 1980, that figure had surged to 14.1 million. Between 1990 and
2000, the number of foreign-born residents jumped to 31.1 million from 19.8
million.

Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, who voted for the legalization of
illegal immigrants on Monday, says he has seen and felt the shift in his own
state.

''Huge increase,'' he said of the number of new immigrants. ''It's a big issue,
and it's one where communities that have adapted to it are more accepting and
others are more questioning about the scale of what's taking place.''

But when he wrestled with the issue, Mr. Brownback decided that he could not
join the ranks of those who wanted simply to push out illegal immigrants. ''This
is also about the hallmark of a compassionate society, what you do with the
widows, the orphans and the foreigners among you,'' he said.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, echoed those thoughts in
his defense of the legalization program, which would ultimately grant immigrants
citizenship.

''Where is home?'' Mr. Graham asked his colleagues Monday. ''Their home is where
they've raised their children. Their home is where they've lived their married
lives.''

''Whatever we do,'' he added, ''we have to recognize that for several
generations people have made America their home.''

But to Representative Tom Tancredo, the Colorado Republican who helped spearhead
the border security bill in the House, illegal immigrants are far from welcome
or essential to this country.

He was not moved when he saw the tens of thousands of immigrants, some illegal,
and their supporters rallying against his bill. He said he was outraged that
people he viewed as lawbreakers felt comfortable enough to stand without fear in
front of the television cameras.

''For years, the government has turned a blind eye to illegal immigrants who
break into this country,'' Mr. Tancredo said. ''It isn't any wonder that illegal
aliens now act as if they are entitled to the rights and privileges of
citizenship.''

Mr. Tancredo's view of the illegal immigrant as an unwanted outsider, an
encroacher, is far from uncommon.

The National Conference of State Legislatures has reported a surge in recent
years in legislation intended to crack down on illegal immigrants. As of Feb.
28, state legislators in 42 states had introduced 368 bills related to
immigration or immigrants, and many of those bills were intended to limit or
restrict illegal immigrants.

But some Republicans are warning now that tough anti-immigrant legislation may
fuel a backlash and threaten the party's hard-won gains with Hispanics, whose
numbers have surged in recent years.

Foreign-born Hispanics voted for President Bush in 2004 at a 40 percent greater
rate than Hispanics born in the United States. Grover Norquist, president of
Americans for Tax Reform and a strategist close to the White House, warned that
Republicans could squander what the party had gained if lawmakers did not
embrace a more welcoming vision of America.

''There is a danger that if the face of the Republican Party is Tancredo that we
could be weaker with Hispanics for generations,'' Mr. Norquist said. ''If the
face of the Republican Party is George Bush or Ronald Reagan, we win. This is up
for grabs.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who
supports a legalization plan, was surrounded by reporters yesterday on Capitol
Hill. Lawmakers say they face days of contentious debate on the issue.
 Immigration was the topic of discussion yesterday after two leading
Republicans, Senators John McCain of Arizona and Bill Frist of Tennessee, the
majority leader, left a policy luncheon on Capitol Hill. (Photographs by Doug
Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 122 words



To the Editor:

You boldly state that the Senate bill ''isn't amnesty.''

Let's see: millions of people break the laws of the United States and are
allowed to stay in the country and become citizens provided that they pay a
paltry $2,000 fine and learn rudimentary English.

Notably, there is no penalty or mention of what happens to those who choose not
to take the pathway to citizenship: they simply stay in the country
indefinitely.

Why not secure the border first and leave the treatment of illegal immigrants
until the time that the security problem has been solved? It is as if Congress
is in a sinking boat and arguing about where to sail next rather than repairing
the leak.

Bradley W. Johnson
Hinsdale, Ill., March 29, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

My grandparents migrated here from Lithuania at the turn of the last century,
fleeing persecution.

They came here legally. They passed health tests. My grandfather immediately and
totally embraced his country. Everyone had to speak English and learned it. My
grandfather was always walking around saying, ''God bless America -- where else
can you hold two jobs?''

Today, there are still immigrants like my grandfather who come here legally and
who totally accept the United States, but there are millions with questionable
backgrounds who are here to exploit. They are also closing off jobs that
Americans need; the construction industry is a prime example.

I am typical of the way many Americans feel about illegal immigrants. God bless
the legal immigrants; deport the illegals.

Barbara Gordon
New York, March 28, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Calls 2 Main Ideas On Immigrants Unrealistic

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 701 words


Wading into the national immigration debate, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said
this week that two major proposals under discussion in Washington --
criminalization of illegal immigration and a temporary worker program championed
by President Bush -- were unrealistic, shortsighted and a distraction from more
pressing issues, like better border control and verification of job applicants'
documents.

The mayor, a Republican, all but endorsed amnesty for illegal immigrants, a
position that is anathema to most Republican leaders in Washington.

''We're not going to deport 12 million people, so let's stop this fiction,'' the
mayor said in an interview taped on Monday and telecast last evening on CNN.
''Let's give them permanent status.''

The mayor expressed a similar view on Monday morning, during a news conference
on Staten Island, when he said large-scale deportations were impossible and
added: ''We've got to figure out what to do, whether we can engage them and get
the value of them being here. They're already here. They do a lot of jobs that a
lot of other people don't seem to want to take.''

At the news conference, the mayor said, ''I'm not going to focus on any one
plan, whether it's the president's, or the McCain-Kennedy one, or any of the
others.''

He made similar statements last year during his campaign for re-election.

The House of Representatives has passed a bill that would make it a federal
crime to remain in this country illegally -- it is now a violation of civil
immigration law -- while the Senate Judiciary Committee has approved a bill,
proposed by Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and John McCain of
Arizona, that would eventually allow an estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants to work toward citizenship.

Mr. Bloomberg has recently spoken up on several issues, like gun control, on
which he is at odds with most of his fellow Republicans. While he has repeatedly
spurned the notion of running for higher office, some of his aides have
persisted in urging him to do so.

In the CNN interview, Mr. Bloomberg said a guest-worker or temporary-worker
program would not work.

''Are you going to leave after six years?'' he asked. ''Come on. That's just
postponing the problems for the next generation, the next Congress.''

The interview with Mr. Bloomberg was taped while he rode the No. 7 subway line,
which goes through neighborhoods in Queens, like Jackson Heights, that are among
the most heavily populated by immigrants.

The mayor said of legalizing immigrants: ''It may very well be rewarding
lawbreaking. But let's get real. I mean, you know, we don't live in a perfect
world.''

Mr. Bloomberg, according to the CNN report, spoke in favor of tighter controls
at the borders with Mexico and Canada; a technological system for employers to
verify identification documents; and generous visa policies for doctors,
engineers and other skilled professionals.

Mr. Bloomberg has long been seen as supporting immigrants' rights. In September
2003, he signed an executive order that generally prohibited city agencies,
including the police, from asking people about their immigration status and from
sharing such information with federal agencies. He has also expanded translation
services in the city's schools and in Medicaid and welfare offices.

''He's been pretty consistent in his views on undocumented immigrants,'' said
Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
alliance of 150 organizations. ''He's very practical. He rightly recognizes that
because the federal government hasn't done its job, it creates an additional
burden for state and local governments as they try to carry out their job.''

Even so, Councilman Kendall B. Stewart, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of
the City Council's Committee on Immigration, called for the mayor to support
amnesty explicitly.

''I think he should say that so that at least all of us in New York City know
that he's on the immigrants' side,'' said Mr. Stewart, who immigrated to the
United States in 1973 from St. Vincent and the Grenadines. ''You can't say that
you support the immigrants and not stand up for them and say exactly how you
want to support them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Cities, 2 Approaches To Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK.

E-mail: purnick@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 768 words


THEY marched across the Brooklyn Bridge by the thousands on Saturday, carrying
signs, pushing baby carriages, waving flags, enjoying the April warmth. A
typical demonstration in New York -- a week late.

The first major demonstration in the old melting pot against proposed
immigration legislation took place a week after a protest in Los Angeles. And
the turnout, though large, was modest compared with the more than half a million
who marched in Los Angeles and the tens of thousands who marched in other cities
recently.

New York, which likes to think it is different even when it isn't, sometimes
really is. In many ways, Los Angeles and New York City are similar. From 35
percent to 38 percent of each metropolitan region is foreign-born.

But California, which shares a border with Mexico and has more undocumented
immigrants than New York does, harbors a longstanding unease about immigrants.
New York considers immigrants central to its vitality.

Joseph Salvo, director of the City Planning Department's population division,
has pointed out that immigrants compensate for population losses. ''If we didn't
have immigration, I don't know where we'd be,'' he said last year when he and a
colleague issued a report on the city's diversity.

That's another main contrast: New York's immigrants make up an international
stew while Los Angeles's immigrants are largely Mexican -- citizens and
noncitizens who share a history and a culture and have become a political force.

No immigrant group dominates in New York. The largest segment of the city's 3.2
million foreign-born is Dominican, with an estimated 369,000 people, followed by
Chinese (261,500). There are Jamaicans, Guyanese, Mexicans, Ecuadoreans,
Haitians, Trinidadians, Koreans, Filipinos, Irish, Colombians, Russians -- to
name just some.

The city's Puerto Ricans -- 789,000 in the 2000 census -- are citizens, so they
would not be affected by the proposed legislation.

''Here, you can't have a strategy where you get one dominant group to guarantee
500,000 people because we're so diverse,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive
director of the New York Immigration Coalition. ''You almost have to do what
they did in the Mexican community in Los Angeles, with 10 different
communities.''

What they did in Los Angeles was mobilize, encouraged by Spanish-speaking radio
personalities, labor leaders and Roman Catholic clergy. Cardinal Roger Mahony of
the Archdiocese of Los Angeles vehemently attacked a House bill that would make
it a federal crime to offer aid to illegal immigrants and pledged a campaign of
civil disobedience if it became law.

Cardinal Edward M. Egan of the Archdiocese of New York has not spoken out on the
subject, though an archdiocese spokesman, Joseph Zwilling, said yesterday that
in a recent news release the cardinal urged Congress to address immigration
reform in a ''fair and humane'' way.

CARDINAL Mahony's remarks drew national attention, and Los Angeles's Latino
radio hosts -- who play an influential role not mirrored in New York -- drew
crowds, using the airwaves to encourage listeners to demonstrate.

Poor, illegal immigrants don't have an easy time in New York, where many cope
with low wages and crowded, substandard housing. Some encounter bias, especially
beyond the city, in eastern Long Island.

But clearly the political climate in New York is more accepting than it is in
California. The mayor of Los Angeles and California's governor are generally
supportive of immigrants, but statewide ballot initiatives have outlawed
affirmative action in public universities and bilingual education in public
schools and the public voted to cut off state-financed services to illegal
immigrants.

New York's policies and politics are so immigrant-friendly that if former Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani runs for president, he'll have to explain his pro-immigrant
record to Republican hard-liners.

''New York is a lot more friendly to immigrants, while out there they've
mobilized to fight battles,'' said Nancy Rosas, a California native, at the
Brooklyn end of New York's demonstration as she passed Irish and Salvadoran
construction workers on a break, cheering on the marchers.

Most of the protesters probably did not realize that, as David B. Caruso of The
Associated Press wrote, they marched from a Brooklyn neighborhood settled by the
Dutch across a bridge designed by a German immigrant and rallied near Chinatown
in an area that once held Irish slums.

Along the way, as they crossed the bridge built by Irish, Italian and German
immigrant workers, they got a great view of the Statue of Liberty.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Vacuum

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 327 words


Immigration is a national problem that too many local governments have
mistakenly tried to fix. Take Manassas, Va., where the City Council has finally
suspended what was clearly an unconstitutional housing ordinance aimed at
immigrants, mainly Hispanics. The Council wanted to make it illegal to have too
many extra aunts, uncles and cousins in a single residence, although the word
was out that Anglo cousins did not have to worry.

Or, there was the New Hampshire sheriff who tried accusing illegal immigrants of
trespassing on United States territory -- a claim that had no standing in court
but made him a hero in the angry, anti-immigrant crowd. And one Connecticut
community nearly banned volleyball because it was the sport of choice for some
South American workers.

Mostly these punitive measures have failed, but it is easy to see why home-grown
proposals are expanding. The immigration system in this country is broken, and
Washington has failed to solve the nation's border crisis in a humane and
practical way. So localities suffer the chaos and try to end it.

At this point, only the House has acted, passing a bill so draconian it sounds
like something out of the Know-Nothing anti-Irish movement of 150 years ago.
Co-sponsored by Representatives James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin and Peter King
of New York, both Republicans, it's full of extreme measures -- like 700 miles
of fences on the Mexican border. But the worst part of the bill makes it a
felony to shield or offer support to undocumented immigrants, even unknowingly.
So what about the church group that provides shelter, no questions asked, or the
woman who drives a neighbor to the store?

After an outcry from groups that help the needy, Mr. King said he hopes to amend
the bill. A better hope would be that it dies quietly and that the Senate finds
a more reasonable way to untangle the immigration mess so local governments can
stop trying to solve a national problem town by town.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 7, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Money for Border Activities

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET: HOMELAND
SECURITY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 395 words


Preventing foreigners from illegally entering the United States -- and trying to
expeditiously deport those who do -- is the top priority in Department of
Homeland Security budget, which increases spending nearly 6 percent, even as
many other parts of the federal budget are flat or being cut.

The higher spending would be financed, at least in part, by a proposed increase
in the aviation security fee, which would go to $5 for each one-way trip from
$2.50 per flight. Antiterrorism grants for local and state governments would
also be cut significantly.

Some of the largest increases in the department's $42.7 billion budget would
come at the agencies charged with patrolling the border and enforcing
immigration laws. The Homeland Security budget can be totaled several ways.
Overall spending, including programs mandated by law and those supported by
user-fees such as aviation security, would be $42.7 billion, up 5.8 percent. The
net discretionary budget authority would be $30.95 billion, up less than 1
percent from this year.)

The Border Patrol would get an extra $459 million to hire 1,500 new agents,
bringing the total force to about 14,000. Another $410 million would be
allocated to add 6,700 beds for detainees, so fewer illegal immigrants would
have to be released before they were deported. Another $100 million would be
spent on new border cameras, sensors and other detection technology.

The budget also adds $100 million to set up more fugitive apprehension and
worksite enforcement teams, an extra $94 million to deport illegal immigrants
more quickly and $135 million in additional money to expand an electronic
citizenship verification system so employers can see if new job applicants are
in the country legally.

The department can afford all of this new spending, while still keeping its
overall budget increase at about 6 percent, in part by cutting more than $1
billion in taxpayer-financed spending at the Transportation Security
Administration and replacing it with the higher passenger user fees.

Antiterrorism grants would also be cut by about $500 million, to $2.5 billion,
with the largest reductions coming in money allocated by formula to states and
in firefighter assistance grants. But grants given direct to cities deemed at
highest risk for terrorist attacks would go up by $80 million to a total of $838
million.   ERIC LIPTON


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PhotoChart:$30.9 billion+1.3Note: Percentages represent changes from
last year's discretionary budget.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Mid-Atlantic: Protest Over Immigration Proposal

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 66 words


Several thousand immigrants in cities around the country stayed home from work
to protest a proposed federal law that would make illegal immigration a felony
and would threaten with criminal penalties anyone who offered assistance to an
illegal immigrant. Rallies were held in Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and
Washington for the national Day Without an Immigrant protest.   IAN URBINA (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Card We Should All Carry

BYLINE: By Douglas McGray.

Douglas McGray is a fellow at the New America Foundation.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: San Francisco


AS states get ready to comply with a law passed last May and roll out Real ID's
(think 50 flavors of enhanced drivers' licenses that will also, for lack of
anything more suitable, regulate access to airplanes, bars and banks), it might
be time to consider a national identification card. Unfortunately, two camps own
the conversation.

Security heavies and cultural conservatives say a national ID is necessary to
protect us from Islamic terrorists and illegal immigrants. Libertarians and
government-wary leftists fret about privacy. Progressives and moderates have
never shown much enthusiasm for the debate. But there are lots of reasons they
should find the idea of a national ID appealing. Among them:

HEALTH CARE -- Today, if you go to the emergency room, your medical history is
whatever you remember to tell your doctor. Health care reformers long to build
an electronic health database so medical records can follow patients wherever
they go. Congress passed legislation in 1996 to safeguard just such a database.
A national ID network could provide the backbone, and the security.

VOTER EMPOWERMENT -- In 2004, Republican Party officials sent thousands of
volunteers to challenge voters at the polls. They claimed Democrats were
registering felons, illegal immigrants and people with fake names. Democrats
said Republicans were trying to discourage voting in Democratic-leaning
counties. Enough already: a national ID could replace voter registration
bureaucracy and speed all citizens to the polls.

POVERTY -- Without a stable address or the cash to pay registration fees, the
homeless struggle to get a valid photo ID. Even the working poor can find
themselves without ID if a few parking tickets hit at the wrong time, and their
drivers' licenses are suspended. A national ID would make it easier for the now
officially anonymous to claim benefits, apply for work, get health care, cash a
check, enter a government building or open a savings account.

EDUCATION -- The No Child Left Behind Act relies on broad and potentially
misleading measures to guess at school quality, because there is no way to track
individual children from grade to grade and see how they progress. School
districts have no way to know which students quit school and which ones have
just moved across town, which means federal accountability schemes have no way
of factoring in dropout rates. A national ID database could allow for more
honest accounting.

SOCIAL WELFARE -- The tangle of agencies that work with the disadvantaged have
no good way to share data. It was only a decade ago, for example, that
researchers began proving that federal spending to reduce homelessness cuts
costs in the prison, health care and welfare systems. A national ID database
might lead to better allocation of resources, and quicker responses to emerging
needs.

IMMIGRATION -- A national ID would help Immigration and Customs Enforcement
shift its emphasis off impoverished undocumented workers and onto the often
unscrupulous businessmen who hire them. For now, if a businessman, a farmer or a
labor contractor gets pulled over driving a truckload of illegal immigrants,
they can play dumb -- even if they sold the workers their fake ID's. ''The
workers aren't going to say anything, because they need the job,'' says Brian
Poulson, the customs enforcement chief for California's Central Valley. ''Am I
going to get any material witnesses? No.'' The government's only real option is
to arrest the laborers. ''It's only the little guy that gets hurt,'' he says.

All this is not to dismiss privacy concerns. They are huge. But the notion of a
national ID created to empower citizens, rather than just monitor us and protect
us from foreigners, might inspire progressives and centrists to design a card
that works. Or at least broaden the conversation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Gospel vs. H.R. 4437

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 398 words


It has been a long time since this country heard a call to organized lawbreaking
on this big a scale. Cardinal Roger Mahony of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
Los Angeles, the nation's largest, urged parishioners on Ash Wednesday to devote
the 40 days of Lent to fasting, prayer and reflection on the need for humane
reform of immigration laws. If current efforts in Congress make it a felony to
shield or offer support to illegal immigrants, Cardinal Mahony said, he will
instruct his priests -- and faithful lay Catholics -- to defy the law.

The cardinal's focus of concern is H.R. 4437, a bill sponsored by James
Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin and Peter King of New York. This grab bag
legislation, which was recently passed by the House, would expand the definition
of ''alien smuggling'' in a way that could theoretically include working in a
soup kitchen, driving a friend to a bus stop or caring for a neighbor's baby.
Similar language appears in legislation being considered by the Senate this
week.

The enormous influx of illegal immigrants and the lack of a coherent federal
policy to handle it have prompted a jumble of responses by state and local
governments, stirred the passions of the nativist fringe, and reinforced
anxieties since 9/11. Cardinal Mahony's defiance adds a moral dimension to what
has largely been a debate about politics and economics. ''As his disciples, we
are called to attend to the last, littlest, lowest and least in society and in
the church,'' he said.

The cardinal is right to argue that the government has no place criminalizing
the charitable impulses of private institutions like his, whose mission is to
help people with no questions asked. The Los Angeles Archdiocese, like other
religious organizations across the country, runs a vast network of social
service programs offering food and emergency shelter, child care, aid to
immigrants and refugees, counseling services, and computer and job training.
Through Catholic Charities and local parishes, the church is frequently the help
of last resort for illegal immigrants in need. It should not be made an arm of
the immigration police as well.

Cardinal Mahony's declaration of solidarity with illegal immigrants, for whom
Lent is every day, is a startling call to civil disobedience, as courageous as
it is timely. We hope it forestalls the day when works of mercy become a federal
crime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Called by God to Help

BYLINE: By Roger Mahony.

Roger Mahony is the cardinal archbishop of Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


I'VE received a lot of criticism for stating last month that I would instruct
the priests of my archdiocese to disobey a proposed law that would subject them,
as well as other church and humanitarian workers, to criminal penalties. The
proposed Border Protection, Antiterrorism and Illegal Immigration Control bill,
which was approved by the House of Representatives in December and is expected
to be taken up by the Senate next week, would among other things subject to five
years in prison anyone who ''assists'' an undocumented immigrant ''to remain in
the United States.''

Some supporters of the bill have even accused the church of encouraging illegal
immigration and meddling in politics. But I stand by my statement. Part of the
mission of the Roman Catholic Church is to help people in need. It is our Gospel
mandate, in which Christ instructs us to clothe the naked, feed the poor and
welcome the stranger. Indeed, the Catholic Church, through Catholic Charities
agencies around the country, is one of the largest nonprofit providers of social
services in the nation, serving both citizens and immigrants.

Providing humanitarian assistance to those in need should not be made a crime,
as the House bill decrees. As written, the proposed law is so broad that it
would criminalize even minor acts of mercy like offering a meal or administering
first aid.

Current law does not require social service agencies to obtain evidence of legal
status before rendering aid, nor should it. Denying aid to a fellow human being
violates a law with a higher authority than Congress -- the law of God.

That does not mean that the Catholic Church encourages or supports illegal
immigration. Every day in our parishes, social service programs, hospitals and
schools, we witness the baleful consequences of illegal immigration. Families
are separated, workers are exploited and migrants are left by smugglers to die
in the desert. Illegal immigration serves neither the migrant nor the common
good.

What the church supports is an overhaul of the immigration system so that legal
status and legal channels for migration replace illegal status and illegal
immigration. Creating legal structures for migration protects not only those who
migrate but also our nation, by giving the government the ability to better
identify who is in the country as well as to control who enters it.

Only comprehensive reform of the immigration system, embodied in the principles
of another proposal in Congress, the Secure America and Orderly Immigration
bill, will help solve our current immigration crisis.

Enforcement-only proposals like the Border Protection act take the country in
the opposite direction. Increasing penalties, building more detention centers
and erecting walls along our border with Mexico, as the act provides, will not
solve the problem.

The legislation will not deter migrants who are desperate to survive and support
their families from seeking jobs in the United States. It will only drive them
further into the shadows, encourage the creation of more elaborate smuggling
networks and cause hardship and suffering. I hope that the Senate will not take
the same enforcement-only road as the House.

The unspoken truth of the immigration debate is that at the same time our nation
benefits economically from the presence of undocumented workers, we turn a blind
eye when they are exploited by employers. They work in industries that are vital
to our economy yet they have little legal protection and no opportunity to
contribute fully to our nation.

While we gladly accept their taxes and sweat, we do not acknowledge or uphold
their basic labor rights. At the same time, we scapegoat them for our social
ills and label them as security threats and criminals to justify the passage of
anti-immigrant bills.

This situation affects the dignity of millions of our fellow human beings and
makes immigration, ultimately, a moral and ethical issue. That is why the church
is compelled to take a stand against harmful legislation and to work toward
positive change.

It is my hope that our elected officials will understand this and enact
immigration reform that respects our common humanity and reflects the values --
fairness, compassion and opportunity -- upon which our nation, a nation of
immigrants, was built.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Debate Framed by Family Ties

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3


During the heated immigration debate on Capitol Hill, some Republicans have
portrayed immigrants as invaders, criminals and burdens to society. But for
Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, the image that comes to mind
is that of his mother and the day the authorities took her away.

It was 1943, World War II was raging, and federal agents were sweeping through
Albuquerque hunting for Italian sympathizers. They found Mr. Domenici's mother,
Alda V. Domenici, a curly-haired mother of four and a local PTA president who
also happened to be an illegal immigrant from Italy. Mr. Domenici, who said he
was 9 or 10 years old then, wept when his mother vanished with the agents in
their big black car.

Now 73, Mr. Domenici surprised many of his colleagues when he stood up on the
Senate floor last week and shared the story, which he has kept mostly to himself
for much of his life.

But his powerful account reflects a broader reality that has gone almost
unnoticed as Republicans feud over whether to legalize the nation's illegal
immigrants. Among the most passionate Republican voices in this debate are
lawmakers with strong immigrant ties, who have woven the strands of family
history into an outlook that has helped shape their legislative positions.

The close connection has convinced some lawmakers of the importance of providing
citizenship to illegal immigrants, while others say it should be granted more
sparingly.

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, which voted last week to legalize millions of illegal immigrants,
said his parents came to the United States from Russia in the early 1900's.
Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, who supports a more limited temporary
worker program, said he grew up listening to the stories of his grandparents,
who arrived from the Netherlands sometime before 1910.

And Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, fled Cuba for Florida in 1962,
when he was 15, and lived in orphanages and with foster families until he was
reunited with his family four years later.

These men carry the memories of relatives who spoke with the sonorous accents of
their homelands, fading black-and-white photographs of the newcomers to the
United States and the names of villages in faraway places. All four support
bills that would allow illegal immigrants to work here for a period, though
their singular experiences have resulted in different perspectives on the
question of whether the immigrants should become citizens.

In the 19th and early 20th centuries, when foreign-born senators and those with
immigrant parents were much more common, their stories would have been
unremarkable, Senate historians say. These days, the lawmakers say, their family
histories -- particularly those of Mr. Domenici, Mr. Specter and Mr. Martinez --
give them something of an unusual vantage point.

''I understand this whole idea of a household with a father who is American and
a mother who is not, but they are living, working and getting ahead,'' said Mr.
Domenici, whose mother was married to an American citizen. ''I understand that
they are just like every other family in America. There is nothing different.''

Mr. Domenici's mother was 3 when she arrived in the United States with her
family from Italy and about 38 when the authorities came looking for her. She
was married to an Italian-born American citizen, who owned a grocery store, and
thought her papers were in order.

After she was picked up on that day in 1943, Mrs. Domenici was released on bond
to return home to her family. Over the next six months, she completed the
necessary paperwork to become a citizen.

Mr. Domenici said his experience had persuaded him to introduce legislation that
would grant illegal immigrants like his mother, who have deep roots in the
community, the chance to become citizens, while more recent arrivals would be
allowed to work here only temporarily.

He does not support the bill passed by Mr. Specter's committee, which would not
distinguish between recent arrivals and those who have spent several years here.
''You ought to try and give people with five years and more the opportunity for
some kind of break,'' Mr. Domenici said.

Of course, supporters of temporary work programs are not the only ones with
immigrant relatives.

Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, one of the fiercest critics
of efforts to legalize immigrants, said his orphaned father was about 11 when he
arrived at Ellis Island from Italy around the turn of the 20th century and made
his way to the Rocky Mountains.

Mr. Tancredo pondered a bit when asked whether his immigrant background had
played a role in shaping his views. Then he thought back to his mother's
parents, also from Italy.

''I certainly think back on the fact that their greatest desire was to be
Americanized,'' Mr. Tancredo said. ''This desire to cut with the old and attach
to the new, speak English, stuff like that. If there was anything, maybe that
was an influence.''

James A. Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential
Studies at American University, said lawmakers in Congress often reflected, to
some extent, the demographics of the nation. Dr. Thurber also said he believed
that the current wave of immigration from Latin America would fuel an increase
in the number of foreign-born members of Congress.

''First and second generation, we had larger numbers of those in Congress in the
1800's and early 1900's,'' Dr. Thurber said. ''Now, for most people, it's third
and fourth generation. They remember the stories, but they don't feel it in
their guts the way you would if you were socialized by parents.''

Mr. Specter says he still feels it. He keeps the old photographs hanging in his
office, on the wall behind his wooden desk. There is his father, slim and solemn
in his World War I uniform, standing alongside his young bride draped in lace.

His father fled anti-Semitism in Russia and arrived in this country when he was
18. After the war, he settled in the Midwest, where he sold cantaloupes from the
back of a car and ran a scrap yard.

Mr. Specter said his parents' struggles and successes had profoundly influenced
his thinking in shepherding immigration legislation through the Judiciary
Committee.

''You talk about America being a nation of immigrants,'' he said, ''well, my two
best friends were immigrants, my mother and my father. I saw how they struggled.
They struggled with the language. They struggled with anti-Semitism. They
struggled to make a living. It was tough. You knew you were different.

''So I have a lot of simpatico for the individuals who are immigrants. I have
even more of an understanding of what immigrants have done for the country.''

Mr. Martinez, the Florida Republican, echoed those thoughts, saying his own
success in the United States had convinced him that given the opportunity,
illegal immigrants would also succeed. ''America has a way of bringing us in,''
he said, ''welcoming us and allowing us to become a part of the whole.''

Mr. Specter, 76, and Mr. Martinez, 59, whose parents fled oppression in their
home countries, both support a plan that would eventually grant citizenship to
illegal immigrants who spend six more years here, pay fines and back taxes, and
learn English.

But on Monday, Mr. Specter said that he and other Republicans were also willing
to consider a proposal along the lines of Mr. Domenici's. Senator Kyl, the
Arizona Republican, backs a much more limited program. He said that his
grandparents, who settled in Nebraska, spoke Dutch and heavily accented English
and emphasized old-fashioned values, ''frugality and the ability to make it on
hard work, grit, honesty.''

If they were still alive, Mr. Kyl said, they would look at modern-day illegal
immigrants and shake their heads. ''I suspect they would be very upset about
people who didn't do it the right way,'' said Mr. Kyl, 63.

His legislation, which would provide for a temporary-worker program without a
path to permanent residency or citizenship, emphasizes that illegal immigrants
should not be rewarded for breaking the law.

Mr. Domenici sees it differently. Both his parents are dead, but his mind
sometimes flies back to his childhood, to memories of his mother raising money
for the local Catholic school, the smell of his father's cigars and that awful
day back in 1943.

Mr. Domenici said he decided to tell his story when the hostile rhetoric about
illegal immigrants started to boil. He said he wanted to remind his fellow
Republicans that the sons and daughters of this century's illegal immigrants
could end up in the Senate one day, too.

''I wasn't trying to impress anybody,'' he said of his story. ''I think it just
puts a little heart and a little soul into this.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: PETE V. DOMENICI of New Mexico says his mother, foreground, was
taken away by the authorities in 1943 when they discovered she was an illegal
immigrant from Italy. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
MEL MARTINEZ, the Florida senator, fled Cuba in 1962, at age 15. Here, he is
seen on the top bunk, with other refugees waiting to be assigned to foster
families in Florida. (Photo Courtesy of Mel Martinez)
 ARLEN SPECTER, the Pennsylvania senator, with a photograph of his father. Mr.
Specter's parents came to the United States from Russia in the early 1900's.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrant Worry

BYLINE: By David Rieff.

David Rieff, a contributing writer, is the author, most recently, of ''At the
Point of a Gun: Democratic Dreams and Armed Intervention.''

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 11-06-05; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1010 words


The issue of immigration finally seems to have achieved critical mass. Open
borders, closed borders; sovereignty versus globalization; even that cruelest of
questions, the ''valuable'' immigrant versus the immigrant who is likely to be a
burden: all of these topics are now on the table. Of course, Americans have been
concerned about immigration on and off for decades in some parts of the country,
especially Florida and the states bordering Mexico. And yet for all the efforts
of figures like Pat Buchanan or Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of
Colorado, it is only recently that large numbers of Americans have come to
believe that illegal immigration is as important a matter as abortion or taxes.

In part, this is because of the fallout of 9/11. In part, it is because of a
generalized belief that the country is being flooded by immigrants -- an
impression that is hardly false, since the United States has a higher proportion
of foreign-born residents than at any time since the 1930's. It is probably also
because of the fact that immigrants are now spread throughout most of the
country, instead of largely remaining in the great urban centers like New York,
Los Angeles and Chicago.

On the political right, the current disenchantment with the Bush administration
owes much to the perception that the president is more committed to legalizing
guest workers than to stemming the flow of illegal immigrants. That America's
borders have become more porous under the watch of an administration whose
proudest boast is its commitment to national security is an outrage to many
Americans, especially Republicans. The G.O.P. pollster Frank Luntz said recently
that when he brings the issue up in focus groups, ''you can't shut people up.''

Such a pervasive sense of being engulfed by illegal aliens has also been
afflicting Europe. When Dutch voters rejected the E.U. Constitution this spring,
many commentators understood their decision as a protest in part against the
ever-growing number of immigrants in their midst. And when hundreds of would-be
immigrants from sub-Saharan Africa rushed the barbed-wire fences that separate
the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco, the crisis eclipsed
every other issue in Spain and forced the Socialist government of Jos? Luis
Rodr?guez Zapatero to re-evaluate its relatively pro-immigration policies.

Supporters of immigration and its foes tend to insist that the issue is simple.
American critics of open borders speak in terms of national sovereignty and
cultural cohesion. The ideal of the melting pot, they insist, has become
obsolete in an age marked by the anti-assimilationist doctrines of
multiculturalism and the hard facts of globalization. If the United States is to
retain its cultural identity, the argument goes, it cannot accept everyone who
wants to come here. And on one level, this is simply a statement of fact. A
recent poll showed that more than 40 percent of Mexicans said they would move to
the United States if given the opportunity -- that is, some 42 million people.
And Mexico is doing better economically than many Central and South American
countries.

Pro-immigration activists, for their part, speak in terms of globalization and
justice. Globalization, they argue, cannot mean the free movement of capital and
of middle-class professionals alone (American bankers in Hong Kong, French
software designers in Silicon Valley). Like it or not, it also implies the free
movement of peoples. In addition, without immigrants the populations of
developed countries would either be stagnant (as is more or less the case in the
U.S.) or moving into decline, as in Japan and much of Europe. Rich societies
need laborers to do jobs that native-born people are no longer willing to do,
and they need skilled immigrants to make up for shortfalls of nurses, doctors,
engineers and other professionals.

In a sense, the debate boils down to culture and politics versus economics. That
is probably why it is business, far more than the liberal left in the U.S. and
Europe, that has been the great champion of less restrictive immigration
policies. The problem is that even though politicians and businessmen refer to
the new immigrants as ''guest workers'' (the term Europeans used in the 50's and
the Bush administration is using today), they are here to stay. And popular
discomfort with this reality is not xenophobia alone. A society that grants
substantial rights to its citizens may be less willing to accord those rights to
strangers.

Some years ago, in an effort to counter a rising anti-immigrant,
anti-asylum-seeker mood, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees initiated a campaign with a simple slogan: ''Einstein Was a Refugee.''
The campaign called attention to the undeniable fact that the new wave of
immigration was bringing the best and the brightest of the poor world to Western
Europe, Australia and the United States. If there was a problem in all this, it
was that the brain drain of talented professionals from Africa and Latin America
was stripping the ''sender'' countries of essential citizens. In other words,
the ''value'' in the exchange was all to the benefit of the rich world and the
detriment of the poor world.

But can we measure the ''value'' of an individual? Should we? Ultimately, the
immigration debate is also an ethical debate, and as such, it raises hard
questions that cannot be answered by appeals to economic calculation, human
rights legislation or sentiments of nationalism alone. Difficult as it may be to
think in terms of ''valuable'' versus ''valueless'' immigrants, or to
distinguish between the free circulation of information and the free circulation
of individuals, the growing political clamor over immigration will force us to
think hard about such questions, and perhaps sooner than we expect.


  Immigrants' assessment of conditions in the U.S. versus those in their country
of origin.

Source: NPR/Kaiser/Kennedy School: Immigration Survey, May 27 to Aug. 2, 2004.
(Chart by 5W Infographic.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Ad van Denderen
 Agence Vu)Chart: ''A NEW LIFE''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush, Touring the Border, Puts Emphasis on Enforcement

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 29


President Bush traveled on Tuesday to El Paso, at the front lines of the fight
to deter illegal immigration, where he took a tour along the Rio Grande to
emphasize his message that he intends to strengthen the border.

His remarks continued a pronounced shift from his early emphasis on ensuring a
way for businesses to employ illegal immigrants temporarily, to a focus on
keeping illegal immigrants out.

''We've got a comprehensive strategy that says we're going to enforce this
border,'' Mr. Bush said, answering questions from reporters before flying on to
Denver. ''We're going to prevent people from coming here in the first place.''

The president's change in emphasis has been driven by the politics of the issue
as Congress prepares to take up legislation addressing border security and
immigration. Conservatives in his own party are far more focused on deterring
the flow of migrants over the border than on providing a stable labor pool for
businesses.

Many Republicans view with suspicion, if not outright opposition, what was
initially the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's policy: a guest worker program granting
illegal immigrants who are already in the United States a right to work legally
for a specified number of years, but then requiring them to return home.

Those critics of the plan have said it comes too close to granting amnesty to
lawbreakers. Other experts on immigration say it would be unfeasible, arguing
that few of the workers would agree to leave the United States voluntarily when
their legal status ended and that without the lure of legal permanent residency
or citizenship, they would not sign up for the program in the first place.

On Tuesday, Mr. Bush said again that he wanted any plan passed by Congress to
include the guest worker program. He brought it up both in El Paso and in a
later appearance here at a fund-raiser for Representative Marilyn Musgrave,
Republican of Colorado. In a recent statement of principles for overhauling
immigration, Ms. Musgrave emphasized improving border security. She made no
mention of a guest worker program but said she would oppose any amnesty
provisions.

Mr. Bush sought to allay that concern.

''Amnesty would say to other illegal aliens, 'Come, and you can come into
America and get citizenship automatically,' '' Mr. Bush said at the fund-raiser,
which brought in more than $450,000 for Ms. Musgrave. ''No, I'm for a bill that
strengthens our border by providing people with a tamper-proof identity card to
let them work in America for jobs Americans won't do, on a temporary basis, and
then go back to their country.''

Democrats said Mr. Bush had delayed too long in addressing the problem.

''It is time for President Bush to resist those on the right who rely on fear
tactics to prevent our broken system from being fixed,'' said Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''As business leaders and experts
understand, true immigration reform must be realistic and comprehensive,
strengthening our security while bringing an underground economy above ground.''



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Border Patrol officer along the Mexican border's El Paso
sector, which President Bush visited yesterday. (Photo by Evan Vucci/Associated
Press)
 ''We've got a comprehensive strategy that says we're going to enforce this
border,'' the president said after his tour along the Rio Grande. (Photo by
Mandel Ngan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 14, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Border Killing Inflames Mexican Anger at U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1382 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Jan. 12


Guillermo Martinez could see the promised land of Southern California from the
cramped three-bedroom house he shared here with his mother, his wife and two
small children.

The smooth, dry hills of San Diego County lay just beyond the slum where he
lived, past the cinder block shacks, the garbage-strewn streets and rusted-out
cars, past the corrugated steel fence that marks the border, and past the taller
metal-columned fence put up in the 1990's to stop people like him from crossing.

It was in the no man's land between the fences that he was fatally shot by a
United States border patrol agent just after dark on Dec. 30. His family says he
was trying to get to Fresno, Calif., to take a job picking fruit. Investigators
on each side, however, say he might have been trying to smuggle migrants across.

''My boy did nothing, nothing, nothing for them to shoot him,'' said his mother,
Ofelia Rodriguez. ''He was trying to cross to take care of his children.''

Whatever his reasons for sneaking over the border, the shooting of Mr. Martinez,
20, has fanned the flames of anger in Mexico over what many here see as an
increasingly hard line in the United States against illegal immigrants. His
death has become a rallying point for politicians of all stripes, who have
condemned the shooting as a racist violation of human rights.

Mr. Martinez was killed two weeks after the House of Representatives passed a
bill that, among other provisions, would build an additional 700 miles of tall
double fences like the one here to stop illegal immigrants.

The proposed ''frontier wall,'' as the barrier is called here, and Mr.
Martinez's death have become symbols of what many Mexicans see as the
deteriorating relationship between the countries and a rising tide of xenophobia
in the United States.

The wall has prompted street protests in the capital and howls of criticism from
Mexican politicians and editorialists, many of whom have likened the proposal to
the Berlin Wall. Two Catholic bishops, in a statement, called the proposal
''absurd, shameful and intolerable'' and ''an aspirin against cancer.''

President Vicente Fox has called the wall ''a disgrace,'' and a ''very bad
sign'' that ''does not befit a country that prides itself on being democratic.''
He took the unusual step of ordering his government to investigate the Martinez
shooting and sent a diplomatic note to Washington demanding a full
investigation.

Human rights advocates say that, in addition to Mr. Martinez, at least four
migrants have died in the last 15 months in run-ins with Border Patrol agents.
One man was fatally shot Oct. 4 near Otay Mesa as he struggled over a gun with
an agent who was trying to arrest him. Three others drowned running away from
the Border Patrol agents.

In a sign of increasing tensions, it has become more common in the past year for
migrants to throw rocks at the agents trying to corral them. In the last two
weeks, United States border patrol agents have come under fire twice near the
Veterans International Bridge over the Rio Grande between Matamoros and
Brownsville, Tex. No one was injured.

The outrage in Mexico over the House bill and the shooting death reflects a
difference in how people on each side view the border. Conservatives in the
United States see the 2,000-mile long frontier as a security problem, a leaky
sieve through which all manner of evils can pass: drug smugglers, petty
criminals and, possibly, terrorists.

''It's a national security issue,'' said Representative Duncan Hunter, a San
Diego Republican who sponsored the fence amendment. ''The world understands that
if you want to get into this country illegally, you come across the land border
with Mexico. You have to know who's coming into the country.''

Other supporters of the measure say more fences are needed near urban areas to
prevent crime and because Mexican law enforcement does nothing to stop people
from crossing illegally. The fence in San Diego, a 14-mile pilot project started
in 1994, has substantially reduced not only the smuggling of people and drugs,
but crime in general in that region, its supporters say.

''Mexico has not been serious about helping us control our border,'' said
Representative Dan Lungren, a Republican from Long Beach, Calif., who supports
the fences. ''So this griping about what we are doing seems to be a little
fatuous.''

Not everyone in the United States supports building fences. Big-city Democrats,
Catholic leaders, advocates for immigrants and civil-rights groups have all
criticized the idea. Even some Republicans with large Hispanic constituencies,
among them Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, oppose it. Mr. Perry said recently that
more fences would not be as effective as increased spending for law enforcement
agencies on the border.

Mexicans, rich and poor, see a relatively porous border as an essential part of
their economy. It is lost on no one in power here that migration relieves Mexico
of hundreds of thousands of its poor and unemployed every year, while bringing
in more income. Migrants send about $20 billion a year home to relatives.

At the same time, the view is widely held in Mexico that the United States could
not function without cheap Mexican labor, and that efforts to more tightly
regulate the flow of migrants are hypocritical and racist. Mexican politicians
regularly depict the migrants as heroes, people seeking a better life and
braving terrible conditions to get it.

The frustration is also compounded by the failure of the Bush administration to
push through a guest worker bill that would, in essence, legalize the status of
millions of illegal Mexicans immigrants working in the United States. On
Wednesday, President Bush expressed support for the fence, saying it would slow
the flow of migrants and illegal drugs.

The Fox administration has argued that a guest worker law would do more to
regulate the flow of immigrants than building more walls.

Mr. Martinez was typical of many of the 1.2 million migrants the Border Patrol
intercepts every year -- poor, with no job prospects. His mother had 18
children, 9 of whom died as infants. Of the surviving children, he was the
youngest.

His father died when he was a baby. Like his siblings, he never got more than a
sixth-grade education. He married at 17 and had two children before he was 20.

Three years ago, he moved with his mother and children to Tijuana, where he made
a living washing cars and doing small construction jobs, his family said. He
also tried to enter the United States to find work.

Border Patrol officials have said that Mr. Martinez may have also worked as a
pollero, someone immigrants paid to guide them across the border. He was
arrested and deported at least 12 times trying to cross the border, though he
was never charged with smuggling, they said.

His brother Agustin Martinez, 33, was convicted of smuggling migrants in the
United States and served time, authorities said. In an interview, Agustin said
he was with Guillermo at the time of the shooting, but denied they were guiding
others.

He said at least three agents spotted them about 7:30 p.m. as they tried to
cross the border. One fired a shot at the brothers as they ran away. The shot
hit Guillermo Martinez in the back and left his body through his chest. He died
the next day at Cruz Roja Hospital in Tijuana.

Lt. Kevin Rooney, a homicide investigator in the San Diego Police Department,
has pieced together a different account from interviews with the agent and other
sources. He said one agent, who has been identified as Fausto Campos, was
guarding a post along the second fence when he received a report of people
crossing about 100yards to the east.

When he arrived there in his car, he saw a man with a ladder in the zone between
the fences, Lieutenant Rooney said. The agent, who had been on the force eight
years, opened a gate, drove his car through, then spotted the man running toward
the open gate. The agent jumped out to cut the man off.

The man scooped rocks from the ground and threw them, Lieutenant Rooney said. As
a rock passed his head, the agent fired his pistol once at the man, who grabbed
his arm, turned and sprinted out of sight along the first fence.

''It is a one-on-one confrontation,'' Lieutenant Rooney said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A wake earlier this month in Tijuana for Guillermo Martinez, 20,
whose shooting by Border Patrol agents has become a rallying cry for Mexicans
who have condemned the killing as racist and a violation of human rights. (Photo
by David Maung/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Crossing the Border

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 139 words



To the Editor:

In your article about Mexican women who immigrate to the United States (''More
and More, Women Risk All to Enter U.S.,'' front page, Jan. 10), you do not
mention that there are important cultural reasons they cross the border, not
just financial ones.

Poor Mexican women are frequently subject to early ''marriages'' that result in
desertion or physical abuse. Wives may not have control of family finances and
bear the burden of housework and child-rearing.

America offers the hope that they can control their own destinies and make a
better future for their children. And thankfully, even though these women are
illegal immigrants, they are entitled to law enforcement protection in the event
of domestic abuse.

Ellen G. Rafshoon
Atlanta, Jan. 10, 2006

The writer is a visiting lecturer in history, Georgia State University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawyers Protest Deportation of Illegal Immigrants to Haiti

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 747 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19


Dozens of lawyers around the country joined forces on Thursday to protest the
Department of Homeland Security's decision to continue deporting illegal
immigrants to Haiti, an island nation plagued by political instability, violence
and human rights violations.

The lawyers filed motions in dozens of cases, asking immigration judges to stop
the deportations because their clients' lives may be threatened. The State
Department has warned Americans against traveling to Haiti, citing the lack of
an effective police force and the presence of armed gangs engaged in kidnappings
and violent crime.

The lawyers, who held news conferences in Miami, New York, Boston and
Philadelphia, said they were acting because homeland security officials had not
given Haitians temporary protected status, which temporarily prevents the
deportation of immigrants who cannot return to their native countries because of
armed conflict, natural disasters or other extraordinary conditions.

Immigrants from Burundi, El Salvador, Honduras, Liberia, Nicaragua, Somalia and
Sudan have temporary protected status. The immigration lawyers involved in
Thursday's protest said the situation in Haiti had been far worse than in those
three Central American countries since a violent uprising and intense pressure
by the United States forced President Jean-Bertrand Aristide from power in 2004.

The United Nations says it has documented widespread cases of unlawful arrests
and has received credible reports of police involvement in executions and
banditry. The State Department says more than 25 Americans were kidnapped in
Haiti last year, and local authorities say that over Christmas, kidnappings
peaked to as many as 12 a day. Travel is so hazardous in Port-au-Prince, the
capital, that American Embassy personnel have been barred from leaving their
homes at night. More than 10 United Nations soldiers have been killed, officials
say.

The lawyers want immigration judges to close the deportation cases until the
situation in Haiti improves. Several lawyers said the legal strategy might not
succeed on a broad scale because judges typically require assent from the
government's lawyers before closing a case. But advocates for Haitian immigrants
said they were trying to send the Bush administration a message and hoped that
some judges would take action, even if it meant simply delaying decisions in
deportation cases until Haiti stabilizes.

''I don't think it makes sense for the United States to send people back to a
country where such devastating human rights violations are occurring,'' said
Paromita Shah, associate director of the National Immigration Project in Boston.
''Those Haitian deportees face grave risk to their lives, and that's not
acceptable.''

Candace Jean, a Miami immigration lawyer, said her clients were terrified of
what they would experience when they returned to Haiti.

''They're horrified,'' Ms. Jean said. ''Many are going into hiding.''

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said the
decision to grant temporary protected status was made in consultation with the
State Department. Mr. Strassberger noted that many Haitian-Americans felt safe
enough to travel to Haiti and that conditions in the country varied from place
to place.

The State Department, which ordered the departure of non-emergency personnel and
family members of embassy officials in Haiti last May, lifted the order several
months later. But embassy officials have been told that dependents under 21 are
still not permitted to travel to or remain in Haiti, the department said.

''It's a tough decision,'' Mr. Strassberger said. ''The country itself is in a
desperate situation. But at this point the United States government feels that
the situation can be corrected by providing more aid as opposed to providing
temporary protected status.''

Karline St. Louis of Miami is hoping that officials will change their minds. Her
husband, Kevin, who is being represented by Ms. Jean, expects to be deported any
day.

''I'm praying that something will change,'' said Ms. St. Louis, 27, who has a
4-year-old son. ''There's a lot of kidnapping in Haiti, a lot of killings going
on. It is very scary.''

Maggy Duteau, an immigration lawyer in New York, said she could not understand
why Salvadorans, Nicaraguans and Hondurans would be granted temporary protected
status while Haitians would not.

''How bad does it have to get before something is done?'' Ms. Duteau asked.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karline St. Louis, shown with her son, Rayven, is asking for the
release of her husband, Kevin St. Louis, who is at risk of deportation to Haiti.
(Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Census Is Set to Include Illegal Immigrants, Too

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF: GREENPORT;
Pg. 7

LENGTH: 243 words


David Kapell, the mayor of the Village of Greenport, said last Monday that he
planned to take a census of village residents, including illegal immigrants, as
a first step toward providing services the undocumented population in Greenport
might need.

Mr. Kapell called the 2000 federal census inadequate because it did not count
illegal immigrants or part-time residents, who make up a fast-growing part of
the village's population. The United States census put the village population at
2,048.

''To plan effectively for the future, we need an accurate census that is
inclusive, immigration blind, and counts all of us, whether we live here full or
part time,'' Mr. Kapell said.

A true census, he added, would show that families of modest means are in danger
of being pushed out of the village as more homes are converted to second homes
and housing prices continue to rise. He said he hoped that an accurate census
could help the village get financing for more affordable housing.

Mr. Kapell said that he had not decided whether village workers or volunteers
would conduct the census, but that he would raise private money to pay for it.

Many of the undocumented immigrants in Greenport ''are living without rights in
a separate, largely invisible world within our own,'' he said. ''Some call this
the 'Hispanic problem.' I see not a problem, but a golden opportunity to build
on our efforts to protect Greenport as a working-class village.''    VIVIAN S.
TOY

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 30, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

One State's Driving Certificates Go to Others' Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: KNOXVILLE, Tenn., Jan. 29


Illegal immigrants are paying hundreds of dollars on the black market and
traveling hundreds of miles to get one of Tennessee's driving certificates.

Tennessee has issued 51,000 certificates since July 2004, when it became the
first state to offer them to illegal immigrants who show proof of state
residence. But not every one has gone to someone living here.

Two major federal arrests in recent months exposed shuttles carrying South and
Central American immigrants from as far away as New Jersey to state licensing
centers in Knoxville, where they got certificates using fake residency papers.

Last week, prosecutors say, a third sweep revealed a conspiracy in which state
license examiners in Murfreesboro, south of Nashville, accepted bribes to
provide illegal immigrants with driver's licenses or certificates without
testing.

''We have seen individuals coming to Tennessee to take advantage of the driver's
certificate program because they are easy to obtain,'' said Russ Dedrick, an
acting United States attorney.

The disclosures come as Tennessee's certificate system is being studied as a
possible model for illegal immigrants under a program recently enacted by
Congress that will set a national standard for driver's licenses by 2008.

Although the words ''not valid for identification'' appear in bold red letters
on the face of the wallet-size certificates, Mr. Dedrick said that banks
accepted them as legal ID and that they could ''easily be passed off for other
types of identification documents.''

Mike Whalen, a lawyer who represents a woman accused of transporting as many as
100 immigrants from New Jersey to Knoxville for certificates, said the
government was making too much of the problem. His client represented workers,
not terrorists, Mr. Whalen said.

''Somebody went through the roof and said, 'Remember 9/11 -- every one had
driver's licenses,' '' he said. ''Well, none of these Mexican immigrants are in
flight school anywhere. There is a difference.''

That argument carries little weight in law enforcement circles.

The certificate law ''just kind of opened up a floodgate of everyone wanting to
come here to get some sort of identification,'' said Sheriff Tim Hutchison of
Knox County, whose officers discovered that 58 illegal immigrants had used the
same Knoxville address to get certificates.

Tennessee started granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, without a
Social Security number requirement, in early 2001. More than 180,000 received
licenses before fears about another attack like those on Sept. 11, 2001, set in.
The driving certificates were created in 2004 to satisfy domestic security
concerns while allowing illegal immigrants to drive with certified proficiency.

Applicants must now provide two documents, like utility bills or a lease, to
show they live in Tennessee, and a Social Security number, or a sworn affidavit
if there is none. They must also pass an eye examination, a driving rules test
and a road test.

Some say the problem is not the law, but the enforcement.

Joan Friedland, a lawyer with the National Immigration Law Center in Washington,
said the key was ''rigorous proof of state residence.''

Sheriff Hutchison's officers searched the Internet to determine that immigrants
were using fake residences, and then spent months monitoring the suspects'
movements before they were arrested.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Issue Plays Out in Arizona Education Fight

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Jan. 31


Arizona's Democratic governor and its Republican-controlled Legislature are
locked in an election-year stalemate over the teaching of English and how much
to pay for it.

On the surface, the debate is straightforward: how to help the state's 154,000
public-school children whose native language is other than English -- in almost
all cases it is Spanish -- catch up with their peers, as required by a federal
court order.

But below the surface is the matter that underlies most political debates in
Arizona: illegal immigration, expected to be the marquee issue in the November
elections. While school officials estimate that as many as 75 percent of the
state's non-English-speaking students are American-born citizens, most of their
parents are immigrants, many in this country illegally.

''There is a significant anti-immigrant animus propelling a lot of the sentiment
in the Legislature right now,'' Gov. Janet Napolitano said in an interview.
''They are angry about the taxpayer dollars that are being used to educate
illegal immigrants or the children of illegal immigrants.''

Representative Stephen Tully, the majority leader of the Arizona House, denied
anti-immigrant sentiment.

''Certainly a lot of these kids are in the country illegally, or their parents
are, but that's not the issue,'' Mr. Tully said. ''They're here, and we need
them to learn English.''

The problem instead, he said, is that the governor's proposal lacks any
incentive for the schools to complete the task quickly, since they would be
financed on a per-pupil basis rather than by a block grant.

To meet the requirements of the court order, Ms. Napolitano has proposed
spending $45 million a year to expand English-language instruction in Arizona's
public schools. Beginning Wednesday, the state is being assessed a fine of at
least $500,000 a day until it complies with that order, and the governor,
seeking a kind of down payment on her plan, has asked the court to direct the
proceeds of the fine to English-language immersion programs for schoolchildren.

Mr. Tully and other Republican lawmakers suggest that the governor is using the
court order as an excuse to throw money at a problem that can be solved more
cheaply; they have proposed $14 million. Some Republicans also contend that her
proposal would shortchange non-immigrant Arizonans and encourage immigrants to
cross the border illegally to take advantage of the state's public services.

As part of their negotiating strategy on the legislation, Republicans have
attached riders that would create tax credits for corporations that contribute
to private and parochial schools, a way of subsidizing private-school choice for
parents who do not want to send their children to public schools. The governor
has vetoed the measures three times, saying the tax credits would be excessive.
Her staff has calculated their cost at $50 million a year, though the
Republicans say it would be much less. Ms. Napolitano has proposed a much
smaller program of tax credits that would expire in five years.

Political analysts say the fight is also an effort by Republicans to scuff up
the popular Democratic governor at the onset of the election year. Ms.
Napolitano, who is up for re-election in November and has all but formally
declared her candidacy, is soaring in the polls, and the Republicans have yet to
find a credible candidate to challenge her.

''This whole education fight is clearly a proxy for the immigration debate,''
said Bruce Merrill, a professor at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and
Mass Communication at Arizona State University. ''A lot of people here feel if
you don't build it, they won't come.''

That was the idea behind two ballot measures approved by Arizona voters. One,
Proposition 203, which passed in 2000, essentially outlaws bilingual education
in public schools. It requires classes to be taught in English only, forcing
schools to provide remedial help for non-English speakers.

The other, Proposition 200, approved in 2004, denied some benefits to illegal
immigrants, though the courts have blocked parts of it.

The current financing dispute dates from 1992, when the Arizona Center for Law
in the Public Interest sued on behalf of 100,000 non-English-speaking children
who were receiving no language help in the schools and were lagging in
achievement as a result. In early 2000, a court ruled for the plaintiffs and
ordered the state to come up with a realistic estimate of the costs and to
provide an adequate sum for English-language programs.

The Legislature deadlocked on both the study and the financing, and last year a
federal district judge in Tucson, Raner C. Collins, ordered the state to enact a
workable English Language Learners program, or E.L.L., if it was to avoid fines
beginning at $500,000 a day and escalating to $2 million a day.

Governor Napolitano convened a special session for the Legislature to take up
the measure in January, but she and the lawmakers reached an impasse over the
amount to be spent and the corporate tax credits.

The governor said the issue was not money -- the state is running a $1 billion
surplus -- but rather bad blood between her and the Legislature and a
frustration with the federal government's failure to enforce the nation's
immigration laws. Arizonans, she said, are tired of bearing the cost of what
many consider unchecked illegal immigration.

''But my question is, What do you do with the children who are already here?''
she said. ''You can't take a failed federal immigration policy out on the
children. They are just pawns in this.''

Mr. Tully, the House majority leader, said the impasse had been building since
the governor vetoed Republican bills intended to address the issue last May,
legislation for which, he said, she had signaled support. ''There's just not a
lot of trust there,'' he said.

Tim Hogan, executive director of the group that brought the 1992 lawsuit, said
that while politicians brawled, schoolchildren were being left behind. He said
that tens of thousands of non-English-speaking students had entered Arizona
schools since the suit was filed and that dropout rates were rising because many
of those children did not have a command of English.

''The issue for me is simple,'' Mr. Hogan said. ''Are you going to educate them
in compliance with the law or just kick them to the curb?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A session on English fluency at Westwood Primary School in
Phoenix.
 Leslie Cronk, a second-grade teacher in Phoenix, offering remedial help in
English to a group of pupils whose first language is Spanish. (Photographs by
Mark Peterman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

21 Injured in Border Chase

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Feb. 10


A van carrying suspected illegal immigrants crashed near the border with Mexico
on Friday as it was being chased by the Border Patrol, injuring 21 people, 8
critically.

Twenty-eight people were in the van when it flipped while trying to avoid a
strip of spikes agents had placed in its path. Eight people suffered
life-threatening injuries, said Maurice Luque, a spokesman for the San Diego
Fire-Rescue Department.

The Border Patrol said agents stopped two other vans, taking about 60 people
into custody.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dobbs's Outspokenness Draws Fans and Fire

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words


Night after night, Lou Dobbs slides into his anchor chair, turns to the camera
and becomes the sober and steady face of CNN. At 60, he has more than three
decades of experience, silvering hair and a voice that rumbles with authority.
And for most of his program, he looks and feels like a traditional,
nothing-but-the-news television host.

Then the topic turns to illegal immigration, and the sober newsman starts
breathing fire.

Mr. Dobbs batters the Bush administration for doing too little to stop millions
of migrants from slipping across the border with Mexico. He slams businesses and
advocacy groups for helping illegal aliens thrive here. He hails the beleaguered
officials who struggle to enforce immigration laws. As his scorching
commentaries spill across the nation's television screens, first-time viewers
might be forgiven for rubbing their eyes in wonder.

Here is Mr. Dobbs, discussing the Roman Catholic Church's opposition to
legislation that would make it a federal crime to assist illegal immigrants:
''Tonight, the effort to secure this nation's borders has a new opponent. It is
the Catholic Church.''

Here he is on the Minutemen, the civilians labeled ''vigilantes'' by their
critics for patrolling the border -- sometimes armed -- in search of illegal
immigrants: ''I support the Minuteman Project and the fine Americans who make it
up in all they've accomplished, fully, relentlessly and proudly.''

And here he is criticizing the White House: ''How about a congressional
investigation of this administration that refuses to enforce either immigration
laws or border security, period?''

Mr. Dobbs has been speaking his mind more frequently about various subjects --
including the outsourcing of American jobs -- since he ended his long-running
business program ''Moneyline'' and started his general-news program, ''Lou Dobbs
Tonight,'' in 2003. But he is touching particularly sensitive nerves these days
as the debate over immigration legislation, currently under consideration in
Congress, heats up around the country.

Many conservatives praise him for giving a rare national platform to people who
fear that illegal immigrants are taking jobs from Americans, fueling violent
crime and threatening national security. Critics deride him as anti-immigrant,
racist and biased, charges he fiercely denies. One Democratic congressman was so
incensed that he stood up on the House floor last year to denounce Mr. Dobbs's
continuing series ''Broken Borders'' as a ''broken record.''

But Mr. Dobbs remains unapologetic. He says he has no interest in assuming the
conventional role of the anchor who reports the news dispassionately. His
mission, he says, is to tell American viewers the truth, no matter how
uncomfortable or controversial.

''There's nothing fair and balanced about me,'' said Mr. Dobbs, tweaking his Fox
News rivals' slogan, as he settled into his office overlooking Central Park one
recent afternoon. ''Because there's nothing fair and balanced about the truth.
'He says, she says' journalism is a monstrous cop-out.''

''I happen to believe strongly and passionately that we are a nation of
immigrants,'' he added. ''But only fools with an agenda can defend illegal
immigration.''

He acknowledges that his criticism of illegal immigration has caused
consternation, even among some CNN journalists. But over the last two and a half
years, his ratings have surged. ''Lou Dobbs Tonight'' drew 631,000 viewers on an
average night in 2005, a 28 percent jump from 2003, when it started, according
to Nielsen Media Research. (''Special Report With Brit Hume,'' the Fox newscast
that runs against Mr. Dobbs on weeknights from 6 to 7, has more than twice as
many viewers.)

Jonathan Klein, the president of CNN's domestic networks, said CNN had been
encouraging anchors and journalists to bring more personality to the news.

''You're seeing the passions of our journalists show up on television rather
than being left on the newsroom floor,'' Mr. Klein said.

''People have come to expect Lou Dobbs to hold opinions about things,'' he
added. ''And from an audience perspective, everything Lou is doing is working.''
CNN officials emphasize that Mr. Dobbs, a lifelong Republican, hammers targets
across the political spectrum, criticizing Republicans and business executives
who support transferring jobs abroad as well as those who hope to legalize
millions of illegal immigrants.

But by repeatedly presenting his forceful opinions on illegal immigration and
other subjects -- on ''Moneyline'' he criticized the Justice Department for
indicting the accounting firm Arthur Andersen in the Enron scandal -- Mr. Dobbs
has stepped squarely into the debate over whether cable news anchors are
breaching the bright line that has traditionally separated commentary from news.

''What Dobbs is doing falls in the sort of the tradition of reportorial
journalistic advocacy,'' said Tom Rosenstiel, the director of the Project for
Excellence in Journalism. ''It may not be straight reporting in the classical
sense, but it certainly falls in the tradition of point-of-view journalism.''

Other analysts say they are concerned that cable executives continue to bill
such programs as traditional newscasts without flatly and clearly stating that
the rules of the game have changed. Ted Koppel, the former host of ABC's
''Nightline,'' says that anchors and reporters who blend commentary and news
should not describe themselves as journalists. ''Journalism is an effort, as
best you can, to establish the fact as dispassionately as you can,'' said Mr.
Koppel, an occasional op-ed columnist for The New York Times. ''The moment you
start inserting your own passions, in whatever direction, it ceases to be
journalism.''

But for the fans of Mr. Dobbs's segments on illegal immigration, it is precisely
his melding of reporting and forthright opinion that is such a powerful draw.
''People across the country tune in to Lou Dobbs because they know their views
on immigration will be presented,'' said Rosemary Jenks, director of
governmental relations at NumbersUSA, a policy group that favors reducing
immigration. ''He is a hero to a lot of people.''

Mr. Dobbs's critics, who sometimes appear on his program, acknowledge that he
explores the issue of immigration more deeply than any other anchor on
television. But, they complain, he fails to point out that the overwhelming
majority of illegal immigrants are hard-working people who take jobs that
Americans don't want.

Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, became so frustrated
with the program that he invited Mr. Dobbs to Washington in 2004 to hear the
concerns of about 12 members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. He said Mr.
Dobbs listened politely, but his program remained the same.

It was Mr. Gutierrez who denounced the program on the House floor last year.
''He says, 'I'm fair,' but then he portrays immigrants as purely law breakers
and as a threat to our national security,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''Meanwhile, he
praises other lawbreakers -- such as the vigilantes in the Minutemen. And I
watch this, and I can't comprehend it.''

Mr. Dobbs, who was born in Texas and grew up in Idaho, says he has worked on
farms alongside migrant workers, picking beans, hauling potatoes and bailing
hay. He says he appreciates the contributions that immigrants have made to this
country, though he refuses to discuss his own immigrant heritage.

''One of the things I hate is hyphenated Americans,'' Mr. Dobbs said testily
when a reporter tried to draw him out about his family's history. ''I don't give
a damn about all of that. We're just Americans.''

Mr. Dobbs said he tried to include the voices of ''people who would be ignored''
because, in his view, too many reporters are too politically correct to give
critics of illegal immigration a fair hearing. ''Their voices have been
denied,'' he said of many of his guests and viewers.

Mr. Dobbs, who owns a horse farm in New Jersey, says he has never hired an
illegal alien. And as for offering a more nuanced portrayal of illegal
immigrants on his program, he says he has no interest in treading that
territory.

Instead, he plans to continue exposing what he describes as the collusion
between the Bush administration, business executives and the Mexican government
to disregard immigration laws so as to ensure that America's businesses have a
steady stream of cheap labor and Mexico has an outlet for its poor.

''I know firsthand from my own experience that migrant workers are good
people,'' Mr. Dobbs said. ''That isn't the issue. We are a nation of immigrants,
but we are also a nation of laws. If we fail as a nation of laws, the rest
doesn't make one bit of difference.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Speaking his mind on illegal immigration: CNN's Lou Dobbs.
(Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Lou Dobbs at his office at the Time Warner Center. ''There's nothing fair and
balanced about the truth,'' he says. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York
Times)(pg. E4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Benefit Is Halted

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Feb. 24


Tennessee suspended the issuing of driving certificates to illegal immigrants on
Friday after investigators found that groups were shuttling in immigrants from
as far as New Jersey to take advantage of the program.

The program could be eliminated after a review, said the state safety
commissioner, Gerald Nicely.

A major problem, Mr. Nicely said, was the variety of documents, like utility
bills and leases, that people could use to prove residence in Tennessee.
Employees of the affected companies were overwhelmed trying to verify the
documents, he said.

A dozen people pleaded guilty after federal investigations uncovered the
shuttling of illegal immigrants from Central America to Tennessee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

America's Heritage And Day Laborers

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 234 words



To the Editor:

Having moved to Putnam County three years ago, I was dismayed to learn of the
deep-seated hostility toward the Guatemalan immigrants in Brewster (''In
Brewster, a Backlash Against Day Laborers,'' Feb. 5).

While I agree that the protection of our children must be paramount, and I also
understand how merchants might be upset if crowds congregate outside their
premises, these issues do not justify the arrest of these hard-working people. I
am sure that if they had been Irish immigrants or Italian immigrants playing
soccer, there would have been no arrests.

As the daughter of an Irish immigrant, I am glad that my parents raised me to
never forget where I came from and to never close the door behind me. It might
interest the residents of Brewster to know that many of the Irish who immigrated
to this country years ago were undocumented, including some who are now leaders
in communities across America. I am sure that many of the residents of Brewster
have parents or grandparents who immigrated to the United States.

Since it is obvious that local businesses and residents are hiring many
undocumented workers at relatively low costs to work on various construction
projects and other jobs, perhaps Putnam County or Brewster's leadership can come
up with a plan for building a site where workers can congregate away from the
main thoroughfares and schools.

Judy A. Farrell
Cold Spring

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 11, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Sweep Of Gang Members

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 129 words


Nearly 400 gang members have been arrested in 24 states and the District of
Columbia in the past two weeks as part of a yearlong operation against gangs
with members who are illegal immigrants, the Homeland Security Department said.
The arrests bring to 2,388 the number of gang members apprehended through the
operation, which combines local law enforcement with immigration enforcement.
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said more than 260 of those
arrested in the new sweep had committed crimes like rape, murder and assault and
had taken drugs and weapons into neighborhoods. Of those arrested in the past
year, 533 were charged with crimes and 1,855 with immigration violations.
Illegal immigrants will be deported after serving any sentences, officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rift on Immigration Widens for Conservatives and Cardinals

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1095 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE fierce battle over the future of America's immigration system is spilling
from Capitol Hill onto the airwaves, as conservatives accuse Democrats, human
rights groups and even some labor unions of trying to stymie Republican efforts
to stem the tide of illegal immigration.

But in recent weeks, some commentators and prominent Republicans have turned
their swords against another formidable foe in their battle to tighten the
borders: the Roman Catholic Church.

Immigration has long caused friction between the church, with its advocacy for
migrants, and conservatives, who want to slow illegal crossings over the Mexican
border. But as Congress wrestles with the fate of the nation's 11 million
illegal immigrants, that tension has escalated into a sharp war of words,
highlighting the divide among some Republicans and Catholics who have fought
side by side on other issues like abortion and same-sex marriage.

In December, after the Republican-controlled House of Representatives passed a
tough border security bill that, among other things, would make it a crime to
assist illegal immigrants, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops
assailed it as extremely punitive and called on its flock to oppose it. Church
officials have sent lobbyists to Congress and this month parishes sent members
to rallies in Chicago and Washington to push for legislation that would legalize
undocumented immigrants and put them on the path to citizenship.

Some Republicans are firing back.

In February, Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who opposes
illegal immigration, took issue with Catholic bishops, among other religious
leaders, ''for invoking God when arguing for a blanket amnesty'' for illegal
immigrants. This month, two powerful Republican representatives, Peter King of
New York and F. James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, the co-sponsors of the border
security bill, criticized the church leadership on ''The O'Reilly Factor'' on
Fox News Channel, particularly Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles, who has
said he would instruct his priests and parishioners to defy the legislation if
it ever became law.

Meanwhile, cable news commentators Tucker Carlson and Lou Dobbs have questioned
whether the church should maintain its tax-exempt status, given its political
activism on immigration. And in an interview, Mr. King accused church leaders of
''committing the sin of hypocrisy'' in their campaign to sway Congress and
Catholic voters.

''This is the left wing of the Catholic Church -- these are the frustrated
social workers,'' said Mr. King, who described himself as a practicing Catholic.
''They're giving an incentive for more illegals to come here. I don't think it's
right.''

In fact, the Catholic leadership is united on this issue, and includes several
bishops who strongly suggested in 2004 that Catholics should vote for President
Bush because of his opposition to abortion. Both sides say they will continue to
work together on those campaigns. But the pointed attacks by some Republicans
are notable, given that the party has worked hard to woo Catholic voters in
recent years. Some analysts warn that such criticism of the church and of
immigrants may alienate a critical voting bloc of largely immigrant origins. But
others point out that, unlike their clergy, most white, non-Hispanic Catholics
remain deeply divided over immigration, and a battle seems to be emerging for
their hearts and minds.

There are political implications. In preparation for the 2004 presidential
election, the Bush administration cultivated church leaders, organized more than
50,000 volunteers and hired staff members to reach out to Catholic voters. The
goal was to break the traditional allegiance to the Democratic Party, an
affiliation that began to crumble with Ronald Reagan.

The campaign bore fruit: In 2004, a majority of Catholics voted for a Republican
presidential candidate for the first time in 16 years.

But some analysts warn that Republicans need to tread carefully when they
criticize the church and illegal immigrants. ''The danger of this situation
politically is that you'll have an entire season in which Republican politicians
are saying critical things about the Catholic hierarchy,'' said Deal Hudson, the
Republican architect of the effort to court Catholic voters in 2004. ''That's
not going to be helpful in terms of keeping the coalition together.''

But the Rev. Richard John Neuhaus, editor of First Things, a conservative
journal about religion and public life, said he doubted that the disagreement
would have much impact on Catholics. He said the sexual abuse scandals had
already weakened the credibility of the church leadership in the minds of some
Catholics.

Republicans and the Catholic clergy have differed before on other issues -- like
the war in Iraq and the death penalty -- without deeply affecting parishioners.
And Mr. Neuhaus noted that while Catholics often connect deeply with their
immigrant history, some make clear distinctions between their parents and
grandparents and the more recent arrivals from Latin America.

''My hunch is that if you remove from the bracket the approximately one-third of
the Catholic population that is Hispanic, that probably most other Catholics
would divide on this questions pretty much as the general population does,''
Father Neuhaus said.

The Catholic leaders are keenly aware of the divisions among the faithful on
this issue. Seventy of the 197 Catholic dioceses have formally committed to the
immigration campaign, and officials are working hard to recruit the others.

Leo Anchondo, who directs the immigrant campaign on behalf of the Catholic
Conference of Bishops, said the cardinals and bishops were not surprised there
was a backlash against such efforts.

''Immigration has unfortunately become a very controversial topic,'' he said.

But Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick of Washington said he and other leaders
decided they could not stay silent after witnessing the hardships endured by
illegal immigrants, particularly as the wave from Latin America has surged.
''This is a justice issue,'' he said. ''We feel you have to take care of
people.''

Mr. Sensenbrenner, the Republican chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
said Republicans had an obligation to clamp down on the border. To do otherwise,
he said, would likely transform illegal immigrants into a permanent underclass
in the United States.

That, he pointed out on ''The O'Reilly Factor,'' was an undesirable option.
''And I don't think it's Christian either,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Church Issue -- A parishioner at an Ash Wednesday service in Los
Angeles intended for illegal immigrants. Catholic Church leaders say they will
defy a tough new immigration law if it is enacted. (Photo by David McNew/Getty
Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Are Just That

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 193 words



To the Editor:

In ''The Wrong Path on Immigration'' (editorial, March 12), you said that Long
Island is ''a nesting place for insularity and fearfulness,'' and that local
politicians practiced ''misguided nativism'' and were ''tough instead of smart''
on the subject.

Leftist name-calling makes it impossible to have a reasoned discussion about
illegal immigration.

Illegals take American jobs, and not just unskilled ones. They overburden our
schools and hospitals, and endanger the continued existence of those very
institutions by their large numbers. American taxpayers pick up the tab.

Astonishingly, when American citizens demand that immigration laws be enforced,
many of these illegals (recently in Hempstead) organize demonstrations demanding
their ''rights'' and crying ''racism.'' Since when do those who live here at our
sufferance get to rewrite our laws?

Illegals are lawbreakers, and should be treated as such. No amnesty. In the face
of 9/11, we know that some are coming here seeking not jobs, but our nation's
destruction. We need to secure our borders, now. And we need to deport those who
are not here legally.

Leslie Dimmling
Garden City

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Newark: Customs Officer Convicted Of Bribery

BYLINE: NYT; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 90 words


A former Customs and Border Protection officer at Port Elizabeth was convicted
yesterday of bribery and attempting to conceal an illegal immigrant from
detection, said Christopher J. Christie, an United States attorney. The former
officer, Hakan Ozcelik, 31, of Astoria, Queens, was charged on Oct. 7, 2005, and
was convicted of accepting a $2,300 bribe for himself and another person from a
cooperating witness in connection with a scheme to help the witness resolve a
visa problem, the prosecutors said. He faces up to 27 months in prison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kiss Me, I'm Illegal

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Glossary The Un-Citizens; Pg.
5

LENGTH: 1122 words


MURKY self-described patriot groups call them ''terrorists.'' On combative talk
radio shows the term is ''illegal aliens.'' Advocates for immigrants prefer the
Emma Lazarus-evoking ''economic refugees.''

The most common label attached to the estimated 12 million foreign-born people
living in the United States without visas may be ''illegal immigrants,'' even
though some grammarians argue that the adjective can modify actions and things
(like left turns and hallucinogenic drugs) but not people. President Bush, a
proponent of offering citizenship to at least some of them, has used the more
optimistic and implicitly promising term ''undocumented immigrants.''

There is an almost magical power in naming things. To give a person, an act or a
group its name is to define it, assert a measure of control over how it is
perceived. (See Adam, in Genesis 2:20, who ''gave names to all cattle, and to
the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field.'' Also, see the playbooks
of most campaign managers.)

Like the battles over civil rights and abortion, the contest over immigration
has been joined as much in the naming of things as in the writing of laws.
Consider the labyrinth of language in play as Congress grapples with an overhaul
of immigration policy, its effort to fix what is widely considered a broken
system of deciding how many and which foreigners are allowed to enter, work in
or become citizens of the United States.

Tumbling in the air of the debate like so many juggled balls are enough words
and catch phrases -- some old, some new -- to form a peculiar dialect of the
national ambivalence: Guest workers. Willing workers. America's security.
Permanent temporary residents. Immigrant smuggling syndicate. Earned
legalization. Virtual fence. Birthright citizenship abuse (coined by lawmakers
who would cancel the citizenship rights of children born here to illegal
immigrants). Anchor babies (the term coined for such children). Police state
(what Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York says would result if illegal
immigration were criminalized). Two-time losers (Justice Antonin Scalia's phrase
for illegal immigrants who are deported twice -- one such immigrant brought a
case heard by the court last week).

George Lakoff, a linguistics professor at the University of California at
Berkeley and author of ''Don't Think of an Elephant: Know Your Values and Frame
the Debate,'' says the different language used in any public policy debate is
ultimately a contest for the public mind. ''Metaphors repeated often enough
eventually become part of your physical brain,'' he said. ''Use the word
'illegal' often enough, which suggests criminal, which suggests immoral, and you
have framed the issue of immigration to a remarkable degree.''

Every side, of course, claims that its choice of words is not only correct but a
reflection of the literal truth. Those favoring more restrictive laws, for
instance, assert that people who violate immigration laws are, de facto, illegal
residents.

''Immigration is such an emotional issue at this point that every word is being
hotly contested,'' said Frank Sherry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum, a group based in Washington that advocates a liberalized
policy. ''You know where people stand pretty much from the language they use,''
said Mr. Sherry, who uses the term ''undocumented immigrants.''

A House bill that would stiffen penalties for unauthorized immigration adds yet
another term to the list of synonyms for the illegal immigrant: felon. Under
that bill, which led to protests in Washington, Chicago and San Francisco a
couple of weeks ago, illegal immigrants would be charged with aggravated felony
and face five years in prison.

A Senate bill produced yet more terminology -- earned legalization -- which
would apply to illegal immigrants who pay their back taxes and stiff fines,
promise to learn English and wait in line. Earned legalization is not to be
confused with amnesty, a word in the immigration debate that is a bugaboo to all
sides, on the theory that rewarding illegal behavior would only lead to more of
it.

The language can be so arcane that even people who track immigration policy
might have been hard pressed to follow the conversation on ABC's ''This Week''
between the host, George Stephanopoulos, and the Senate majority leader, Bill
Frist. In one 10-second exchange, Mr. Frist said he was for enforcement, and Mr.
Stephanopoulos asked if Mr. Frist was also for guest worker, to which Mr. Frist
replied that he was for guest worker but against amnesty.

Enforcement, in the debate, is code for border security. The enforcement-only
bill passed by the House focuses exclusively on tightening border security. It
authorizes the building of a 700-mile fence, or the deployment of electronic
devices and drone aircraft to create a ''virtual fence.'' It does not establish
a guest worker program.

The enforcement-plus bills under review in the Senate (there are three, with a
fourth pending) tighten border security and create versions of a guest worker
program. (In Washington, to be in favor of ''enforcement-only'' or
''enforcement-plus'' is to state one's immigration weltanschauung.)

As for the meaning of ''guest worker'' in the enforcement-plus universe, it
depends. It can signify a long-term foreign worker who might eventually become a
citizen. It can also indicate someone who works for two years with no such
expectation, and then goes home. It can be a seasonal worker who goes home after
every harvest. And in the most restrictive version, it is perhaps a little like
the homey status of the political prisoners in Frank O'Connor's short story
''Guests of the Nation.'' The prisoners are treated like friends of the family
until one is ordered executed in the national interest.

Ultimately, there may be no neutral language possible in the immigration debate
-- any more than there is in other emotionally charged human interaction, said
Deborah Tannen, a professor of linguistics at Georgetown University and the
author of the best-selling ''You're Wearing That? Understanding Mothers and
Daughters in Conversation.'' Ms. Tannen claims no special expertise about
immigration, but she knows communication. ''People cling to words, and use them,
as a way of showing whose side they're on, who their people are,'' she said.

Guillermo Gomez-Pena, a performance artist and writer born in Mexico known for
his observations about the cultural life of the border, has coined his own term
for the movement of people, legally or illegally, temporarily or permanently,
willingly or not, from south of the border to the north. In a recent
performance, he mordantly referred to it all as ''original sin.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tamara Shopsin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protests Go On In Several Cities As Panel Acts

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27


Tens of thousands of immigrants here and in several other cities continued a
wave of angry protests on Monday over Congressional proposals to arrest illegal
immigrants and to fortify the Mexican border.

In Los Angeles, about 22,000 mostly Hispanic students walked out of school. As
some 2,000 gathered at City Hall, others marched through the streets chanting,
''We are not criminals!'' Students elsewhere in the Los Angeles area, including
the communities of Inglewood, Alhambra and Montebello, followed suit.

In San Francisco, about 1,000 demonstrators marched to the offices of Senator
Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which
later on Monday approved an overhaul far more favorable to illegal immigrants
than a measure already passed by the House.

About 4,000 people turned out for a rally in Detroit, where Hispanic business
owners closed their shops in protest. A crowd of several hundred Hispanic
immigrants rallied on Boston Common.

The protests, having first flared late last week, spread Monday to the Capitol
as the Judiciary Committee worked on its version of the legislation. As approved
later in the day, the bill, contrary to the House measure, would not make
illegal immigration a felony and in fact would clear the way to citizenship for
millions of illegal immigrants already in the country.

About 1,000 demonstrators gathered on the west lawn of the Capitol as clerics of
many faiths denounced a House provision that would make it a crime to give aid
to illegal immigrants. The crowd cheered at the news that this provision had
been stricken from the Senate bill. But about 100 of the clerics, who had bound
themselves with plastic handcuffs, marched to a Senate office building and
chanted, ''Let our people stay!''

The continuing demonstrations underscored the stakes for illegal immigrants in
whatever legislation emerges from Congress. Some conservative commentators, on
the other hand, have argued that the protests reflect the kind of social
disorder they fear illegal immigration brings.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students who had walked out of school in Los Angeles converged
on City Hall yesterday, and other protesters rallied at the Capitol in
Washington. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 129 words



To the Editor:

Re ''It Isn't Amnesty'' (editorial, March 29):

I don't understand how this new immigration bill will do anything but increase
illegal immigration.

It is now against the law for employers to hire illegal immigrants, but they do.
It is illegal for anyone to use false documents, but they do.

Illegal immigrants did not follow the laws when they came here. Why should we
expect them to follow the laws now? Who will check that they buy health and car
insurance, pay taxes and learn English?

As long as employers don't go to jail for hiring illegal immigrants and these
immigrants are given free education and health care, nothing will change.

Isn't this new legislation just another effort to legitimize illegal behavior?

Carol Wheeler
Katy, Tex., March 29, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Seeks New Ways To Tighten Immigration

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday offered some of his most explicit views so
far on the national immigration debate, calling for much tighter border
controls, more generous visa policies for foreign scientists and the granting of
permanent residency -- though not necessarily citizenship -- to the estimated 11
million illegal immigrants in this country.

The mayor, who has seized on ideas from both the right and the left on
immigration matters, spoke favorably for the first time about erecting a
''physical wall'' along the borders with Mexico and Canada or using technologies
like sensors to detect the movements of migrants across borders.

''I have said from Day 1, get control of the borders,'' the mayor said in a
radio call-in program on WABC. ''People say, 'All right, I want control of the
borders, but I don't want a wall.' Well, that's O.K. Just tell me what else
works. And nobody's come up with an idea.''

Later, speaking about illegal immigrants, he said: ''Legalize them, close the
border and be serious about closing the border. And people say, 'Oh, you know,
the wall -- you can always climb over it.' Well, if 3,000 come through one
little point on the border every day and you build a wall so only 10 climb the
wall, I would argue that if you get it down to a hundred, if you get it down to
a thousand, you'd be successful by that standard.''

Just as Mr. Bloomberg's call for legalizing illegal immigrants has placed him at
odds with conservative Republicans, so his call for tighter border controls
could alienate liberal Democrats, who make up much of the city's electorate.

Moises Perez, executive director of Alianza Dominicana, a nonprofit group that
provides social services in Manhattan and the Bronx, applauded Mr. Bloomberg's
condemnation of criminalizing illegal immigrants and his recognition of their
economic contributions, but said the idea of a wall was absurd. ''Why not build
a wall around the entire country?'' he asked.

Deborah J. Notkin, a Manhattan lawyer who is president of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, which supports gradual legalization of illegal
immigrants, said that a fence along the border would not work and would cost far
more to monitor than the entire current budget for Customs and border
enforcement.

''The drug traffickers can dig tunnels, the smugglers can get boats and we
cannot have a Berlin Wall-type structure become our symbol, and substitute
itself for the Statue of Liberty,'' she said.

On the radio show, Mr. Bloomberg called for raising the number of H-1B visas,
which allow skilled professionals sponsored by their employers to work
temporarily in the United States.

''We are killing ourselves, hurting universities and hospitals and research in
this country,'' he said. ''We're losing the battle. Our science is going
overseas.''

The mayor also ridiculed rules that bar employers from inquiring about
immigration status and said it was difficult for many employers to verify
applicants' identification documents.

''Let's say they don't speak a word of English, O.K.?'' he asked. ''So that's a
good tip, maybe, that the guy wasn't born here. Maybe you should check. Unh-unh.
Can't check any more for that person than you check for the person who speaks
the king's English.''

Meanwhile, he said, forgers ''set up tables in the streets. You can buy a green
card and a Social Security card, a combination for $50.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

King Canute At The Border

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY; Maureen Dowd is on a book leave.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 738 words


George Bush is the King Canute of the immigration debate, and I mean that in a
nice way.

Canute has an image problem today because so many people think of him as that
batty old English king who thought he could command the tide to recede. But
that's the wrong spin on his legend.

In the original tale, he was a sensible ruler who was tired of hearing flattery
from his courtiers about his great powers. When they told him that even the
tides would obey his command, he went down to the sea to teach them a lesson in
limits.

Today's courtiers are the Republicans in Congress and the others demanding that
America ''secure the border.'' They're furious at Bush for suggesting that a
crackdown at the border will not stop the tide of illegal immigrants.

''When you make something illegal that people want, there's a way around it,''
he said, pointing out an inconvenient reality that would remain even if a
2,000-mile fence were built on the southern border. People would keep going
under it, through it or around it to other borders.

The Border Patrol has tried building fences and adding thousands of agents, and
in some places it has made smuggling harder. Yet the overall flow of immigrants
hasn't slowed. No matter how hard they work, the agents can't outlaw basic
economics.

In San Diego, for instance, agents took pride that their concentrated efforts
had caused local smugglers to raise their fee to $1,500. But that's still a
small price next to what immigrants stand to gain. Chinese immigrants are
already paying $20,000 apiece to be smuggled into America.

It's the same kind of economic quandary that has stymied the war on drugs. For
more than a quarter-century, federal and local authorities have tried to solve
America's drug problem by making smuggling and dealing prohibitively expensive.

They've stepped up enforcement at the borders, promising that more agents and
new technology would make a difference. They've taken the fight to countries
supplying drugs. They filled prisons with dealers and addicts. But even though
they raised the cost of smuggling and dealing, the increase was never enough to
make a difference.

''Seizing drugs has not had any perceptible impact on the availability of
drugs,'' says Peter Reuter, an economist at the University of Maryland who's an
expert on drugs and other black markets. ''Even though enforcement has gotten
tougher by any measure, the prices of drugs have been falling steadily.''

I'm not suggesting that stopping drugs is the same as stopping the flow of
illegal immigrants. In many ways the drug war is easier because it enjoys more
popular support. Most people would like to see less drug use. No one wants a
drug market on the corner, and people will urge the police to round up dealers
and addicts there.

They're not about to turn in the illegal immigrants working in their stores,
their neighborhoods and their homes. They know how hard immigrants work and how
much they contribute. They may tell pollsters there's too much immigration, but
they like the immigrants they know.

Americans are understandably angry to see immigrants' breaking the law, but
they're not going to be assuaged when a crackdown simply creates more
illegality. The only practical way to reduce lawbreaking is to change the law so
more immigrants can enter legally and the ones here can stop hiding, the
approach favored by Bush and Senators John McCain and Edward Kennedy.

Some skeptics doubt that illegal immigrants want to come forward and start
paying taxes. But most immigrants claim to be willing, at least according to a
new survey of more than 200 undocumented workers in Los Angeles, Chicago and
Miami conducted for the Manhattan Institute and the National Immigration Forum.

About 4 in 10 of them said they're already getting taxes deducted from their
paychecks, and 70 percent said they'd be willing to pay back taxes to get legal
status. More than 90 percent said they'd comply with other requirements, like
paying a fine of $1,000, getting fingerprinted and submitting to a criminal
background check.

Railing at them for breaking the law is not going to make them go home or stop
others from following them here. Immigrants will cross the border one way or
another. The more of them we let in legally, the better off everyone will be.
Whether you welcome more immigrants, as I do, or whether you'd rather see fewer,
there's no point in commanding the tide to ebb.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plentiful, Productive -- and Illegal

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words


Since 2000, an estimated 850,000 unauthorized immigrants have entered the United
States each year, population roughly equivalent to a city the size of
Indianapolis.

Congress is roiled in a debate about how to deal with the flow, most of which
originates in Latin America. Two-thirds of the arrivals get jobs, many at low
wages. The rest do not work; 16 percent are children.

Some experts predict reduced immigration pressure in coming decades because
Mexico's fertility rate is dropping sharply, from about five children born per
woman in 1970 to just three children in 2000. Those 1970's and 1980's babies are
arriving now.   BILL MARSH

The American Work Force: 148 Million
Each symbol represents 1 million workers in 2005.

About 4.9 percent of all workers in the United States are illegal immigrants.

Illegal Immigrants
NOT WORKING: 3.9 MILLION
WORKING: 7.2 MILLION

The Arrivals
The population of illegal immigrants in the U.S. has risen 185 percent since
1992.

Graph tracks illegal immigrant population since 1992.

Their Origins
Birthplaces of the illegal immigrants in the U.S. in 2005.

CANADA, EUROPE: 6%
AFRICA, OTHER: 3%
ASIA: 13%
LATIN AMERICA: 78%
A. MEXICO: 56%
B. OTHER: 22%

Enforcement
The number of border patrol agents nationwide rose 179 percent from 1992 to
2006.

But actions against businesses that employ illegal immigrants (here, warnings of
impending fines) by 2004 had virtually stopped.

Graphs track number of border patrol agents as well as fines since 1992.

Where They Work
It is suggested that illegal workers do the jobs that others aren't willing to
do. But it is estimated that legal workers hold most of the jobs even in
occupations where illegals are highly concentrated (that is, beyond their 4.9%
share of the overall labor force).

FARMING, FISHING, FORESTRY
ILLEGAL: 24%
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND LEGAL WORKERS: 76%

CLEANING
ILLEGAL: 17
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND LEGAL WORKERS: 83

CONSTRUCTION
ILLEGAL: 14
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND LEGAL WORKERS: 86

FOOD PREPARATION
ILLEGAL: 12
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND LEGAL WORKERS: 88

MANUFACTURING
ILLEGAL: 9
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND LEGAL WORKERS: 91

TRANSPORT
ILLEGAL: 7
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND LEGAL WORKERS: 93

Illegal immigrants make up 2% of all other occupations.

American Public Opinion
What is the best way to reduce illegal immigration from Mexico?

PENALIZE EMPLOYERS: 49%
MORE BORDER PATROL: 33
BUILD MORE FENCES: 9
DON'T KNOW: 9

Immigrants today ...(EDUCATION LEVEL OF RESPONDENTS)

COLLEGE GRADUATE
... are a burden because they take jobs, housing and health care.: 36%
... strengthen our country with their hard work and talents.: 56%

SOME COLLEGE STUDY
... are a burden because they take jobs, housing and health care.: 54
... strengthen our country with their hard work and talents.: 38

HIGH SCHOOL OR LESS
... are a burden because they take jobs, housing and health care.: 59
... strengthen our country with their hard work and talents.: 35

Reduced Wages
Immigrants entering the work force, legally and illegally, reduced wages of
native-born workers from 1980 to 2000, according to Prof. George J. Borjas of
Harvard.

REDUCTION IN WAGES:
ASIAN WORKERS: 3.1%
WHITE: 3.5
BLACK: 4.5
HISPANIC: 5.0

If Farm Wages Grew
Raising farm labor pay would have a modest effect on consumer prices, according
to Prof. Philip Martin of the University of California, Davis.

The average U.S. household spent $370 on fresh fruit and vegetables in 2004.
Farmers receive about $65 of that.
Farm workers typically get a third or less of the farmer's share: $22.
A 40 percent rise in the average wage (now $8.83 an hour) would lift those
workers above poverty level incomes.
That adds $9 to the $370 cost of produce, about 2 or 3 cents per dollar.

(Sources by Pew Hispanic Center; Pew Research Center for the People and the
Press; Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement; Dr. Gordon H. Hanson,
University of California, San Diego)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prosecutions in Immigration Doubled in Last Four Years

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28


Federal prosecutions for immigration violations more than doubled in the last
four years, surpassing drugs as the most frequently pursued federal crime,
according to new data released Wednesday by a private research group. The change
reflects a major shift in priorities since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Immigration prosecutions surged to 38,000 last year from 16,300 in 2001, as
federal authorities mounted a crackdown on illegal immigration as a way of
deterring terrorism, according to the Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse, a research group connected to Syracuse University that compiled
the data.

Prosecutions for drug crimes have begun to decline, dropping to 30,988 last year
from 32,753 in 2001, the new data showed. The Syracuse group's data showed that
immigration prosecutions passed drug crimes last year as the crime most
frequently prosecuted by federal officials.

The study, analyzing half a million federal prosecutions, offers perhaps the
firmest evidence to date of the refocusing of federal law enforcement priorities
since the Sept. 11 attacks toward illegal immigration, terrorism-related
offenses and gun crimes and away from drugs and white-collar crime. Prosecutions
for white-collar crime dropped to 7,000 cases last year from 9,500 in 2001, the
study found.

''This is a substantial shift any way you measure it,'' said David Burnham,
co-director of the research group, which collects and analyzes federal data on
law enforcement and financial issues. ''We're seeing choices being made by
United States attorneys and by the president about what's important and what's
not, and clearly, the administration has changed the priorities of the federal
law enforcement machine.''

The Justice Department has often tangled with the Syracuse research group over
its methodology and access to law enforcement data. Paul Bresson, a spokesman
for the department, said the group's numbers were ''misleading'' because a
significant number of misdemeanor immigration prosecutions in Texas that had not
previously been counted were included.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, hundreds of agents at the Federal Bureau of
Investigation who had been working on drug investigations have been diverted to
terrorism cases, and many financial investigators at the F.B.I. and the
Department of Homeland Security are now handling cases related to terrorist
financing.

The new numbers from the Syracuse group bear out the trend. The number of cases
brought by the Justice Department related to terrorism rose to nearly 800 last
year from 115 in 2001. The number peaked at 1,208, but researchers at Syracuse
and some critics of the administration's antiterror policies have asserted that
the department inflated its prosecution numbers after Sept. 11 by including
cases that had little or no connection to terrorism.

With the drop-off over the last three years, ''it appears that prosecutors are
being more selective,'' Mr. Burnham said.

A separate study by Mr. Burnham's group at Syracuse, completed last month, found
that the Justice Department was now bringing many criminal charges in
immigration cases that once would probably have been handled as administrative
matters. This was particularly true in South Texas, where prosecutors went into
''super drive'' on immigration crimes last year and spurred a 345 percent
increase in recommendations for criminal prosecutions, rising in a single year
to 18,092 from 4,062, the study found.

Federal prosecutions for gun and weapons crimes rose to more than 10,000 last
year from about 6,500 in 2001, the study showed, and child-pornography
prosecution rose to 728 cases last year from 428 in 2001.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Changing Priorities Since 9/11 Attacks''Federal criminal
prosecutions in immigration cases have surpassed drugs as the top crime
category.Graph tracks Federal criminal prosecutions in drugs, weapons, white
collar and immigration cases from 1993 to 2004.(Source by Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Minnesota, a Community of Mexican Immigrants Takes Root

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and ELISABETH MALKIN; Eduardo Porter reported from
Minnesota for this article, and Elisabeth Malkin from Axochiapan, Mexico.

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Way North of the Border;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1720 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


At first blush, Mexico's newest American consulate might appear out of place.
Far from the Mexican border, this prosperous state capital, along with
Minneapolis and the surrounding suburbs, form a sprawling metropolis with
Scandinavian overtones.

Yet by the time the Mexican government opened its 46th consulate in the United
States here in June, it was already a latecomer to a bustling Mexican-American
community that includes, according to consular officials, 22 churches offering
services in Spanish, 9 Spanish-language newspapers, 3 tortilla makers and 9
Hispanic -- mostly Mexican -- soccer leagues.

''We are responding to the needs of the Mexican community,'' said Nathan Wolf,
the new consul. ''We are just following the movement of people.''

The location of Mexico's latest American consulate provides a stark illustration
of how economically improving groups of Mexican immigrants are establishing
themselves across the country, in ways that experts say point to the futility of
current attempts to plug the border and stem the flow of illegal migrants in
search of a better life.

[Indeed, while overall migration to the United States peaked in 2000, according
to a new study by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center, the number of illegal
immigrants -- mostly from Mexico -- rose sharply last year after three years of
decline that started with the 2001 recession.]

When the governors of New Mexico and Arizona declared states of emergency in
August and called on the federal government to help stop the tide of illegal
immigrants coming across the border, their move did nothing to interrupt the
consulate's busy preparations to start four Mexican ''hometown associations,''
linking immigrants with their home states.

''They call Minneapolis the new Axochiapan,'' said Ramiro Hernandez, a
successful businessman who arrived in the United States illegally 20 years ago
from Axochiapan, a small town in the central Mexican state of Morelos. ''Ninety
percent of the population there has people over here. Kids come here as soon as
they come of age.''

The 2000 census recorded 41,600 Mexican-born people in Minnesota, up from 3,500
counted in 1990. Locals in Minneapolis say that new arrivals have multiplied
even faster over the last five years, coming from Mexico and from Mexican hubs
in the United States, notably Chicago. ''We think there are around 200,000,''
Mr. Wolf said.

A strong local economy helps pull Mexicans from steamy Morelos to the chilly
Minnesota plain. The state's unemployment rate is among the lowest in the
nation; at 3.3 percent, the jobless rate for Minneapolis-St. Paul is the lowest
among big metropolitan areas. The forces driving migrants into the United States
are even broader, however, and are increasing the supply of working-age Mexicans
willing to do whatever it takes to cross the border.

''Immigration trends are virtually unaffected by spending on border
enforcement,'' said J. Edward Taylor, a professor at the University of
California, Davis, who has surveyed migrants in Mexico about their experiences.
''It means the things driving migration are too big to be counteracted by
enforcement.''

Demography plays the biggest role. The Mexican government projects that the 11-
to 40-year-old population -- the prime age for migration -- will continue to
grow over the next decade, by roughly 6 percent, to 59 million people, before
starting to decline over the subsequent 35 years as Mexico ages.

Economic dynamics also contribute to the flow. Mexico's backward rural economy,
which produces only 5 percent of Mexico's output but employs more than a fifth
of its labor force of 40 million, is poised to remain a plentiful source of
migrants.

''There's an unexpectedly high share of workers still in agriculture,''
Professor Taylor said. ''That's like a fault line.''

While Mexican demographics are pushing, American demand for cheap labor is
pulling just as hard. Gordon H. Hanson, an economics professor at the University
of California, San Diego, argues the immigration boom of the last 20 years
resulted from two factors: the growth in the Mexican working-age population and
the decline in high school dropout rates in the United States, which reduced the
domestic supply of low-skilled workers. ''It was a match made in heaven,'' he
said.

A Mexican government agency, the National Population Council, forecasts that
about 400,000 Mexicans will migrate to the United States every year for the next
decade and that the flow should then decline gradually to an estimated 325,000 a
year by 2050. Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center,
argues that at least in the near term, even this estimate seems low.

To try to stem the flow, the United States government has increased annual
spending on border policing in the last 10 years by more than fivefold in real
terms. The Border Patrol has swollen to 10,000 agents, equipped with sensors and
cameras, planes and drones.

Yet if the border has become tougher, so, too, have migrants. These days, only a
third make it into the United States on their first try, according to a survey
by the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies of the University of
California, San Diego. But 59 percent make it across on their second to fifth
attempts. Only 8 percent give up and go home.

''Once I was caught five times,'' said Arnulfo Pliego, 44, a migrant from
Axochiapan who first came to the United States in 1989 and has shuttled between
Morelos and Minnesota for the last nine years. ''I said to myself, 'I must pass,
I must pass,' and I passed.''

From 1991 to 1994, some 450,000 illegal immigrants were coming to the United
States annually, mostly from Mexico. In the first four years of this decade, the
average exceeded 600,000, according to the Pew Hispanic Center report.

Mr. Passel estimates that the Mexican-born population in the United States has
swollen to 11 million people, some 60 percent of them here illegally. ''If you
look at the numbers,'' he said, ''it seems that anybody that wants to get in
does.''

Indeed, the stepped-up border policing is deterring immigrants from returning
home and encouraging them to settle in the United States indefinitely.
Meanwhile, the sheer numbers provide new incentives to migrate, as strong
networks of immigrants emerge, linking communities on both sides of the border,
making migration somewhat easier and effectively transforming it to a routine.

Consider Rosalba Cano. When she followed her husband north, leaving Axochiapan
with her 2-year-old child 10 years ago, there were very few of her compatriots
in Minneapolis. ''I only came because my husband said he was leaving and
wouldn't be back in a while,'' said Ms. Cano, 33, a former preschool teacher.
''I was all alone here for a long time.''

But then one of Ms. Cano's sisters arrived, followed by her brother and a couple
of cousins. She now has three uncles in town. Ms. Cano's husband, Osvaldo
Garcia, a former farmworker from Axochiapan, has two brothers and two sisters
living in the Twin Cities.

The latest arrival is Ms. Cano's sister-in-law, Obsidiana Enriquez Navarro, 25,
who quit her job with the Axochiapan municipal government last year, paid a
smuggler $2,000 to get her across the border, then trudged through the Arizona
desert before catching transportation to Minneapolis.

There are so many men from Axochiapan in the area that the village priest came
to visit. ''Father Miguel came to look for the husbands and take them back, but
he didn't manage to get any,'' Ms. Enriquez Navarro said.

Migration is leaving a deep mark on Axochiapan, a county seat at the center of a
cluster of villages with a population of some 30,000. In one village,
Quebrantadero, people talk of closing the primary school because there are so
few young children left.

In Tlalayo, another village, the streets are paved and lined with two-story
concrete houses, the product of a construction boomlet financed by remittances
from the United States. But with crop prices low and government subsidies
limited, the traditional agricultural economy has withered, leaving only elderly
men to till the fields.

Municipal officials in Axochiapan estimate that at least a third of the
population has moved. The mayor wants to honor the migrants with a 10-foot
statue of a man carrying a bag and leaving his wife and two children behind.
That may seem paradoxical but he has his reasons.

''I realize that Mexico has moved ahead thanks to remittances,'' said the mayor,
Leopoldo Rodriguez Galarza. ''In part, they have helped reduce poverty.''

The human flow is changing the Twin Cities, too. East Lake Street in
Minneapolis, formerly gang-ridden and drug-infested, has become a lively Mexican
commercial center.

Mr. Hernandez, who is now a legal resident in the United States, first went into
business bringing in Mexican cuts of meat like the salt-cured cecina steak and
the heavily spiced pork al pastor from Chicago, and Mexican videos he bought
from a bankrupt Blockbuster in California.

He now owns several jewelry shops, a money remittance business, three
cowboy-wear stores and a video-rental shop. He is a partner in a local
Spanish-language radio station and a supermarket.

And in an echo of the planned Axochiapan monument, he is working with other
local community leaders to persuade the governor of Morelos to donate a statue
of Emiliano Zapata, the Mexican revolutionary hero.

These cross-border connections have become so strong, officials say, that
nothing is likely to stop Axochiapan's citizens from continuing to seek jobs in
the Twin Cities.

In the Cano-Garcia household, Mr. Garcia earns $15 an hour driving a dump truck
for a landscaping business and Ms. Cano makes $11 an hour as a supervisor at a
taco grill. It is money they could never dream of earning in Mexico.

With two more children, they now own a house, a small duplex in a leafy
neighborhood across from a park. The state government has provided extensive
help to care for their second son, who is autistic.

''I am very happy with Minnesota,'' Ms. Cano said. ''I have done very well here.
It's the best for the future of my children.''

Meanwhile, the Mexican government is making plans for its next consulate.
According to Mr. Wolf, it should open in Little Rock, Ark., before the end of
the year.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosalba Cano, Osvaldo Garcia and their children at their
Minneapolis home. Ramiro Hernandez, right, is a partner in a St. Paul
supermarket. (Photographs by Allen Brisson-Smith for The New York Times)
Acacio and Ernestina Montesinos in Axochiapan, Mexico, have four children who
are living in the United States. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York
Times)(pg. C1)
 Municipal officials in Axochiapan, Mexico, estimate that at least a third of
the population has moved away. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York
Times)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Coming to America''More immigrants come to the United
States from Mexico than from any other country, and, after three years of
decline, there are indications that Mexican immigration is again
increasing.Graph shows numbers of annual U.S. immigrants from MEXICO, ASIA,
OTHER LATIN AMERICA, EUROPE, AND CANADA (since 1992).(Source by Pew Hispanic
Center)(pg. C2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Alabama: Anti-Immigrant Force To Double

BYLINE: By Brenda Goodman (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 100 words


Gov. Bob Riley announced that he would more than double the number of state
troopers who can question and arrest undocumented immigrants in the state.

Alabama is one of three states that have signed agreements with the Department
of Homeland Security allowing them to use the state police to enforce federal
immigration law. By mid-November, Governor Riley said, Alabama would have 46
troopers trained by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. Alabama's
undocumented Hispanic population grew rapidly in the 1990's, according to the
Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, D.C.   Brenda Goodman (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 5, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  Connecticut: New Haven: Mayor Proposes Id's For Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 85 words


Mayor John DeStefano Jr. has suggested that the city provide legal
identification cards to illegal immigrants as part of a program to make city and
other services more accessible. The mayor said on Monday that he wanted to give
illegal immigrants a legitimate form of identification so they could open bank
accounts, prove their identity to the police and have access to social services.
But Elise Marciano, leader of Connecticut Citizens for Immigration Control, said
the program would violate immigration laws.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: North Carolina: 3 Fort Bragg Teachers Charged

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 69 words


Three people who taught foreign languages at the Joint Special Operations
Command Center at Fort Bragg were arrested on immigration charges, federal
officials said. Two Indonesians, Nurkis Qadariah, 34, and Sayf Rimal, 37, were
arrested on Tuesday and charged with possessing and using false documents.
Another man, Ousmane Moreau, 38, of Senegal, was arrested on Monday and charged
with being in the country illegally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Haven Mayor Ponders ID Cards for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Oct. 6


It seems nearly everyone was caught off guard the day John DeStefano Jr., the
Democratic mayor of this city and a candidate for governor, said he wanted to
allow thousands of illegal immigrants here to apply for new municipal
identification cards.

The reaction, from pleasant surprise and requests for applications to immediate
outrage on radio talk shows, has been loud and persistent among those engaged
with the increasingly tender issue of how illegal immigration is affecting
smaller cities across the country.

And for at least a little while from the mayor's office, there also seemed to be
a reversal.

''The city is not issuing such cards nor is there a plan to do so,'' said a news
release Mr. DeStefano's office issued on Tuesday, the day after he mentioned the
identification cards while announcing a new program, ''Hablamos Espanol,''
intended to increase bilingual city services.

In the days since, Mr. DeStefano has said that initial reports that a plan was
in place to issue identification cards were inaccurate, but that so was his news
release.

He said it was issued by his staff on a day he was out of town campaigning and
that his spokesman, Derek Slap, was on vacation.

''What we were trying to figure out is whether we could legally do it,'' Mr.
DeStefano said of the identification cards during a phone interview on Thursday.
''That's where we were Monday. That's where we are today.''

Yet while Mr. DeStefano navigates the mixed reaction from his constituents in
New Haven, a heavily Democratic college town, he also faces a much broader
audience. He is a leading Democratic contender for governor at a time when
illegal immigration has become a divisive topic across the state and the nation.

Just 35 miles away, in Danbury, Mayor Mark D. Boughton, a Republican, has drawn
attention for his attempts to crack down on the impact of illegal immigrants in
that city's neighborhoods.

Nationwide, local officials have complained that the failure of the federal
government to enforce border controls and immigration laws has put enormous
pressures on smaller cities where illegal immigrants have arrived.

Mr. DeStefano, serving his sixth two-year term, says he did not intend to prompt
a larger debate, one that expanded after the Associated Press and CNN picked up
a report from an article in The New Haven Register on Tuesday about the
identification cards.

The mayor said that some stories mischaracterized the cards as already approved,
as opposed to under consideration, but he also said he and his office had made
missteps.

''I think what happened on Tuesday was this was becoming a metaphor for a much
larger set of issues,'' the mayor said. ''We missed that. And because we created
some confusion we were getting advocates on both sides upset around an emotional
issue. It was a Government 101 thing that we failed at, that a mature
administration shouldn't fail at.''

Mr. DeStefano, who had raised more than $2 million for his 2006 campaign for
governor as of June 30, more than any other candidate, said he realized some
voters would think he had reversed himself, only to reverse himself again.

''It looked like we were being pushed around,'' he said on Thursday. ''I hate
being perceived as being cute. You know what I mean by being cute?''

A day later, he said he was less concerned about perceptions.

''I don't think this is something I'm going to worry about the politics on,'' he
said on Friday. ''If it's the right thing to do we're going to do it.''

Connecticut Citizens for Immigration Control, a group that has emerged this year
in immigration debates in Danbury, West Hartford and elsewhere, opposes
identification cards.

''It's all inducing someone to reside in the United States, and that is
illegal,'' said Paul Streitz, the director of the group, who lives in Darien.
''If people in Mexico got word that New Haven was giving out ID cards, what's
going to happen? More people are going to come.''

Advocates for the cards say otherwise.

Echoing Mr. DeStefano and the New Haven police chief, Francisco Ortiz Jr., they
say the cards would help integrate immigrants into community life, allow them to
get library cards, sign leases and open bank accounts and deposit money, leaving
them less vulnerable to robbery.

They say the cards would give immigrants a comfort level with the police in
discussing crime, rather than fearing deportation.

Mike Wishnie, a professor at New York University School of Law's Immigrant
Rights Clinic who advised immigrant rights groups in New Haven on the idea of
the cards while he was a visiting professor at Yale University this spring, said
no state or federal law prohibited the cards.

He said the city could request a birth certificate or other form of
identification from an immigrant's home country and require fingerprints.

''We're not saying everyone has an entitlement to this at all,'' he said.

Kica Matos, executive director of Junta for Progressive Action, was among those
who recommended the cards to the mayor earlier this year.

Ms. Matos did not attend the ''Hablamos Espanol'' announcement on Monday but
said two of her colleagues did and were surprised and pleased that the mayor
said he wanted to create the cards.

On Tuesday, after first being told by the mayor's staff that news accounts had
incorrectly reported the mayor's comments, she spoke with Mr. DeStefano.

''He told me that the city still intended to go ahead with this initiative,''
Ms. Matos said. ''He was surprised to learn that the press release stated that
the city had no intention to go through with this initiative.''

The mayor said it remained unclear whether the city would legally be able to
issue the cards, in part because he was uncertain whether the federal government
could demand access to information the city collects.

It is also unclear what impact the issue may have on the governor's race.

Mr. DeStefano's leading Democratic opponent, Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford,
has created a ''no-hassle zone'' and installed portable toilets for day laborers
waiting for work in some areas, generating criticism from some, including Mr.
Streitz, who said the city was ''accommodating illegals.''

Mr. Malloy said, ''We don't ask status questions when it comes to provision of
service.''

When he was asked what he thought of Mr. DeStefano's handling of the
identification card issue, he said, ''I'm not really sure what the proposal is
out of New Haven anymore.

''It's important in public life to be consistent, concise and to be correct and
not to propose policies until you can be consistent, concise and correct.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Renews Push for Immigrant-Worker Plan

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18


President Bush vowed on Tuesday to get tough on illegal immigrants even as he
urged Congress to adopt a temporary-worker program that would allow some to
remain in the United States for as long as six years.

''We're going to get control of our borders,'' Mr. Bush said in the White House
East Room just before signing a $32 billion domestic security bill that has big
increases for the Border Patrol, including money for 1,000 new agents and
improved technology. ''We'll make this country safer for all our citizens.''

Mr. Bush added, ''If somebody is here illegally, we've got to do everything we
can to find them.'' Once illegal immigrants are caught, he said, they must be
''returned to their home countries as soon as possible.''

Mr. Bush's words, among his most insistent on illegal immigrants to date, were
intended to calm conservatives upset at his temporary-worker plan, which a
number of Republicans view as an amnesty program. Mr. Bush first proposed the
plan in January 2004, but it has run into resistance.

In a renewed effort to win support, the White House is now emphasizing the
border enforcement part of the plan, but at the same time insisting that
enforcement can work only as a part of what Mr. Bush on Tuesday called ''a
larger, comprehensive immigration reform program.''

Similar sentiments were voiced earlier in the day by Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao, who told the Senate
Judiciary Committee that increasing enforcement along the nation's borders would
not alone repair the nation's immigration system. They urged the adoption of a
temporary-worker program.

''This is a system desperately in need of repair,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''And the
fact of the matter is people are rightly upset and distressed about the prospect
that we do not have control of our border the way we should.''

Under the plan proposed by Mr. Bush, certain illegal immigrants already in the
United States would pay a fee and then be given a temporary worker visa good for
up to three years, with an option to renew it for three more. After the six
years, they would have to leave the country, Ms. Chao said. A worker would need
to apply for the program with an employer as a sponsor if the employer had a job
that no American could be found to take.

''By addressing the economic forces that drive immigration, we can meet
employers' need for workers, provide appropriate legal channels for foreign-born
workers to access opportunity and allow enforcement resources to be targeted on
the critical mission of border security,'' Ms. Chao said.

Mr. Bush, who was immersed in immigration issues as governor of Texas and has
promoted his plan in part as an appeal to politically important Hispanic voters,
cast the problem from the point of view of illegal immigrants themselves.

''You see, we got people sneaking into our country to work,'' he said. ''They
want to provide for their families. Family values do not stop at the Rio Grande
River. People are coming to put food on the table. But because there is no legal
way for them to do so, through a temporary-worker program, they're putting
pressure on our border.''

But even as Mr. Bush and his two cabinet members made their pitches, members of
both parties were questioning the president's plan.

Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, asked Mr. Chertoff how the
administration could enforce the requirement that temporary workers leave after
six years.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said the talk of such a
temporary-worker program was spurring even more illegal immigration to the
United States.

Other Democrats, including Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, pressed Ms.
Chao about why the Bush administration program did not simply offer a way for
illegal immigrants to become permanent legal residents.

And Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said that at least for now,
the administration should first prove that it could improve enforcement of the
borders, where more than one million people were apprehended in the last fiscal
year trying to cross illegally.

''Are you going to get busy now to enforce existing law?'' Mr. Sessions asked.

Mr. Chertoff said that the Homeland Security Department, which includes
Immigration and Customs and Enforcement as well as the Border Patrol, was not
waiting for a temporary-worker program.

The department, for example, is moving to finish work on a border fence near San
Diego, hiring the 1,000 additional Border Patrol officers provided for in the
measure signed by Mr. Bush and looking for ways to accelerate the deportation of
illegal immigrants.

The law also includes money for more than 1,900 additional beds in detention
centers, bringing the total to nearly 20,000. In addition, it provides $139
million to improve border technology and intelligence capabilities, $82 million
to improve and expand Border Patrol stations, and $70 million to install and
improve border fencing, lighting and roads.

In his remarks to the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Chertoff repeated that the effort
would be hampered if Congress did not help the administration reduce the
incentive for people to enter illegally.

''It's a three-legged stool,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''It requires tough
enforcement at the border, tough interior enforcement and a temporary-worker
program to deal with the very real draw.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, told senators
yesterday that a temporary-worker program would aid border security. (Photo by
Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Regaining Control of Our Borders

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 197 words



To the Editor:

Your editorial mentioned that illegal immigrants would have to pay a $2,000 fine
under the proposed legislative solution to the problem. I don't think that the
immigrants should have to pay anything. The problem would be fixed in a minute
if the employers of illegal immigrants were sought out and heavily fined.

Also, the editorial said that immigrants were doing jobs that Americans don't
want. This is a myth. Again, if employers paid fair wages, Americans would take
the jobs.

There is an elitism in this country that promotes the idea that manual labor is
beneath the status of Americans. This idea has undermined the economic status of
people who have the inclination and the talent to work with their hands. Not
everyone wants to be a knowledge worker.

The third action that would solve the flood of immigrants to the United States
would be for the labor unions to organize internationally, so that the global
economy would treat labor fairly. The United States should provide tax
incentives (or tax penalties for unfair payment of labor) to employers who pay
labor fairly whether in or outside the United States.

Idelle M. Peterson
Nanuet, N.Y., Oct. 14, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Regaining Control of Our Borders

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 174 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Fixing Illegal Immigration'' (editorial, Oct. 14):

To fix illegal immigration will take decisive action not only by Washington, but
also a conscientious effort by businesses that welcome illegal immigrants with
open arms.

Illegal immigration isn't anything new; it's simply more prevalent than in the
past. A primary reason for this surge has been the leniency allowed businesses
to employ undocumented workers.

Immigration law enforcement was not so lax two decades ago when I was growing up
near a ski resort. Businesses covertly employed illegal immigrants, but kept a
wary eye out for government officials.

Businesses currently employ illegal immigrants without much concern about
penalties or consequences.

The proposal of Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John McCain would grant gravitas
to immigration laws and also allow immigrants to live in the United States
without the stigma of being labeled illegal, not to mention risk their lives for
a shot at the American dream.

Wayne Trujillo
Lakewood, Colo., Oct. 14, 2005



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fellow Republicans, Open Your Doors

BYLINE: By Linda Chavez.

Linda Chavez, president of the Center for Equal Opportunity, was the director of
the United States Commission on Civil Rights under President Ronald Reagan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 936 words

DATELINE: Purcellville, Va.


REPUBLICAN candidates hoping to make illegal immigration a central issue in next
year's Congressional elections and the 2008 presidential race should consider
the results of the Virginia governor's contest.

The Republican candidate, Jerry Kilgore, tried to tap into sentiment against
illegal aliens by running advertisements that featured grainy video of border
arrests and Hispanic men waiting in line while an announcer accused his
Democratic opponent, Tim Kaine, of favoring ''taxpayer benefits for illegal
immigrants.'' In the last weeks of the race, Mr. Kilgore regularly worked the
theme into his campaign speeches, especially in Northern Virginia, home to most
of the state's immigrant population, legal and illegal.

But on Election Day, immigration failed to galvanize voters, and Mr. Kilgore
lost by six percentage points, coming up short even in reliably conservative
areas like Loudoun County, where I live. No doubt other missteps, including
harshly negative ads on his opponent's position on the death penalty,
contributed to Mr. Kilgore's defeat. But clearly, immigrant bashing can cut both
ways in an election.

Northern Virginia is home to about 200,000 illegal aliens. Jobs are plentiful,
many of them good-paying ones in construction. Statewide unemployment is at 3.5
percent, lower than the 5 percent national average; but Northern Virginia is
even lower at 2.5 percent. Legal immigrants in the area outnumber illegal ones
by more than 2 to 1 (about the same proportion as they do nationally), but both
groups have helped transform the region's economy into one of the most robust in
the nation.

Nationally, illegal immigrant males actually have higher labor force
participation rates -- 92 percent -- than other groups (83 percent for
native-born men and 82 percent for immigrant men overall). And they make up an
increasingly large share of certain occupations. A survey last summer by the Pew
Hispanic Center found that about a quarter of all drywall and ceiling tile
installers in the United States are illegal aliens, a statistic confirmed by a
visit to almost any construction site in the Virginia suburbs.

If these immigrant workers were to disappear tomorrow -- as so many politicians
and conservative talk-show hosts seem to desire -- it would have a drastic and
unwelcome effect on the economy here and around the country. Not only do these
workers fill necessary jobs in a tight labor market, but they spend their wages
largely in the communities in which they live and work, and most contribute
their share of taxes as well (employers generally withhold from paychecks in
these industries).

Unfortunately, buoyed by polls showing that most Americans (69 percent in a
survey last year) say that they are concerned about illegal immigration, some
Republicans are hoping to ride the issue into the White House. Representative
Tom Tancredo of Colorado, the leader of the virtually all-Republican immigration
reform caucus in the House, is spending time in Iowa, New Hampshire and South
Carolina in anticipation of a possible presidential campaign. (Mr. Tancredo
caused even some immigration hard-liners to wince when he tried to have a high
school honors student and his family deported after a newspaper article about
the boy noted that he entered the country illegally at age 12.)

The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, also eyeing a presidential run, has
e-mailed his supporters asking them to post messages on his Web site ''showing
support for a tough border bill.'' The National Republican Senatorial Committee
contacted one million Republican voters asking them to respond to a survey on
immigration that asked ''where loyal Republicans like you stand on this critical
issue.'' And there is even discussion among House Republicans to revoke the laws
giving citizenship to children born in America to illegal-immigrant parents.

Yet most polls show that illegal immigration is way down on the list of concerns
motivating most voters, and Republicans may be confusing the intensity of the
small number of people for whom it is a top priority -- usually about 10 percent
of voters -- with its overall appeal as an election issue.

None of this is to suggest that the status quo -- some 11 million illegal aliens
residing in the United States and more coming every day -- is desirable. Border
security is an important issue; indeed, it is too important for demagoguery. A
terrorist or drug smuggler can just as easily cross a porous border as can a
father hoping to support his family back home.

The best way to intercept the jihadists and criminals, however, would be to give
hard-working laborers a realistic opportunity to come here legally -- by
enacting a more generous legal immigration law with a guest-worker option.
Ideally, such a program would allow illegal aliens already here to participate
after paying a fine and demonstrating that they have paid taxes and are
gainfully employed.

Three Republican senators from border states -- John McCain and Jon Kyl of
Arizona and John Cornyn of Texas -- have introduced bills that address these
issues in various promising ways; and President Bush has outlined a similar, if
somewhat vaguer, proposal. A poll conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation and
Harvard's Kennedy School of Government last year showed that about 58 percent of
Republican respondents supported a guest worker program.

Republican leaders have two choices: continue with the hard-line rhetoric that
may or may not help at the polls, or enact market-based immigration reform that
will give a chance to those willing to work hard for a better America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Fence on the Border

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 323 words


The anti-immigration politicians certainly know how to get attention.
Representative Duncan Hunter, a Republican from California, attracted a full
battery of TV cameras the other day with his latest proposal to build a big
strong fence along the Mexican border. The idea is to stop the illegal
immigrants who enter the country mostly to take hard, low-paying jobs that
Americans refuse. Only as a bumper sticker does this ''fence 'em out'' plan
work. As immigration policy, it will just cost billions.

As the likes of Mr. Hunter tap into this politically rich vein, more thoughtful
lawmakers in Washington are doing the harder work of seeking a more
comprehensive approach. These lawmakers would secure the borders, of course,
although probably not with a fence. They would also create a temporary worker
program for those who want to fill the unwanted jobs. And finally, any workable
immigration plan must deal with the 11 million illegal immigrants who are
already in the country.

At this stage Congress seems to be slowly circling in on a policy. The House is
focused on enforcement of border security first and, in some cases, finally. So
far the Senate seems to be offering hope for a more comprehensive approach early
next year, with Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, leading a rare
bipartisan effort. The White House wants a comprehensive plan, but Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has moved ahead, promising more security
guards on borders and changes in policy that would allow guards to send all of
these trespassers back the way they came.

That may help in the short run, but it's a little like adding more buckets to
carry out the flow from a broken water main. As Representative Jim Kolbe,
another Arizona Republican, pointed out after Mr. Hunter proposed his big fence,
there are 10 times as many border guards on patrol in Arizona as there were a
decade ago, and a lot more people crossing the border.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Northwest: Idaho: County's Suit Over Illegal Immigrants Is
Thrown Out

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 120 words


A federal judge tossed out a southwest Idaho county's lawsuit against local
employers accused of hiring illegal immigrants. The suit was an effort to recoup
money the county says it has spent on the workers, but the judge said the
county's claimed higher expenses for social services were simply the costs of
being a government entity. The suit was the first time a government has tried to
use the federal Racketeering and Corrupt Organizations Act to demand damages
from businesses for the costs of illegal employees. Canyon County filed the
lawsuit in July against four businesses: Syngenta Seeds, Sorrento Lactalis,
Swift Beef and Harris Moran Seed, and against the former director of the
nonprofit Idaho Migrant Council.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Leader Condemns U.S. For Migrant Bill Passed by House

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 19


Furious about a tough immigration bill passed Friday by the United States House
of Representatives, President Vicente Fox spent the weekend publicly condemning
the measure. He repeatedly described it as a ''shameful'' setback in bilateral
relations and as a troubling reflection of America's willingness to tolerate
''xenophobic groups that impose the law at will.''

''To us, what has been decided in the United States Congress is a terrible sign
that does not speak well of a country that calls itself democratic, and does not
speak well for a country that calls itself a country of migrants,'' Mr. Fox said
Sunday during a ceremony celebrating the International Day of the Migrant in his
home state of Guanajuato. ''The entire population of the United States, when we
look at its roots, the immense majority of people are migrants who have come
from all the world, and have built that great nation.''

''That is why we do not understand this step toward building walls,'' he added,
''to sending more police and soldiers to the border, to being tolerant toward
xenophobic groups that want to impose the law at will.''

The bill requires mandatory detention of many illegal immigrants, stiffer
penalties for employers who hire them and a broadening of the
immigrant-smuggling statute to include employees of social service agencies and
church groups that offer services to undocumented workers. It also mandates
building five fences along 700 miles of the border.

Although many political analysts have expressed doubt that the Senate will
approve the measure, its swift passage by the Republican-controlled House was a
devastating blow to Mr. Fox, who has devoted much of his foreign policy effort
to winning some kind of legal status for millions of undocumented Mexicans
working in the United States.

Ruben Aguilar, a spokesman for Mr. Fox, said Mexico had trusted President Bush
to wangle support from the most conservative sectors of the Republican Party for
a more comprehensive migration bill that would expand guest worker programs. As
a result, Mr. Aguilar said, Mr. Fox felt ''deeply disappointed,'' by the bill
adopted by the House.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cheap Border Politics

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 317 words


President Vicente Fox of Mexico has said it best: the immigration bill passed
last week by the House of Representatives is ''shameful'' --a reflection of the
power of xenophobic politicians who want to fence in America, lock up illegal
immigrants and send them back where they came from.

This shortsighted approach to the nation's growing immigration problem will not
work. Cracking down on immigrants and their employers will succeed only as part
of a comprehensive solution that includes a guest worker program and some path
to longer-term legal status for those who are already here. The House bill,
sponsored by James Sensenbrenner, Republican of Wisconsin, and Peter King,
Republican of New York, is just about ''playing to the cheap seats,'' as
Representative Howard Berman, a California Democrat, put it.

The only real hope is for the Senate to counter with a real package that deals
with the whole complex problem, and the best starting point so far is the reform
proposed by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Edward Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts.

But that kind of bill-making takes time, and Republican leaders in the House
have apparently decided that anti-immigration will be a good theme for them in
the 2006 elections. Indeed, there are polls that show most Americans are
concerned about 11 million illegal immigrants. But bashing the people who take
the hardest construction work or the dirtiest jobs cleaning hotels or changing
diapers for middle America is not just inhumane. It could backfire, especially
with Hispanic voters who might sense an undercurrent of racism in the
keep-them-out talk. In a recent race in Virginia, the anti-immigration candidate
lost.

Senators and President Bush must make certain this issue is at the top of their
agenda early next year so that we don't face what is sure to be an ugly debate
on immigration in the midterm elections.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Mexico: U.S. Inquiry Urged In New Shooting

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 99 words


Mexico has demanded an investigation by the United States into the fatal
shooting of an unarmed illegal immigrant, Ismael Segura Mendez, by a Texas state
trooper four days ago. Mexico is already angry at the shooting death of another
unarmed migrant two weeks, Guillermo Martinez, 18, who was shot by a United
States Border Patrol agent as he tried to sneak across the border near San
Diego. Mr. Segura, 23, was shot after he scuffled with two troopers trying to
arrest him on charges of drunken driving, a spokesman for the Texas Department
of Public Safety said.   JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

WHAT'S ON TONIGHT

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 6; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 390 words



8:15 P.M. (IFC) DIRTY PRETTY THINGS (2002). This simultaneously hard-hitting and
poignant drama about illegal immigrants in London stars Chiwetel Ejiofor as a
Nigerian doctor who now drives a taxi and works at a hotel's front desk. It is
on the second job that he discovers a human-organs-for-passports black market
and is lured into it. Audrey Tautou (above, with Mr. Ejiofor), looking and
behaving very unlike the cheerful ingenue she portrayed in ''Amelie,'' plays a
maid at the hotel. Also an illegal alien, she has a dream about New York but big
problems with immigration officials.



8 P.M. (NBC) 2006 OLYMPIC WINTER GAMES -- Tonight's events, tape-delayed from
Turin, Italy, are the figure skating (the gala exhibition), Alpine skiing
(women's giant slalom), bobsled (four-man) and speedskating (men's
10,000-meter).

8 P.M. (ABC) AMERICA'S FUNNIEST HOME VIDEOS -- Three times a year, this
longrunning series gives away $100,000 to the viewer who has submitted the most
hilarious video in recent months. Tonight's two-hour special is one of those
times. A montage of musical videos -- some involving dogs, cats, amusement parks
and unintentionally funny marriage proposals -- is also promised.

9 P.M. (11) REBA -- James Denton (right), who plays Mike the sensitive plumber
on ''Desperate Housewives,'' moves up the professional ladder tonight. He
gueststars as a doctor with a romantic interest in Reba (Reba McEntire). But
he's just the tiniest bit married.

9 P.M. (Sci Fi) STARGATE ATLANTIS -- There's one way to solve the problem of the
Wraith, the vampirish, zombieish alien race: turn them all into humans. Hey,
here's a vaccine that might work.

9 P.M. (Comedy Central) COMEDY CENTRAL PRESENTS -- DeRay, who won Comedy
Central's 2000 Laugh Riots competition, does a half-hour of standup.

9:30 P.M. (CMT) AMERICAN REVOLUTIONS: SOUTHERN ROCK -- That means, among others,
Lynyrd Skynyrd, the Allman Brothers Band, the Marshall Tucker Band, Wet Willie
and Charlie Daniels (left).

12:30 A.M. (TCM) A SONG TO REMEMBER (1945). Cornel Wilde stars as the
18th-century Polish composer Frederic Chopin; Merle Oberon plays George Sand,
the novelist who was his lover in Paris; and Paul Muni is Joseph Elsner,
Chopin's teacher and mentor. Historical accuracy isn't the film's strong suit,
but the music comes very close to making up for that.   ANITA GATES

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2006



CORRECTION: A television highlight entry in Weekend on Friday for a 1945 film
about Chopin, ''A Song to Remember,'' misstated the century in which he lived.
It was the 19th, not the 18th.

A television highlight entry in Weekend on Friday for a 1945 film about Chopin,
''A Song to Remember,'' misstated the century in which he lived. It was the
19th, not the 18th.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Laurie Sparham/Miramax Films)
(Photo by David J. Phillip/Associated Press)
 (Photo by David Livingston/Getty Images)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Wrong Path on Immigration

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 608 words


One unhappy result of the federal government's inability to solve the puzzle of
illegal immigration is that platoons of state and local officials and zealous
private citizens are off hunting for answers on their own, with predictable
scattershot results. In some places, local leaders have distinguished themselves
with realistic policies that appeal to dignity and common sense. Then there is
Long Island, where recent developments on the immigration front may only help to
validate people's worst opinions of it as a nesting place for insularity and
fearfulness.

Long Island's touchy reputation about newcomers stems not just from the
anti-Latino violence in Farmingville, or from the presence of the Minuteman
Project, the border posse that recently held a recruiting drive in Babylon and
whose No. 1 and 2 leaders in New York State are from Long Island.

It's also the fact that two of the most prominent hard-line voices on
immigration belong to Long Islanders: Representative Peter King and the Suffolk
county executive, Steve Levy. Mr. King co-sponsored a punitive House bill that
set the worst possible tone for constructive discussion of the issue; one
provision seeks to squelch the impulse to help illegal workers by making such
charity a crime.

Mr. Levy is as smart and competent as local leaders come, but where immigrants
are concerned, he remains stuck in a cul-de-sac of misguided nativism. From his
plan to turn the county police into immigration enforcers to the ill-planned
housing raids on boarding houses in Farmingville, he has repeatedly avoided
putting his energy to good use on this issue, choosing always to be tough
instead of smart.

The latest opportunity was missed last week, when Mr. Levy met in Washington
with other members of Mayors and Executives for Immigration Reform, an
organization Mr. Levy founded with the mayor of Danbury, Conn., to press the
federal government to reimburse localities for the costs imposed by growing
numbers of illegal immigrants.

Mr. Levy is absolutely right to say that local communities suffer from federal
inaction. But any thought that this ''summit meeting'' would go beyond
support-group bromides was belied by the guest list -- invited groups included
the Federation for American Immigration Reform and the Center for Immigration
Studies, hard-line backers of strict immigration limits -- and the
impracticality of its manifesto. The group insists that Congress develop plans
that ''in chronological order'': 1) secure the border, 2) enforce immigration
laws and 3) reimburse local communities ''for the cost of hosting so many
undocumented people.''

It is absurd to make airtight borders a precondition of any other reform, and
wrong not to add at least two other priorities to Congress's to-do list: 4)
create a guest-worker program with enough visas to meet labor demand and 5) give
people already here a path to legal status and citizenship.

A Brookings Institution study has confirmed what has been known for decades:
immigration has changed the face of the New York region, and the age of the
white majority is about to end. Long Island needs to decide how it will handle
that transition. It can follow the example of Thomas Suozzi, the Nassau
executive, who set up one of the first day-labor hiring sites in the Northeast,
or Paul Tonna, a former Suffolk legislator who volunteers ferrying homeless
Latinos to shelter in local churches.

It can fight the impulse to scurry into the three-bedroom colonial and throw the
deadbolt on the golden door. Or it can fall into the well-trodden rut worn by
its white-flight pioneers, behind the banner of Mr. Levy and Mr. King.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Of Insanity

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 730 words


This is a special edition of ''Lou Dobbs Tonight,'' news, debate and opinion.
Live from Pyongyang, North Korea, Lou Dobbs:

Good evening from North Korea. We had to go halfway around the world, but we've
finally got good news for the working men and women of America angry about
illegal immigration. Tonight you'll hear our exclusive report from the nation
that proudly calls itself the Hermit Kingdom.

But first, more bad news from Washington. Despite my personal trip to Cancun for
last week's summit meeting, President Bush remains hostage to foreign interests.
My soaring ratings apparently mean nothing to the White House or the Senate
Republicans working on an amnesty plan for the illegal immigrants now carrying
Mexican flags through our streets.

Tonight's poll question deals with those protesters and where they get their
money. As these reconquistadors plot to make California a province of Mexico,
have they made a secret deal to turn the Los Angeles port over to an Arab
company? Cast your votes at loudobbs.com. We'll have your answers later.

A report out today refutes the claims that the American economy benefits from
immigration and free trade. If you're a regular viewer, you already know that's
a myth. But maybe these figures will knock the rose-colored glasses off a few
so-called mainstream economists. The new report, from the Minutemen Institute of
Research Study Analysis, shows that previous cost-benefit estimates ignored
three crucial factors:

Since Nafta opened the border, the importing of cheap tortilla chips has
worsened America's obesity epidemic by 475 million pounds.

Intermarriage between immigrants and natives is expected to reduce the projected
height of the average future worker, leading to a 2.4 percent decrease in
earning potential.

Americans lose 38.7 billion minutes of productive work time per decade sitting
through telephone instructions to ''dial 2 for Spanish.''

Add in those costs, and the net loss to the American economy is $4.3 trillion. I
can't say it often enough: there's nothing free about free trade.

No one understands that better than our hosts here in North Korea, the world's
most economically independent nation. They know the hazards of foreign labor and
foreign goods. ''Buy North Korean'' is more than a slogan here. Outsourcing is
outlawed.

How do they stay strong? Let's find out from the North Korean military leader in
charge of border security. Thank you for joining us, General ---- excuse me,
could you pronounce your name for our viewers?

No.

No?

That is an internal matter.

Ah. Let's talk about something that's no secret: the difference between our
borders. Hundreds of thousands of Mexicans annually sneak into the U.S. How many
people make it up here across your southern border each year?

Approximately zero.

I can believe it. I sure didn't see any South Korean flags on the streets today.
We got nothing but blank looks when we asked for the hiring spot for foreign
laborers. What's stopping them? Is the whole border fenced?

There are two fences across the Demilitarized Zone. Also thousands of artillery
systems and land mines.

I wish you could brief President Vicente Fox of Mexico and members of Congress.
I bet they've never thought of land mines -- well, maybe Tom Tancredo has. And
you also have 700,000 border agents?

The number of troops is classified.

But the point is, the message that our defeatists at home need to hear, is that
with enough determination, you can seal the border. Nobody's digging tunnels
under your fences, right?

Actually, a few have dug tunnels.

But you said that there have been virtually no crossings.

In this direction. Some of our citizens have fled south.

But what they could be looking for? You've got a self-sufficient economy.

These are isolated cases of mental delusion. They believe tales of places where
workers own personal telephones and bicycles -- even cars. [Laughs.]
Fortunately, we apprehend most of them.

Well, the next time you catch one, I've got something you can share with him.
I'd like to present you with a copy of my book ''Exporting America.''

A foreign book? No, thank you.

A man of principle. I respect that, General.

Up next, a tour of Pyongyang's finest restaurants, where you won't find any
enchiladas -- or Mexican busboys. Stay tuned as we bust the myth that there are
some jobs North Koreans won't do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Paul Krugman)

                             March 27, 2006 Monday

Making Immigration Good for America

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 731 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers respond to Paul Krugman&#8217;s Mar. 27 column, &#8220;North
of the Border&#8220; Ed Szewczyk, Granite City, Ill.: Thank you very much for
pointing out what balderdash it is for people to say that illegal immigrants do
the jobs that Americans won&#8217;t do. I want to yell at the television screen
every time I hear someone [&#8230;]


Readers respond to Paul Krugman's Mar. 27 column, "North of the Border"

Ed Szewczyk, Granite City, Ill.: Thank you very much for pointing out what
balderdash it is for people to say that illegal immigrants do the jobs that
Americans won't do. I want to yell at the television screen every time I hear
someone make that claim without any challenge. I think Bush and his obscenely
rich voter base would love to have a permanent underclass of disenfranchised
workers to help depress American wages. Wasn't NAFTA supposed to cure the
problem of Mexican illegal immigrants? It appears that NAFTA has simply
permitted multinational corporations to pay much lower wages, which are kept
that way by a dictatorial investor class in Mexico.

Ben Lerner, Palo Alto, Calif.: Thank you for your editorial "North of the
Border." I have long thought many of the same things and appreciate your good
sense on this issue.

I would like to add, though, that while the average American's wage hasn't risen
much due to immigration over the time period you cite, the wealthy have done
extremely well, suggesting that the majority have lost ground during that time.
This would include the middle class, which pays much of the social costs of the
rising underclass, and not just the poor.

In saying that immigrants' taxes don't cover their social services, I feel you
left off in a way that can be seen as blaming immigrants for this situation.
The solution I've long felt is necessary is this: set a wage floor based on
regional cost of living, so that immigrants -and, for that matter, all workers -
earn enough to support themselves and their families and to generate enough in
taxes to pay their own ways.  This would shift the cost for their support to
their employers, where it belongs.  Today, while employers receive the full
benefit of the low-wage labor they hire, the taxpayers - i.e. the middle class -
pay the social costs, essentially subsidizing those employers.

I strongly suspect that if employers were required to bear in full the costs of
their labor force by paying realistic living wages, our labor shortage would
soon disappear.

Vickie, Washington, D.C.: I always appreciate your insights on current events.
I wanted to ask you more about the economic impact of illegal immigration.  I
think you mentioned in your column that illegal immigrants don't contribute
enough taxes to offset their costs to U.S. systems.  How would you quantify
this?  My gut sense is that they get low hourly wages that are taxed but that,
because of their status, they can't get any rebate they may qualify for after
they file.

How would you balance immigration with free market economics and free trade?

You mentioned that you would recommend putting a stop to the influx of unskilled
workers.  Does that mean you would open the doors to highly skilled ones?  This
particular point is of special interest to me.  My husband and I are here on H
visas.  He works for a non-profit.  I consider myself highly trained in
education but am not allowed to work unless I am sponsored by an employer.  Yet
the hurdles I have to overcome if I want to work - and I do - are pretty high
and very expensive as well: consulting lawyers, paying for the INS fees, etc.
This system I know protects the jobs of Americans with similar qualifications.
But, looking at the larger picture, it seems this country only welcomes people
who are super-successful M.B.A.'s, doctors or lawyers who can afford to overcome
these hurdles - or, looking at the influx of foreign nurses and caregivers,
those who are skilled in areas too few Americans are trained for.

Paul Krugman: My reading of the research on this is that the legality of
immigrants isn't as big an issue as you might think for tax purposes; even
illegals pay taxes, for the most part. The point instead is that a low-skill,
low-wage worker, wherever that worker was born, will on average receive more
benefits than he or she pays in taxes. There's nothing wrong with that - on the
contrary, it's the way a just society should work - but it means that low-skill
immigrants place some burden on our system.

The picture is much different for high-skill immigrants. By any criterion I can
think of, the large numbers of South Asians - mostly engineers and other
high-skill professions - buying houses in West Windsor, N.J., just down the road
from me, are a net plus for America.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2006 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Bills' Small Print, Critics See a Threat to Immigration

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 24


A little-noticed provision in two key Senate immigration bills would reshape the
handling of immigration appeals cases and has touched off an outcry from several
legal scholars, federal judges and the policy-making group for the federal
courts.

The measure would designate the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit here, an administrative court that focuses primarily on patent cases and
currently handles no immigration appeals, as the only court in the nation to
handle immigration appeals. Such appeals are currently shared by the 12 other
federal appellate courts.

The judges and scholars say that the circuit court in Washington, which handles
about 1,500 nonimmigration cases a year, would be swamped by an additional
12,000 immigration cases. And they say that the court lacks the expertise to
handle complex immigration cases, which often raise a host of constitutional and
human-rights issues.

The question of how these cases are handled is particularly sensitive because
federal appeals judges have sharply criticized what they have described as a
pattern of biased and incoherent decisions from immigration judges in asylum
cases, which make up the bulk of immigration appeals.

The two bills -- one by Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, the other by Senator Bill Frist,
Republican of Tennessee and the majority leader -- were intended in part to ease
the burden on the nation's federal appeals courts, which have had a sharp
increase in immigration cases. The provisions may come up for a vote in the
Senate as early as next week.

Judiciary Committee staff members said that designating a single court to handle
the cases would ensure a consistent standard for immigration decisions and
discourage immigrants from shopping for favorable courts. They said that
immigration lawyers would also be assigned to the court to help enhance
expertise and that the number of judges would be increased to 15 from 12.

''You're trying to avoid forum shopping and trying to create a uniform national
policy for immigration,'' said a senior aide to Mr. Specter who spoke on
condition of anonymity because details of the legislation were still being
negotiated.

But Richard A. Posner, a prominent federal appeals judge in Chicago, said the
measures were ''not a sound solution.''

Even with the three additional judges, Judge Posner said, the annual caseload
would surge to 900 per judge from 125.

''I cannot think of an area of law that is more remote from immigration than
patents,'' the judge wrote to Senator Richard J. Durbin, an Illinois Democrat on
the Judiciary Committee. ''No doubt the judges of the federal circuit can become
knowledgeable about immigration law, but they will be overwhelmed by the new
caseload.''

Leonidas Ralph Mecham, secretary for the Judicial Conference of the United
States, a group of judges who make policy for the federal courts and who present
the judiciary's views to Congress, raised similar concerns.

''No sufficient justification to support changing the status quo and shifting
these cases from the regional courts to the Federal Circuit has been provided,''
Mr. Mecham wrote to Mr. Specter.

The judges also raised concerns about a proposal that would appoint a single
judge to decide whether immigration cases were worthy of consideration for
appeal. If the judge declined the case, no further review would be available.

Mr. Durbin said he planned to offer an amendment that would kill the measures,
telling his colleagues on the Judiciary Committee that it would be premature to
make such changes before holding hearings.

But the senior aide to Mr. Specter strongly defended the measure, noting that
the Federal Circuit would have fewer cases than many of the federal appeals
circuits, even with the additional workload. He also pointed out that most of
the Federal Circuit's judges were generalists, not specialists, before they were
appointed.

The surge in immigration appeals occurred after Attorney General John Ashcroft
made changes in 2002 to streamline appellate review within the immigration
courts.

Many appellate judges say those changes essentially shifted work to them.
Immigration cases accounted for about 17 percent of all federal appeals cases
last year, up from 3 percent in 2001. In New York and California, nearly 40
percent of federal appeals involved immigration.

Critics of the new legislation say that shifting appeals to Washington is
misdirected and that a better solution would be to add resources to the
overstrapped local immigration courts and to an interim-level immigration
appeals court, known as the Board of Immigration Appeals. They said proposed
increases in financing were inadequate, leaving immigration judges overburdened
and threatening immigrants' rights to federal review.

''Congress needs to address the virtual collapse of the immigration judge and
appeals system, not deny immigrants a chance to have their day in federal
court,'' said Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's
immigrant rights project.

The American Intellectual Property Law Association, which represents 16,000
lawyers, also objects to the change, saying the caseload increase would hurt the
way patent cases are handled.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Debates Mirror Concerns in Washington

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; John Holl contributed reporting for this article

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 676 words


Hundreds of people attended pro- or anti-immigration rallies in the New York
area yesterday, the latest in a nationwide series of demonstrations held as
Congress debates legislation that would substantially revamp the country's
immigration laws.

The rallies, held in Manhattan and Queens, and in Bogota, N.J., were mostly
modest affairs. The largest was in Queens, where organizers estimated that a few
hundred people gathered at a meeting in Jackson Heights billed as a ''dialogue
with elected leaders.''

In New Jersey, the group United Patriots of America drew about 45 people to
discuss what one participant called the ''immigration anarchy'' within the
United States. And in Manhattan, about 75 people outside a federal building
protested current and proposed immigration rules.

''Most Americans have this idea that American immigration laws are very lax,''
said Aarti Shahani, a co-founder of Families for Freedom, the group that
organized the Manhattan rally. ''But they're really very tough, and are about to
get worse.''

Many in attendance, she said, were women and children whose fathers, brothers or
sons had been convicted of felonies and faced deportation under existing
immigration laws.

Anna Prainito, 26, kept her two young boys close as she explained how her
husband, Francesco, 33, was convicted on assault charges in 2002. She said that
immigration authorities were seeking to deport him once his prison term ended in
October.

''For certain people, that might make sense,'' said Ms. Prainito. ''But they
need to look at the family. He has two kids and a citizen wife, he's a business
owner, he's a taxpayer. He never had any other record.''

Others expressed more worry about legislation recently approved by the House of
Representatives. The bill, known as Border Protection, Antiterrorism and Illegal
Immigration Control Act, would make it a crime -- rather than a civil violation
-- to be in the United States without proper documentation.

Detractors also say it would expand the definition of criminal ''alien
smuggling'' so broadly as to so ensnare churches, schools, and social service
organizations aware that an individual is in the country illegally.

''I'm sure that some of my kids are undocumented,'' said Rachel Cole, 27, who
teaches the seventh grade in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. ''But I want them to be
learning math, not getting jailed as felons. I also don't want their parents to
worry that I will be forced to inform on them.''

All told, yesterday's protests -- and similar demonstrations taking place late
last week in Los Angeles, Phoenix and other cities where high levels of illegal
immigration are a fact of life -- mirrored the debates in Washington. If the two
sides had anything in common, it was their dissatisfaction with the proposals,
which many who favor stricter rules have deemed too lax and immigration
advocates say are draconian.

John Liu, a member of the New York City Council and a strong proponent of easing
immigration rules, urged the crowd in Manhattan to send ''a strong message to
Washington that we need to keep our families united.''

A different perspective was on display at the New Jersey meeting, held at a
Veterans of Foreign Wars meeting hall in Bogota, where attendees were on guard
against any suggestion that their opposition to immigration carried a whiff of
chauvinism.

''It doesn't make you racist to speak out for lower immigration,'' said Jim
Geist of Hewitt, N.J., who like others there bemoaned what he said was the loss
of American jobs to illegal workers and the negative economic impact bought on
by illegal immigrants.

Bogota Mayor Steve Lonegan, said: ''I think the future of our country is at
stake, our way of life is at stake, and our security is at stake. I think this
is a fight worth fighting.''

The meeting also drew a counter-protest, staged by a group called Residents
Against Racism and drawing about 30 people.

'''People want to provide for their families, give them food, and the best life
possible,'' said Mauro Camporeale, 28, from Carlstadt, N.J.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua James, 8, whose father, Calvin, is in Jamaica, spoke
yesterday at a demonstration in Manhattan against the deportation of immigrants.
(Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 162 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Bill to Broaden Immigration Law Gains in Senate'' (front page, March 28):


Give me your tired, your poor,

Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,

The wretched refuse of your teeming shore,

Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me:

I lift my lamp beside the golden door.
   (Emma Lazarus)

  We are, and always have been, a nation of immigrants. On balance, those who
come to this country have contributed far more than they have taken from it, and
they bring with them the forces of change that cause us to grow as individuals,
communities and a nation.

While we struggle with the problem of finding a just solution of controlling our
borders, it might be helpful to try to put ourselves in the shoes of those who
have immigrated to our shores.

Like us, they must accept the challenges of daily life. Unlike us, they must
learn a new language, adapt to new customs and deal with our bias.

Charles R. Cronin Jr.
Lawrence, N.Y., March 28, 2006


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Hoppe)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands Rally in New York in Support of Immigrants' Rights

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Janon Fisher and John Holl contributed reporting
for this article.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 757 words


Thousands of people marched from Brooklyn to Lower Manhattan yesterday in
support of immigrants' rights, the largest such rally so far in the New York
area and the latest in a string of marches tied to immigration legislation under
consideration in Congress.

The New York rally came a week after more than a half-million people
demonstrated in Los Angeles, and after weeks of protests in cities from Chicago
to Denver to Phoenix.

''There is no victory yet,'' said Angelica M. Pena, a spokeswoman for the
International Immigrants Foundation, one of the lead organizers for yesterday's
event. ''We have many more changes we need to get. We have to fight.''

On a balmy spring Saturday, some wrapped themselves in the flags of a score of
foreign nations, others waved the Stars and Stripes over their heads, and many
did both. Some sang ''God Bless America,'' while others chanted pro-immigration
slogans in Spanish. Many pushed along strollers carrying their American-born
children, living symbols of the dual identities that have made the debate over
illegal immigration so charged.

''We came here because we love America and we want to stay here,'' said Liliana
Melgarejo, 31, who immigrated from Argentina 13 years ago and works in Manhattan
as a housekeeper. She said she and her husband had two children, both born in
the United States. ''My children are American. I love my country, too, but there
is no future there. Here, they can be a doctor, anything.''

Ms. Melgarejo, who carried an American flag, also weighed in on the presence of
foreign flags at yesterday's march and at others across the country, something
that critics have seized upon as a symbol of recent immigrants' unwillingness to
fully embrace their adopted country.

''That is not the message we want to send,'' she said. ''I feel that they should
take the biggest American flag they can find and wave it in the air.''

The crowd of thousands, mostly Hispanic, gathered near Brooklyn Borough Hall, by
midmorning. Over the next three hours, they crossed the Brooklyn Bridge,
spanning neighborhoods that were home to successive waves of European and Asian
immigrants, and took in views of the Statue of Liberty. By noon, the bridge was
jammed. Those who came across spilled onto Centre Street and massed in Foley
Square, where immigration advocates, members of the clergy and elected officials
mounted a small stage to speak to the crowd. By 2:00 p.m., the square and the
surrounding streets were packed with people.

United States Representative Nydia Velazquez, Democrat of New York, came on
stage chanting, ''Si, se puede!,'' the old farm workers' cry meaning ''Yes, we
can!'' She took aim at the Republican Party's stance on immigration issues. ''We
should not be in the business of criminalizing undocumented immigrants.''

Thomas Suozzi, the Nassau County executive and a candidate for governor, tried
out his own Spanish skills in front of the crowd.

''My father was born in Italy and came to the United States as a young boy to
live the American dream like all the people here today are,'' he said. ''So I
say, justicia para todos. Justice for all.''

Adolfo Carrion Jr., the Bronx borough president, also spoke, as did Congressman
Anthony Weiner of New York and State Senator Ruben Diaz Sr., a Puerto Rican
native and another of the key organizers of the march.

In Newark, about 300 students, union members and immigration activists marched
to a church yard near City Hall for an hourlong training rally.

Marching from Essex County College, the crowd chanted, ''No justice, no peace,''
and ''Immigrants united will never be divided,'' cries that were echoed a few
miles away in Lower Manhattan.

Many at the Brooklyn Bridge protest appeared acutely aware of the details of
different immigration legislation being debated in Washington, and some made
clear that they regarded certain proposals as direct assaults on them.

''They want to make it illegal to support immigrants,'' said Hector Marrero, 27,
referring to legislation approved by the House of Representatives that critics
say would criminalize any aid offered to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Marrero, who was born in Puerto Rico, also criticized the bill's defenders
for saying it was intended to bolster homeland security. ''How many Latinos have
committed terrorist acts?'' he asked.

Near the middle of the bridge, an elderly man did a brisk business in small
American flags, $2 each. Asked how many he had sold, the man replied that he
could not answer.

''I don't speak English,'' he said haltingly.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rally in New York yesterday against proposed changes in
immigration policy was one of the largest so far, and the latest in a string of
protests. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latinos Protest in California In Latest Immigration March

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: COSTA MESA, Calif., April 1


Capping a week of demonstrations in Southern California in support of
immigrants, more than 1,000 people marched here on Saturday to send a message,
chanted over and over by the mostly Latino protesters: ''We are here, and we are
not going anywhere.''

At its peak, the protest appeared to draw about 2,000 people, organizers said,
but the police estimated that there were 1,000 to 1,500. The crowd was a far cry
from the several thousand that organizers had hoped for, and from the estimated
500,000 to one million who descended on downtown Los Angeles last weekend for an
immigrants' rights march.

This demonstration was not as heavily promoted, and a burst of rain in the
morning may have kept the numbers down.

''We think this is a good follow to the March 25 demonstration, and it is on the
way to May 1, which will be a day without immigrants working, shopping or going
to school nationwide,'' said Nativo Lopez, president of the Mexican American
Political Association, the main organizer of the protest here.

This quiet suburb 40 miles south of Los Angeles may seem an unlikely site for
such a protest. But demonstrators chose Costa Mesa because late last year the
City Council authorized its police officers to be trained by the federal
government to enforce some immigration laws.

Officers would be told how to check the legal status of suspected violent felons
and turn them over to federal immigration agents, regardless of whether the
suspects had been convicted of crimes.

Mayor Allan Mansoor has said the plan, pending federal approval, would help keep
down crime and fill a gap in immigration enforcement. But critics say the policy
was meant to harass Latinos, whose numbers have grown rapidly in this
predominantly white city.

''People have to learn to respect Mexicans, to respect immigrants and the work
we do here,'' said Elias Abundis, 42, a legal resident from Riverside who
marched with his young daughter. ''I have many family members here illegally,
and they are here just to work, nothing more.''

Peacefully and orderly, the demonstrators massed in a parking lot in front of
City Hall and occasionally marched into the street, accompanied by raucous
drums, whistles and chanting. They obeyed police lines, and no arrests were
reported. A smattering of counterdemonstrators stood across the street,
occasionally exchanging taunts with the protesters, but the overall atmosphere
was more street fair than civil strife.

It came during a week that, in addition to the Los Angeles rally, included
hundreds of middle school and high school students staging walkouts across
California. In recent weeks, protesters also took to the streets in several
other cities, including Chicago, Phoenix and Houston.

The demonstrators, who promise more rallies, have taken aim at Congress, where
the House has passed a bill that would make it a felony to be in the country
illegally and make it a crime to aid illegal immigrants. A Senate bill takes a
different approach, offering illegal immigrants new ways to gain citizenship.

An illegal immigrant who gave his name as Javier said he had lived in Costa Mesa
for five years, working mostly in construction, and had supported more than a
dozen relatives in Jalisco, Mexico.

''All the good-paying jobs are here, and so I am here,'' he said, waving both
American and Mexican flags.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rally yesterday in Costa Mesa, Calif., in support of
immigrants. The city wants its police officers to be trained to enforce
immigration laws. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration's Moment

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 565 words


This is a pivotal week in the search for answers for the nation's immigration
problems. The Senate Judiciary Committee resumes debate today over a bill whose
design and fate could determine whether Congress finally achieves comprehensive,
workable immigration reform or adds to decades of failure.

The Senate's role is crucial because the House has already passed its bill, a
punitive measure that seeks to stem the immigrant tide without offering the
other half of a true solution: a constructive approach to the estimated 12
million people who are already here illegally. Since the House bill would make
being here without papers an aggravated felony, would turn people who extend
charity to illegal immigrants into ''alien smugglers'' and would grant state and
local police officers the ''inherent authority'' to enforce immigration laws,
the authors presumably want to rouse the country to seek out and deport every
last unauthorized person.

Nothing in past experience suggests that such an effort is possible, or that it
would accomplish anything beyond making millions of people shrink further from
the sunlight of lawfulness and order, and giving the bill's sponsors the
transient illusion that the United States is a mighty fortress unto itself.

The Judiciary Committee is under pressure from the Senate majority leader, Bill
Frist, to complete a bill by the end of the month. Its chairman, Arlen Specter,
is trying to walk a tightrope between the hard-core restrictionists and those
who favor real reform. Senator Specter has shaped an unsatisfactory compromise:
a program that would not build in a path to citizenship. It would create a hired
army of permanently temporary workers, who would be free to take our most
strenuous and unwanted jobs but not to integrate into society.

The bill would not explicitly bar those with temporary work visas from pursuing
the existing paths to citizenship, but since the number of green cards would not
appreciably increase, their path to citizenship would effectively be blocked.
Mr. Specter's bill would not create a two-tiered society with a permanent
underclass; it would merely enshrine the phenomenon in law.

One sign of this country's self-confidence and strength has been its ability to
welcome and absorb the people who want to make new lives here. Senators John
McCain and Edward Kennedy, recognizing this, have offered a bill that would
provide a path to earned legalization for those who put down roots, learn
English, keep their records clean and pay back taxes and steep fines.

Mr. Specter and his committee colleagues should follow the McCain-Kennedy
example in creating a comprehensive immigration bill, one that acknowledges that
permanent guest workers, while important, are no substitute for immigrant
citizens who work their way up to better jobs, pay more taxes, buy houses and
consumer goods, and otherwise strengthen the social fabric.

If the committee needs more time to do this, Mr. Specter should insist that Mr.
Frist ease up on his deadline. President Bush, meanwhile, should show leadership
in pushing for sensible and humane program for temporary workers. He should
rediscover his election-season enthusiasm for his vision of America as a land of
opportunity ''para todos,'' for all. And the rest of us need to decide where we
want to live: in a shining city on a hill, or a gated community in a cul-de-sac.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Irish Face On the Cause Of Citizenship

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Matthew Sweeney contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words


Rory Dolan's, a restaurant in Yonkers, was packed with hundreds of illegal Irish
immigrants on that rainy Friday night in January when the Irish Lobby for
Immigration Reform called its first meeting. Niall O'Dowd, the chairman, soon
had them cheering.

''You're not just some guy or some woman in the Bronx, you're part of a
movement,'' Mr. O'Dowd told the crowd of construction workers, students and
nannies. He was urging them to support a piece of Senate legislation that would
let them work legally toward citizenship, rather than punishing them with prison
time, as competing bills would.

For months, coalitions of Latino, Asian and African immigrants from 50 countries
have been championing the same measure with scant attention, even from New
York's Democratic senators. But the Irish struck out on their own six weeks ago,
and as so often before in the history of American immigration policy, they have
landed center stage.

Last week, when Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer declared
their support for a new path to citizenship, and denounced criminal penalties
recently passed by the House of Representatives, they did so not at the large,
predominantly Hispanic immigrant march on Washington, but at the much smaller
Irish rally held there the following day.

Some in the immigrant coalitions resent being passed over, and worry that the
Irish are angling for a separate deal. Others welcome the clout and razzmatazz
the Irish bring to a beleaguered cause. And both groups can point to an
extraordinary Irish track record of lobbying triumphs, like the creation of
thousands of special visas in the 1980's and 90's that one historian of
immigration, Roger Daniels, calls ''affirmative action for white Europeans.''

Mainly, though, they marvel at the bipartisan muscle and positive spin the
illegal Irish can still muster, even as their numbers dwindle to perhaps 25,000
to 50,000 across the country -- those left behind by a tide of return migration
to a now-prosperous Ireland.

This week, as the Senate Judiciary Committee wrestles with a comprehensive
immigration bill, towns across the country are preparing to celebrate their
Irish roots. On Friday, St. Patrick's Day, President Bush is to meet with
Ireland's prime minister, Bertie Ahern, who has vowed to put the legalization of
the Irish at the top of his agenda. And Irish Lobby volunteers are ready to
leverage the attention, with ''Legalize the Irish'' T-shirts and pressure on
senators like Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, who is in a tight race
against Bob Casey Jr., a Democrat of Irish ancestry.

The new Irish dynamic is all the more striking because the Republican Party is
fiercely split over immigration, and many Democrats have hung back from the
fray, judging the issue too hot to handle in an election year.

''They're still good at the game,'' said Linda Dowling Almeida, who teaches the
history of Irish immigration at New York University. She and other historians
noted that in the mid-19th century, Irish immigrants used the clout of urban
political machines and leadership by the Roman Catholic Church to beat back a
nativist movement that saw them as a threat to national security and American
culture.

More recently, Mr. O'Dowd, the publisher of The Irish Voice, was himself part of
a lobby that leaned on legislators with Irish heritage to engineer more than
48,000 visas for the Irish, legalizing many who had re-greened old Celtic
neighborhoods in New York, Boston and Philadelphia.

But much has changed. After 9/11, a groundswell of anger over illegal
immigration converged with national security concerns, propelling a populist
revolt across party lines. Immigration is now seen as a no-win issue in
electoral politics. And both opponents and supporters of legalization take a
more jaundiced view of the Irish role in the debate.

''They're essentially saying, 'Look, we're good European illegal immigrants,' ''
said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
supports the House and Senate measures that would turn ''unlawful presence,''
now a civil violation, into a crime. ''The reason they've been more successful
is the same reason it appeals to editors -- immigration nostalgia from 150 years
ago.''

He added: ''Can they be bought off by a special program for a handful of
remaining illegals? I'm not saying it's a good idea, but you just start talking
about the old sod and singing 'Danny Boy,' and of course it's possible.''

A special measure for the Irish would be hard to pass today, countered Muzaffar
Chishti, the director of the New York office of Migration Policy Institute, a
nonpartisan research organization that has generally supported immigrant
amnesties. In earlier campaigns, he recalled, an Irish lobby worked with other
immigrant groups, and all won pieces of their agenda.

''It was extremely important for the optics on Capitol Hill,'' Mr. Chishti said.
''The Irish were also very savvy about it at that time. They knew that they
would get some special Irish treatment, but they also wanted to make it look
like they were part of the immigrant coalition.''

Today, the lobby's most crucial role, he said, may be changing the political
calculus of Democrats who have shunned the immigration issue as a no-win choice
between responding to Latinos and looking tough on immigration. Many
Irish-Americans are swing voters, he said, and ''it becomes sort of a tipping
point for the Democratic Party.''

For now, Mr. O'Dowd said, the Irish Lobby's focus is entirely on supporting the
McCain-Kennedy bill, which would allow illegal immigrants who qualify to pay a
$2,000 fine and work toward citizenship. But if no such measure emerges from
Congress, he added, the Irish Lobby will push for any special arrangement it can
get -- ''as will every other ethnic group in the country.''

Special visas for the Irish ''would be brilliant,'' said Valery O'Donnell, a
house cleaner and single mother of 7-year-old twins who was at the Rory Dolan's
meeting, and said she had lived in New York illegally for 13 years. ''There's no
harm in us. We're all out here to work hard.''

But several immigrant advocates in New York said that even the hint of special
treatment for the Irish would inflame the hurt feelings that began in February
when Senator Schumer first spoke out on immigration at an Irish Lobby event in
Woodside, Queens, after declining invitations by veteran immigrant organizations
more representative of an estimated 700,000 illegal immigrants in the state. The
Pew Hispanic Center estimates that 78 percent of the nation's nearly 12 million
illegal immigrants are from Mexico or elsewhere in Latin America.

Spokesmen for the two senators said that their appearances had been determined
only by what fit their schedules, and that their support for immigrants was not
meant for a specific group.

Some immigrant leaders were not convinced. Juan Carlos Ruiz, the coordinator of
the predominantly Hispanic rally of 40,000 held March 7 on Capitol Hill, said
that only one senator had shown up there, without speaking: Richard J. Durbin,
an Illinois Democrat. The next day, Mr. Ruiz said, when he and his 14-year-old
son stopped by the Irish gathering of about 2,400 and realized that the speakers
included Senators Edward M. Kennedy, John McCain, as well as Senators Clinton
and Schumer, his son asked, ''Why didn't the senators come to our rally?''

''I was heartbroken,'' Mr. Ruiz said. ''I needed to explain to him: 'The
immigrants of color, for these senators we are not important enough for them to
make a space in their calendar.' ''

He added: ''The Irish are not at fault. They are suffering the same troubles
that we are. But it is discrimination.''

Monami Maulik, a leader in another coalition, Immigrant Communities in Action,
echoed his sentiment. ''For a lot of us, this is a current civil rights
struggle,'' she said.

But when the phrase was repeated to Mr. O'Dowd, he countered: ''It's not about
that at all. It's about how you change the law.'' For years, he added, he has
lobbied to win nearly lost causes, including helping to broker a ceasefire in
Northern Ireland. ''It's not about being fair, it's about being good,'' he said.
''It's about getting it done.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Niall O'Dowd says the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform will
seek a special arrangement for the Irish if a broad immigration bill fails.
(Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Risking Hispanic Votes On Immigration

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 29


The battle among Republicans over immigration policy and border security is
threatening to undercut a decade-long effort by President Bush and his party to
court Hispanic voters, just as both parties are gearing up for the 2006
elections.

''I believe the Republican Party has hurt itself already,'' said the Rev. Luis
Cortes, a Philadelphia pastor close to President Bush and the leader of a
national organization of Hispanic Protestant clergy members, saying he delivered
that message to the president last week in a meeting at the White House.

To underscore the contested allegiance of Hispanic voters, Mr. Cortes said, he
also took a delegation of Hispanic ministers to meet with the leaders of both
parties last week, including what he called a productive discussion with Howard
Dean, the Democratic chairman.

The immigration and security debate, which has sparked huge demonstrations in
recent days by Hispanic residents of cities around the country, comes at a
crucial moment for both parties.

Over the last three national elections, persistent appeals by Mr. Bush and other
Republican leaders have helped double their party's share of the Hispanic vote,
to more than 40 percent in 2004 from about 20 percent in 1996. As a result,
Democrats can no longer rely on the country's 42 million Hispanic residents as a
natural part of their base.

In a lunch meeting of Senate Republicans this week, Senator Mel Martinez of
Florida, the only Hispanic Republican in the Senate, gave his colleagues a stern
warning. ''This is the first issue that, in my mind, has absolutely galvanized
the Latino community in America like no other,'' Mr. Martinez said he told them.

The anger among Hispanics has continued even as the Senate Judiciary Committee
proposed a bill this week that would allow illegal immigrants a way to become
citizens. The backlash was aggravated, Mr. Martinez said in an interview, by a
Republican plan to crack down on illegal immigrants that the House approved last
year.

The outcome remains to be seen. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said on Wednesday that
he recognized the need for a guest-worker program, opening the door to a
possible compromise on fiercely debated immigration legislation. [Page A22.]

Democrats see an opportunity to ''show Hispanics who their real friends are,''
as Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, put it.

But the issue is a delicate matter for Democrats as well. Polls show large
majorities of the public both support tighter borders as a matter of national
security, and oppose amnesty for illegal immigrants. Many working-class
Democrats resent what they see as a continuing influx of cheap labor.

The stakes are enormous because Hispanics now account for one of every eight
United States residents, and for about half the recent growth in the country's
population. Although Hispanics cast just 6 percent of the votes in the 2004
elections, birth rates promise an imminent explosion in the number of eligible
voters.

''There is a big demographic wave of Hispanic kids who are native born who will
be turning 18 in even greater numbers over the next three, four and five
election cycles,'' Roberto Suro, director of the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic
Center, said.

Nowhere is the immigration debate more heated than Arizona, where about 28
percent of the population is Hispanic and where Senator Jon Kyl, a Republican
sponsor of an immigration bill, faces what could be a difficult race for
re-election. Both Mr. Kyl and his Democratic challenger, Jim Pederson, have
hired Hispanics or Hispanic-dominated firms to manage their campaigns.

A mostly Hispanic crowd of about 20,000 gathered outside Mr. Kyl's office last
weekend to protest criminal penalties against illegal immigrants that were in
the House Republican bill, even though Mr. Kyl's proposal does not include the
measure.

Mario E. Diaz, the campaign manager for Mr. Pederson, faulted Mr. Kyl's
proposal, which would require illegal immigrants or future temporary workers to
return to their countries before becoming eligible for legal status in the
United States.

''Speaking the language that Kyl does, which is round them up and deport them,
is offensive and disgusting to the Latino community,'' Mr. Diaz said.

Mr. Kyl, for his part, accused Democrats of race-baiting by painting all
Republicans as anti-Hispanic, a practice he said most Hispanics resent. But the
senator also acknowledged some fears that the immigration debate could repel
Hispanic voters. He added, ''I would hope that some of our colleagues who don't
have much of a Hispanic population in their states would at least defer to those
of us who do.''

Pollsters from each party say Hispanics, like other groups, typically rank
immigration lower in importance than other issues, especially education. But
they respond strongly when they believe the rhetoric surrounding the debate
demonizes immigrants or Hispanics, as they did when Gov. Pete Wilson of
California, a Republican, backed a 1994 initiative to exclude illegal immigrants
from public schools and services.

Many analysts say the backlash from Hispanics wrecked the California Republican
party for a decade.

As governor of Texas, Mr. Bush opposed such measures, and pushed Republicans to
woo Hispanics.

Last week, Sergio Bendixen, a pollster for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, released a rare multilingual poll in which 76 percent of legal Latin
American immigrants said they believed anti-immigrant sentiment was on the rise.
A majority of immigrants said they believed the immigration debate was unfair
and misinformed.

But Ken Mehlman, chairman of the Republican National Committee, dismissed such
concerns. Mr. Mehlman said the party's image was defined by President Bush, who
supports a temporary-worker program and has repeatedly urged Republicans to
avoid inflammatory rhetoric.

''In an emotional debate like this,'' Mr. Mehlman said, ''people need to lower
their energy and remember that ultimately the goal is something that is
consistent with being a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants.''

Danny Diaz, a spokesman for the Republican Party, said it had pushed ahead on
recruitment of Hispanic candidates and voters. He noted that Mr. Mehlman had
appeared frequently at events with Hispanic groups, hitting classic Republican
themes about lower taxes and traditional values. A particular focus has been
Hispanic churchgoers and pastors like Mr. Cortes, who receives money from Mr.
Bush's religion-based social services initiative.

Democrats say that Mr. Bush's success with Hispanics has not gone unnoticed.
Democratic leaders in Congress have expanded their Spanish-language
communications, and after 2004 the Democratic Party vowed to stop relying on
payments to Hispanic groups and organizations to help turn out Hispanic voters.

''How can you spend your money on get-out-the-vote when you are beginning to
lose your market share?'' Mr. Bendixen said. ''But Democrats had no experience
in campaigning for the hearts and minds of Hispanic voters. They treated them
like black voters who they just needed to get out to the polls.''

Still, both sides say it is the tenor and ultimate outcome of the immigration
debate that may give the Democrats their best opportunity to attract Hispanic
voters.

Senator Martinez, a Cuban immigrant who delivered part of a Senate speech in
Spanish a few months ago, alluded to the nervousness among Hispanics when he was
asked whether he would do the same again in the debate on immigration. ''I am
about to be sent back as it is,'' he said, joking. ''I better be careful.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Mel Martinez, left, Republican of Florida, said the
immigration debate had ''absolutely galvanized the Latino community in
America.'' (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A22)Chart: ''Hispanic
Voters''States where people of Hispanic origin make up more than 10 percent of
the population. Potential battleground states in 2006 elections are in bold.+New
MexicoSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 16.6%Hispanics as a
percentage of state's population, July 2004 -- 43.3%CaliforniaSHARE REGISTERED
TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 6.8Hispanics as a percentage of state's
population, July 2004 -- 34.7+TexasSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004
ELECTIONS -- 9.6Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
34.6+Arizona (Potential Battleground)SHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004
ELECTIONS -- 6.2Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
28.0+NevadaSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 3.6Hispanics as a
percentage of state's population, July 2004 -- 22.8+ColoradoSHARE REGISTERED TO
VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 4.4Hispanics as a percentage of state's
population, July 2004 -- 19.1+Florida (Potential Battleground)SHARE REGISTERED
TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 5.3Hispanics as a percentage of state's
population, July 2004 -- 19.0New YorkSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004
ELECTIONS -- 3.9Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
16.0New Jersey (Potential Battleground)SHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004
ELECTIONS -- 3.8Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
14.9IllinoisSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 2.7Hispanics as a
percentage of state's population, July 2004 -- 14.0ConnecticutSHARE REGISTERED
TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 1.8Hispanics as a percentage of state's
population, July 2004 -- 10.6+UtahSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004
ELECTIONS -- 1.2Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
10.6Rhode Island (Potential Battleground)SHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004
ELECTIONS -- 1.6Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
10.3Hispanic population in other potential battlegrounds in the 2006
electionPennsylvaniaSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS --
0.8%Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
3.8%MichiganSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 0.7Hispanics as a
percentage of state's population, July 2004 -- 3.7+MissouriSHARE REGISTERED TO
VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 0.9Hispanics as a percentage of state's
population, July 2004 -- 2.6+MontanaSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004
ELECTIONS -- 0.6Hispanics as a percentage of state's population, July 2004 --
2.4+OhioSHARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN NOV. 2004 ELECTIONS -- 0.9Hispanics as a
percentage of state's population, July 2004 -- 2.2+ Indicates states won by
President Bush in the 2004 election(Source by Census Bureau)(pg. A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration and Labor

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 183 words



To the Editor:

In ''Fellow Republicans, Open Your Doors'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 17), Linda Chavez makes
a good case for what to do about the political and policy dilemmas of our broken
immigration system.

But in order to work, border security and ''a more generous legal immigration
law with a guest-worker option'' would need the additional ingredient of
effective employer regulation. And that means establishing a reliable way for
employers to verify the legal status of the workers they hire. Better approaches
to work-site enforcement will be the subject of a series of reports that the
Migration Policy Institute will release in early December.

No measure taken alone -- whether employer enforcement, border enforcement, more
legal immigration or a worker program -- is a ''magic bullet.'' But a package
that insists on the rule of law combined with opportunities to meet the nation's
labor needs legally stands the best chance.

Doris Meissner
Washington, Nov. 17, 2005

The writer, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, was commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 1993-2000.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In California, Border Is Focus of an Election

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1009 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 3


With a special election on Tuesday, one of the strongest Republican
Congressional districts in California has become a focal point for national
immigration policy, thanks to a long-shot independent candidate who helped
organize a volunteer border patrol group.

The overwhelming favorite in the race is John Campbell, a Republican state
senator whose politics are well suited to the conservative Orange County
district vacated by another Republican, Christopher Cox. Mr. Cox left the
position after 17 years when President Bush chose him in August to head the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

Mr. Campbell opposes abortion rights and gay marriages. He favors cutting taxes
and reducing federal spending. He supports Mr. Bush's war on terror and
withdrawing troops from Iraq only after Iraqi sovereignty is clearly
established.

And he favors strong enforcement of national immigration laws.

Yet his major challenger, Jim Gilchrist, a maverick Republican turned
independent who was a founder of the patrol group, the Minuteman Project, has
made immigration policy the central theme of his campaign. He has painted Mr.
Campbell as soft on the issue in a strategy to wrest the seat from Republicans
for the first time in nearly 30 years.

''This is the one issue from which all others flow,'' Mr. Gilchrist said,
referring to his view that lax immigration policy creates such statewide and
national concerns as overcrowding in public schools and hospitals and rising
crime rates. ''It's the one issue that puts our future prosperity and security
into jeopardy.''

An October primary sent the top vote getters from each of five parties into a
runoff, winnowing a field of 17. Mr. Campbell won with 45.5 percent of the vote,
short of the majority he needed to avoid a runoff.

Mr. Gilchrist, running unopposed under the American Independent Party banner,
had 14 percent to finish third behind another Republican. And as a measure of
the overwhelming Republican strength of the 48th District, which includes Orange
County and the cities of Tustin, Laguna Beach and Dana Point, the leading
Democrat, Steve Young, finished fourth with just 9 percent. The two others who
advanced, Bea Tiritilli of the Green Party and Bruce Cohen, a Libertarian, each
had 1 percent.

Mr. Gilchrist's finish was a major boon to his cause of stemming the flow of
illegal immigrants into the country. Though his candidacy is considered a long
shot, Mr. Gilchrist said it offered him a larger platform for an issue that is
gaining traction around the country and brings a degree of legitimacy to the
Minuteman Project, in which volunteers patrol the border with Mexico and report
suspicious activity to the authorities.

The project gained support from some members of Congress and condemnation from
others, but Mr. Gilchrist used his new celebrity to build a political
organization, plot his first run for office and make immigration his signature
-- and, Mr. Campbell says, his only -- campaign issue.

Mr. Gilchrist, 56, a former accountant, has persistently campaigned on the need
for stronger enforcement of federal immigration laws, with a particular focus on
people who sneak into the country and the employers who hire them. His focus has
remained so narrow and persistent that Mr. Campbell, 50, who served four years
in the State Assembly before winning a State Senate seat last year, has been
drawn into a continuing debate on immigration with Mr. Gilchrist even though
their views are effectively the same.

''It is a big issue,'' Mr. Campbell said. ''It's not the only issue. But that's
all he talks about.''

As part of his campaign strategy, Mr. Gilchrist has attacked Mr. Campbell for
several votes he made early in his legislative career and for his support of the
Bush administration's proposed guest worker policy for immigrants.

Indeed, Mr. Campbell voted to allow illegal immigrants at state colleges and
universities to pay in-state tuition, which he later said was a mistake. And he
favored a resolution that would have allowed Mexicans to use their government ID
cards for identification purposes in this country. He withdrew his support after
the F.B.I. said it was a bad idea.

Mr. Campbell supports beefing up patrols along California's border, serving as a
statewide co-chairman of a panel promoting the creation of a California Border
Patrol to help enforce federal laws. But unlike Mr. Gilchrist, Mr. Campbell
said, he sees other important issues in the district beyond immigration. ''If
you'd follow me around the district, giving talks and meeting people, I never
lead with immigration,'' he said. ''I lead with the war on terror and Iraq. To
me, they are the most critical things we are dealing with as a nation. Illegal
immigration is not war and peace, and there are a lot of other things I wish we
could talk about more.''

Political experts agree that Mr. Campbell will be hard to beat, owing in part to
the district's deep Republican roots and to the widely held view in California
that running a campaign based on immigration policy is risky business. Gov. Pete
Wilson, a Republican, led such an effort in 1994 with a ballot measure to
exclude illegal immigrants from public services. The measure passed, but a
federal court later declared it unconstitutional and Mr. Wilson and other
Republicans suffered politically.

''Republicans are still smarting from that,'' said Allan Hoffenblum, a
Republican consultant in Los Angeles who is not involved in Tuesday's election.
''Illegal immigration is a very serious issue, but in the debate in California,
neither party has effectively addressed it.''

John J. Pitney Jr., a political science professor at Claremont McKenna College
who previously worked for the Republican National Committee, said the biggest
uncertainty in the election was not whether Mr. Campbell would win but how much
of the vote Mr. Gilchrist would get.

''If it's big,'' Mr. Pitney said, ''that will be a sign that immigration could
be a big issue in 2006, not only in California but across much of the country as
well.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of California highlighting the 48th Congressional District: The
48th District has been in G.O.P. hands for nearly 30 years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 10, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why Are We Losing Our Foreign Students?

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 182 words



To the Editor:

A Dec. 3 editorial leaves the perception that when consular officers overseas
review visa applications, ''denying a visa is the default position.''

In fact, there is no default position, except to abide by and apply our nation's
law. Each application is reviewed individually and decided on its merits. But
American immigration law places the responsibility on applicants for a visitor's
visa to demonstrate that they do not intend to immigrate to the United States.

Consular officers are required to carry out this law, and we provide training,
resources and constant feedback to ensure that they do so in a manner that
reflects the legislative intent of Congress and the interests of the American
people.

Within the parameters defined by American immigration law, the majority of
applicants in all visa categories are successful in applying for a visitor's
visa. During fiscal year 2005, 80 percent of the foreign students who applied
for a visa to study in the United States received one.

Maura Harty
Assistant Secretary of State
for Consular Affairs
Washington, Dec. 7, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 26, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

COURTS CRITICIZE JUDGES' HANDLING OF ASYLUM CASES

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1937 words


Federal appeals court judges around the nation have repeatedly excoriated
immigration judges this year for what they call a pattern of biased and
incoherent decisions in asylum cases.

In one decision last month, Richard A. Posner, a prominent and relatively
conservative federal appeals court judge in Chicago, concluded that ''the
adjudication of these cases at the administrative level has fallen below the
minimum standards of legal justice.''

Similarly, the federal appeals court in Philadelphia said in September that it
had ''time and time again'' been forced to rebuke immigration judges for their
''intemperate and humiliating remarks.'' Citing cases from around the country,
the court wrote of ''a disturbing pattern'' of misconduct in immigration rulings
that sent people back to countries where they had said they would face
persecution.

The harsh criticism may stem in part from a surge in immigration cases before
the federal appeals courts. Immigration cases, most involving asylum seekers,
accounted for about 17 percent of all federal appeals cases last year, up from
just 3 percent in 2001. In the courts in New York and California, nearly 40
percent of federal appeals involved immigration cases.

The increase occurred after Attorney General John Ashcroft made changes in 2002
to streamline appellate review within the immigration courts, which are part of
the Justice Department.

Many federal appeals court judges say those changes essentially shifted work to
their courts. The Justice Department counters that the increase is largely
unrelated to the Ashcroft changes and is instead the result of a higher rate of
appeals in the courts in New York and California.

Jonathan Cohn, a deputy assistant attorney general in the Justice Department,
said the quality of the decisions rendered by the immigration courts on the
whole was good, noting that the government won more than 90 percent of the cases
in the federal appeals, or circuit, courts.

''The circuit courts do not see any of the tens of thousands of correctly
decided cases that aliens choose not to appeal,'' Mr. Cohn said. ''They're only
seeing a fraction of the cases, and only a small fraction of those give rise to
criticism.''

But that criticism can be very sharp, particularly given the temperate language
that is the norm in the federal appellate courts.

In the Philadelphia decision in September, Judge Julio M. Fuentes of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit had this to say about Annie S.
Garcy, an immigration judge, or I.J., in Newark: ''The tone, the tenor, the
disparagement, and the sarcasm of the I.J. seem more appropriate to a court
television show than a federal court proceeding.''

Judge Garcy ordered Qun Wang returned to China, where he said his wife had been
forcibly sterilized. ''He's a horrible father as far as the court's concerned,''
Judge Garcy ruled, saying Mr. Wang was obsessed with having a son and did not
pay enough attention to his daughter, who is disabled.

All of that was irrelevant to the issues before Judge Garcy, Judge Fuentes
wrote, returning the case to the immigration system for a rehearing before a
different judge. ''The factual issue before'' Judge Garcy, Judge Fuentes wrote,
had been only ''whether Wang's wife had been forcibly sterilized and whether, if
he returned to China, the Chinese government would inflict improper punishment
on him for leaving the country.''

Through a spokeswoman, Judge Garcy declined to comment.

In another decision, Judge Marsha S. Berzon of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, said a decision by Nathan W.
Gordon, an immigration judge, was ''literally incomprehensible,'' ''incoherent''
and ''indecipherable.'' A crucial sentence in Judge Gordon's decision, she said,
''defies parsing under ordinary rules of English grammar.''

Judge Gordon ordered Ernesto Adolfo Recinos de Leon returned to Guatemala,
notwithstanding Mr. Recinos's testimony that he would be persecuted there for
his political activities. Judge Berzon sent the case back to the immigration
system for another hearing.

Judge Gordon, now retired, did not respond to a request for comment.

A spokesman for the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the unit of the
Justice Department responsible for immigration adjudications, declined requests
for interviews with officials there but provided answers to written questions.

''We would caution against drawing broad conclusions,'' the statement said,
''from a small number of cases in the federal courts.'' The nation's roughly 215
immigration judges, the statement continued, ''handle more than 300,000 matters
every year,'' and ''the vast majority of I.J.'s do an excellent job given such a
large caseload.''

Denise Noonan Slavin, the president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges, a union affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said she was concerned about
what she called the rising number of ''scathing opinions'' from federal appeals
court judges.

''To go name-calling and having an open season on judges, it's crossing the line
of civility,'' Judge Slavin said. ''That is not to say that immigration judges
don't make mistakes.''

But Lory Diana Rosenberg, a former judge on the administrative body within the
Justice Department that reviews decisions from immigration judges before they
reach the federal appeals courts, said the recent criticisms were warranted.

''They're a brave, honest and proper reaction,'' Ms. Rosenberg said, ''to a
pattern of unfettered misuse of authority.''

Mary M. Schroeder, the chief judge of the Ninth Circuit, which hears almost half
of all immigration appeals, said the current system was ''woefully inadequate.''

Immigration judges, she said, ''are very unevenly qualified, and they work under
very bad conditions.''

The people who appear before immigration judges often do not speak English, and
their cases often turn in part on changing political and social conditions
around the world. In a decision in March, Judge Posner wrote that immigration
judges' ''lack of familiarity with relevant foreign cultures'' was
''disturbing.''

Judge Slavin, who sits in Miami, disagreed, saying she and her colleagues often
had a sophisticated understanding of conditions in the most relevant countries,
which are China for immigration judges in New York and Philadelphia; Eastern
Europe for those in Chicago; Haiti, Columbia and Venezuela for those in Miami;
and Central and South America for those in California.

''I know more about Haitian politics than the people coming before me,'' Judge
Slavin said. But she acknowledged both the difficulty and the importance of her
work.

''Immigration law can be life-or-death decisions in terms of whether you're
going to send someone back to a place where they may be killed,'' Judge Slavin
said. ''I have over 1,000 cases on my docket. Most of us do about four decisions
a day. In Texas, on the border, you might get 10 a day.''

Judges at the top and bottom of the system blame the administrative body between
them, the Board of Immigration Appeals, for the surge in appeals and the mixed
quality of the decisions reaching the federal appeals courts. The board is meant
to act as a filter, correcting erroneous or intemperate decisions from the
immigration judges and providing general guidance. The losing party can appeal
the board's decision to the federal courts.

But the board largely stopped reviewing immigration cases in a meaningful way
after it was restructured by Mr. Ashcroft in 2002, several judges said.

Mr. Ashcroft reduced the number of judges on the board to 11 from 23. ''They
just hacked off all the liberals is basically what they did,'' said Ms.
Rosenberg, who served on the board from 1995 to 2002.

Mr. Ashcroft also expanded the number of appeals heard by a single board member
and encouraged the use of one-word affirmances in appropriate cases.

The goal of the changes, Mr. Ashcroft said, was streamlining. The board had a
backlog of more than 56,000 cases, which fell to 32,000 by September 2004.

At a conference at New York Law School in September, John M. Walker Jr., the
chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New
York, said the changes at the board level served to transfer its backlog to his
court and other federal appeals courts.

''He just moved the problem from one court to another court,'' Judge Walker said
of Mr. Ashcroft.

In the two and a half years after April 2002, said John R. B. Palmer, a staff
lawyer at the Second Circuit, his court received twice as many appeals from
immigration board decisions as it had in the previous 30 years combined.

Several federal appeals court judges said they were frustrated by the quality of
the board's review of decisions from immigration judges.

In his March decision, Judge Posner wrote that the board often affirmed ''either
with no opinion or with a very short, unhelpful, boilerplate opinion even when''
the immigration judge had committed ''manifest errors of fact and logic.''

As a consequence, Judge Walker said, ''We're the first meaningful review that
the petitioner has.''

In its statement, the immigration review office said ''we absolutely disagree''
with Judge Walker's comment. ''Each decision that comes before the board is
carefully reviewed by a staff attorney and at least one board member,'' the
statement said.

According to the office, the number of one-word affirmances dropped this year,
to about 20 percent from about a third in previous years.

The solution to some of what recent criticisms identified as problems, several
federal appeals court judges said, is to add positions to the immigration board
and to require judges there to explain the reasons for their decisions.

''At least write a couple of pages, three pages,'' said Jon O. Newman, a judge
on the Second Circuit. ''It would really help us.''

An article to be published early next year in the Georgetown Immigration Law
Journal concludes that the shift toward the federal appeals court ''was
triggered by the high volume of B.I.A. decisions issued starting in March 2002,
and a general dissatisfaction with the B.I.A.'s review.''

In its statement, the immigration review office disagreed.

''The surge in federal appeals,'' the statement said, ''is not related to the
board's increased number of decisions but the rate of appeal.'' In some parts of
the country, immigrants appeal only 7 percent of the time, the statement said.
In the states covered by the federal appeals courts in New York and California,
the appeals rate is now more than 30 percent.

At an argument in an appeal of an immigration case in September in Chicago, the
three judges on the panel expressed exasperation with the current state of
affairs.

''Does the Justice Department have any idea of what is happening to your cases
in this court?'' Judge Posner asked Cindy S. Ferrier, the government lawyer
defending the decision of the immigration judge.

She said yes.

A second judge, Ilana Rovner, offered Ms. Ferrier a measure of sympathy.

''It is so cruel to send a lovely human being like you in here to be a messenger
of such madness, such nonsense,'' Judge Rovner said.



Graph tracks immigration appeals filed as a percentage of all cases in the
national, second circuit , and ninth circuit courts since 2000.

*Second Circuit: Connecticut, New York and Vermont.
Ninth Circuit: Alaska, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana,
Nevada, Northern Mariana Islands, Oregon and Washington.

(Source by Administrative Office of the United States Courts)(pg. A26)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paperwork for appeals in immigration cases surrounded Narotan
Rai, an intern at the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
(Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. A26)Graph: ''Rise in
Immigration Cases''There has been a sharp rise in immigration cases on the
dockets of the federal appeals courts, particularly the Second and Ninth Circuit
Courts*.Graph tracks total immigration appeals filed in the national , second
cicuit, and ninth circuit courts since 2000.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Orders Accused Camp Guard Deported

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Dec. 28


An immigration judge on Wednesday ordered John Demjanjuk, a retired autoworker
accused of being a Nazi concentration camp guard, deported to his native
Ukraine, but the 30-year legal battle still may not be over.

Mr. Demjanjuk, 85, has been fighting to stay in this country since the 1970's.

The United States first tried to deport him in 1977. Mistakenly suspected of
being a guard known as Ivan the Terrible at the Treblinka concentration camp, he
was extradited to Israel, where he was sentenced to be hanged.

But the Israeli Supreme Court determined that Ivan had been someone else.

Mr. Demjanjuk lost his United States citizenship in 2002 after a judge ruled
that documents from World War II proved he was a Nazi guard at various death or
forced labor camps.

The judge who ordered Mr. Demjanjuk deported, Chief Immigration Judge Michael J.
Creppy, ruled that there was no evidence to substantiate Mr. Demjanjuk's
assertion that he would be tortured if deported to his homeland. Judge Creppy
also said that if Ukraine refused to accept Mr. Demjanjuk, he should then be
deported to Germany or Poland.

Mr. Demjanjuk can appeal Judge Creppy's ruling to the Board of Immigration
Appeals within 30 days.

His lawyer, John Broadley, argued at a hearing last month that sending Mr.
Demjanjuk back to Ukraine would be like throwing him ''into a shark tank.''

Mr. Broadley said that the ruling on Wednesday was the judge's final order in
the case and was required before he could file an appeal of a June ruling by the
judge authorizing the government to deport Mr. Demjanjuk.

Mr. Broadley said that he had not read all of the latest ruling, but he said
that Mr. Demjanjuk would appeal the earlier decision.

After his release in Israel, Mr. Demjanjuk returned the United States. His
American citizenship was restored, then revoked again.

The current case is based on evidence uncovered by the Justice Department.

Mr. Demjanjuk has denied the accusations.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Demjanjuk, left, who is accused of being a guard at Nazi
concentration camps, is shown in February with Ed Nichnis, his son-in-law.
(Photo by Mark Duncan/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats Criticize Appointment at Immigration Agency

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7


Senate Democrats this week sharply criticized President Bush's decision to
install Julie L. Myers, a White House official, as head of the nation's
immigration enforcement agency despite concerns on the part of some about her
qualifications for the job.

Ms. Myers, a 36-year-old lawyer, will be sworn in on Monday. She currently
serves as the president's special assistant for personnel and previously worked
as an assistant secretary at the Department of Commerce. She has never managed a
large department or dealt extensively with immigration issues.

When Mr. Bush nominated Ms. Myers last year, Democratic and Republican senators
raised concerns about her lack of experience, and her Senate confirmation
appeared to be in doubt. Some critics said they feared that her political
connections, rather than her qualifications, had driven the decision to select
her to lead the bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which has 15,000
employees and a budget of about $4 billion.

On Wednesday, Mr. Bush bypassed the Senate confirmation process and used his
power of recess appointment to install Ms. Myers as director of the bureau,
which is part of the Department of Homeland Security. The department's
secretary, Michael Chertoff, praised Ms. Myers, saying that she possessed ''the
experience, judgment and determination'' necessary for the job.

But some Senate Democrats said they were still concerned about her ability to
manage the bureau. The agency has been beset by controversies, including
accusations of mismanagement of its budget and questions about its effectiveness
in enforcing immigration laws.

At the Department of Commerce, Ms. Myers supervised a unit of 170 employees.

Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, said on Friday that Ms.
Myers ''really was not qualified for the position.'' Mr. Lieberman said Congress
had intended the position to be held by someone with at least five years'
management experience.

''In my opinion, she lacks the management background,'' he said. ''And one of
her key responsibilities is to enforce immigration laws, and she has virtually
no immigration experience.''

Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii, echoed those concerns. ''The head of I.C.E.
should be an individual who has demonstrated extensive executive-level
leadership and the ability to manage a budget through reorganizations and budget
cycles,'' Mr. Akaka said. ''Ms. Myers has not demonstrated this ability.''

Erin Healy, a spokeswoman for the White House, countered that Ms. Myers had
''extensive law enforcement experience,'' noting that she had also served as
chief of staff for the criminal division in the Justice Department and as a
federal prosecutor in New York.

''She's tried criminal cases and worked with customs agents on everything from
drug smuggling to money laundering,'' Ms. Healy said. ''So to say that Julie
does not have the prerequisite experience to lead I.C.E., it simply ignores her
extensive background working with law enforcement, immigration and customs.

''This position has been vacant for far too long,'' Ms. Healy continued. ''It's
essential that the agency has the leadership it needs.''

Mr. Bush nominated Ms. Myers for the position in June, but the decision first
stirred a furor in September after Hurricane Katrina, as the administration
faced criticism about the performance of Michael D. Brown, then the director of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Mr. Brown, a Republican without prior experience in managing disasters, was
brought to Washington by a friend, Joe M. Allbaugh, his predecessor at FEMA.

Ms. Myers, who has held a variety of federal jobs over the last four years, drew
attention because of her ties to the White House and some senior officials. She
is a niece of Gen. Richard B. Myers, who recently stepped down as chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the wife of John Wood, Mr. Chertoff's chief of
staff.

Criticism of her nomination was not limited to the comments of Democrats. In
September, National Review, an influential conservative publication, urged Mr.
Bush to withdraw Ms. Myers's nomination. In an editorial, the magazine compared
her to Mr. Brown and called her ''another unqualified nominee for a vital
position in the Department of Homeland Security.''

''The president's supporters can look forward to serving in his administration,
but certain key jobs ought to be reserved for candidates whose personal
connections don't outweigh their professional qualifications,'' the editorial
said.

Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said that Ms.
Myers's critics were ignoring her experience in pursuing financial, narcotics
and weapons crimes, experience that he said would be critical to an agency that
is increasingly focused on breaking sophisticated smuggling rings.

Several Senate Republicans also voiced support for Ms. Myers on Friday, though
not without raising some concerns about her qualifications and the appointment
process.

Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, who had raised sharp questions
about Ms. Myers's qualifications in September, said on Friday that she was
''intelligent and highly driven'' with ''the potential to be an effective
leader.''

''Though I would have preferred that Ms. Myers had more management experience,''
Mr. Voinovich said that ''as a former mayor and governor, I feel strongly that
managers should have the flexibility to hire their own team, and then be held
accountable for the results.''

Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, has also praised Ms. Myers, saying
that she ''would bring experience and the confidence of Secretary Chertoff to
this mission.'' But on Friday, Ms. Collins expressed concern about Mr. Bush's
decision to bypass the Senate confirmation process.

''It was disappointing to her that the White House circumvented the normal
nomination process,'' said Jen Burita, a spokeswoman for Ms. Collins.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julie L. Myers before the Senate Judiciary Committee in October.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protests Brew Over Attempt To Deport Pregnant Woman

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words


The treatment of a pregnant Chinese woman who miscarried twins last week after
federal immigration officers in Philadelphia forcibly tried to deport her from
New York has become a flash point for planned protest in the Chinese-American
communities of both cities, lawyers and immigrant advocates said yesterday.

Richard Bortnick, a lawyer with the Philadelphia law firm of Cozen O'Connor,
which is handling the woman's case without fee, said that protest rallies would
be held today. He said he had appealed to senators in Pennsylvania and New York
to help investigate the treatment of the woman, Zhenxing Jiang, 32, who has said
that the officers manhandled her and ridiculed her pleas for medical help until
it was too late.

While her husband and sons, 4 and 7, waited in the lobby of an immigration
office, unaware of what was happening, Mr. Bortnick said, the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officers pushed Ms. Jiang into a minivan, bruised her and
bumped her abdomen against the backseat and drove her to Kennedy Airport.

He said the officers stopped to eat lunch themselves but gave the pregnant woman
nothing to eat during her eight-hour ordeal and cursed her when she cried and
told them she was in pain.

By the time they reached the airport, Ms. Jiang was suffering severe abdominal
cramps and begging for help in a public waiting area, said John C. Liu, a New
York city council member, who called the woman's treatment un-American. Someone
called an ambulance, Mr. Liu said, and she was taken to Jamaica Hospital Medical
Center, where Mr. Liu visited her after doctors found that the two fetuses she
was carrying had died.

No one disputes that under immigration law, Ms. Jiang could have been deported
at any time after 2002, when she exhausted her appeals on the denial of her
application for political asylum on the ground of China's one-child policy.

But her husband's political asylum case is still pending on appeal, Mr. Bortnick
said, and the couple, whose sons were born in the United States and are
citizens, have worked legally and paid taxes as Chinese restaurant operators in
Philadelphia for a decade.

Ms. Jiang had been allowed to report routinely for years to an immigration
office in Philadelphia until last Tuesday, he added.

Ms. Jiang and many of the family's Chinese supporters say the authorities
decided to deport her when they learned she was pregnant, to prevent her from
giving birth to another United States citizen.

In a statement issued last week in response to a news release from Mr. Liu,
immigration officials said Ms. Jiang's ''arranged departure to China from J.F.K.
International Airport was delayed for medical reasons that were addressed
immediately by New York Fire Department emergency medical technicians.''

It added: ''Following her treatment at a New York hospital, Jiang was released
from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody so she could further
address her medical needs. Once she is cleared medically, efforts to effectuate
her repatriation will resume.''

Mr. Bortnick, who is filing a petition to delay her removal, said that when Ms.
Jiang's husband, Tien Xiao Zhang, finally learned what had happened and went to
the hospital, officers instructed him that his wife should report to immigration
headquarters the next Monday, which was yesterday. Instead, ''she has gone
missing,'' Mr. Bortnick said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Case Against Boy Is Dismissed

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 237 words


A federal immigration court judge in Manhattan yesterday dismissed the
deportation proceedings against Jose Rodas, a 7-year-old whose case was
described in a front-page article in The New York Times on Friday about how
low-level immigration gatekeepers and prosecutors are using their growing
discretionary power over travelers who pose no security risk.

Immigration authorities had been trying to deport Jose over the protests of his
mother, Emily Arroyo, a United States citizen born in New York, ever since he
returned from a brief trip to his native Canada two years ago without the right
visa.

Earlier this month, the judge, Sarah M. Burr, suggested that lawyers for United
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement use their discretion to close the
case administratively. They refused, and instead demanded that Jose's mother, a
hairstylist reared in Guatemala, buy him a one-way ticket to Canada by
yesterday's hearing.

After the article appeared, immigration prosecutors joined the boy's lawyer,
Irwin Berowitz, in a motion for permanent dismissal of the case, finding that
Jose's situation fit government guidelines for prosecutorial discretion. As the
minor child of a citizen, Jose is eligible to apply for permanent residency now
that he is no longer in deportation proceedings.

''The judge said to me, 'Please just let your client and his mother know that I
wish them the best of luck,' '' Mr. Berowitz said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Brooklyn From Ukraine, Orphan's Rescue Has a Happy Ending

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 964 words


She was a girl left behind for years in a Ukraine orphanage while her
grandmother and older brother started a new life in Brooklyn. Their failed
efforts to bring her to America under an immigration provision known as
''humanitarian parole'' underscored the mystery of the process that lawyers
liken to a contest of human suffering, with the United States as the prize.

But on Sunday, in the kind of happy ending that is rare outside Hollywood, the
girl, 12-year-old Raisa Skakun, was welcomed to America as a winner, with
balloons at Kennedy International Airport, the hugs of long-lost relatives and a
billionaire's pledge of financial support. Immigration officials had
reconsidered her case, urged on by an outpouring of concern after Raisa's story
was detailed in an article on Oct. 14 in The New York Times.

Still, the road to the Jan. 24 approval of the fourth petition on Raisa's behalf
was not simple. This time, however, Raisa's champions included influential
public officials and private citizens. The former counsel to immigration
services, Bo Cooper, helped redraft the petition. Alexandra W. B. Malick, the
wife of the filmmaker Terrence Malick who is better known as Ecky, enlisted
supporters like Sean Penn, the actor, Max Palevsky, a billionaire
philanthropist, and -- when nothing else seemed to work -- appealed to one of
her neighbors in Austin, Tex.: Karen Hughes, the under secretary of state for
public diplomacy in the Bush administration.

''Many people called in and tried to help,'' said Raisa's grandmother and
adoptive mother, Larisa Bebeshko, 65, who flew to Ukraine as soon as travel
arrangements could be made to bring Raisa home from the orphanage for destitute
Jewish children where she has lived since she was 6. ''This has taken a very
long time and I'm very thankful and very happy.''

Shy at first, Raisa, a slim, dark-haired girl, was soon chattering happily in
Russian as she explored the two-bedroom public housing apartment in Coney Island
where she will live with her grandmother and her 17-year-old half-brother, Alex
Krylov.

She was still a baby and Alex was 7 or 8 when their heroin-addicted mother left
her to his care. They were rescued by their grandparents, only to see the family
broken up again by deaths, illness, and the twists and backlogs of a visa
process that gave Alex a new chance in America but left Raisa orphaned and alone
in Ukraine.

Alex was 12 when he and his grandmother arrived in Brooklyn as refugees,
determined to retrieve Raisa. The one disappointment of her homecoming was the
absence of Alex, now 17 and a student earning A's at Edward R. Murrow High
School. He was on his way to Israel on a previously scheduled educational trip
sponsored by the Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst.

''We never expected it to be that quick,'' he said, shortly before Raisa's plane
landed and his left. ''It's awesome. We'd been working on it for the past three
and a half years and nothing happened.''

The reasons for Raisa's earlier rejections remain a mystery, said Irina
Matiychenko, a lawyer for the nonprofit New York Legal Assistance Group, which
saw her case as perfect for ''humanitarian parole,'' an exceptional measure
limited to ''urgent humanitarian reasons'' or ''significant public benefit'' at
the discretion of the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.

Among more than 50 people who called to help after the Times article was
published, she said, were some who work for members of Congress from New York,
like Representative Jerrold Nadler and Senator Charles E. Schumer, who wrote
letters to Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Others donated money, like a man
in Chicago who wrote a $400 check to cover the fee for expedited handling of Ms.
Bebeshko's citizenship application. But no one became more personally involved
than Ms. Malick, who flew to New York and arranged for Alex and his grandmother
to meet Mr. Palevsky, 81, a computer industry pioneer, Hollywood film producer,
campaign finance reform activist and art collector, in his hotel suite at the
Sherry-Netherland overlooking Central Park.

To dispel any official concern that Raisa was likely to become ''a public
charge,'' Ms. Malick and Mr. Palevsky both signed affidavits of support. Then,
at Mr. Cooper's suggestion, Raisa's case was added to the agenda last fall when
Democrats in Congress questioned Julie L. Myers, President Bush's nominee who
went on to head the immigration enforcement agency. But the written answer was
discouraging.

''I am troubled by the implication in the New York Times article that
high-profile cases are treated differently,'' Ms. Myers replied, referring to
the finding that some of the 1,465 cases approved in the last six years out of
6,718 applications had been denied before news media accounts brought
Congressional intervention.

By Jan. 6, Ms. Malick was almost ready to give up, she said, when her Bible fell
open to a passage about caring for widows and orphans. That is when she put a
copy of the article about Raisa in Ms. Hughes's mailbox. ''She called me
immediately,'' Ms. Malick recalled. ''She said, 'I'll do what I can.'''

Exactly what tipped the scales is unclear. But last week Ms. Malick was in
Odessa, Ukraine, sharing the joy of what she calls ''rescuing Raisa.'' At the
orphanage there, Raisa slept in one of six bunk beds and sometimes went hungry
so she could feed stray kittens.

In New York last night -- after skating in Central Park, eating in Times Square,
and marveling at the Empire State Building -- she slept in her grandmother's
arms in Coney Island, beside the plump, purring cat she now calls her own.

''You can't cure all the ills of the world,'' Ms. Malick said. ''But you could
fill the ocean if everybody put a few drops in every so often.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hugs were plentiful at Kennedy Airport when Raisa Skakun, 12,
arrived on Sunday. She found a playmate, a cat, at her new home in Coney Island.

 Raisa and Larisa Bebeshko, the grandmother who adopted her. (Photographs by
Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sources of Help For Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 260 words


Hospitals in the United States are required to provide emergency care regardless
of immigration status. But beyond emergencies, the availability, rules and risks
of health care for noncitizens, legal and illegal, vary widely around the
country.

One source of information is maintained by the National Immigration Law Center,
an advocacy organization, at nilc.org/immspbs/index.htm.

Another resource is free community clinics that rely on donations and
volunteers, not government reimbursement, and treat people regardless of
immigration status. For a list, Bonnie A. Beavers, executive director of the
National Association of Free Clinics, pointed to
uniteforsight.org/freeclinics.php.

What noncitizens often have to fear most is fear itself, say advocacy groups
like Make the Road by Walking, a Brooklyn organization that has emboldened its
immigrant members to demand from health care providers the interpretation
services they are due under federal law.

Over the last four years, even as the legislative climate has turned more
hostile, the group and its allies have waged a strategic campaign of civil
rights complaints, patient surveys and political pressure to improve the
interpreter services provided at four New York hospitals.

Altagracia Alfonso, a Dominican immigrant with cancer who worked on the
campaign, said that before November, she had to ask her adult children what
doctors at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital were saying. Now, a Spanish-speaking
nurse helps with her chemotherapy. ''It's a huge difference,'' she said. ''I'm
very grateful.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 11, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Setback to Bush on Ports Deal Casts a Shadow Over His Agenda

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David D. Kirkpatrick and Elisabeth Bumiller contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Congressional Memo; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10


President Bush's inability to hold sway over his party on the ports deal
involving Dubai suggests that he faces trouble keeping Republicans together on
his major policy initiatives this year, including overhauling immigration laws,
approving new trade pacts and locking in his tax cuts, lawmakers and aides said
on Friday.

They said Republicans who had tried to never send Mr. Bush a bill he would veto
now saw themselves more as equal partners with the White House and would not shy
from shaping legislation more to their liking, particularly with a difficult
midterm election ahead.

At the same time, Congressional Republicans are divided on many of the major
issues. With Mr. Bush weakened, it is not clear whether he can unify his party
sufficiently to win the string of substantial legislative victories that
lawmakers on the ballot would like to take home in the fall.

In the Senate, Republicans are distancing themselves from some of Mr. Bush's
proposed spending and tax cuts. In both the House and the Senate, there are
significant intraparty divisions over how to deal with illegal immigration, with
lawmakers focused more on border controls than the administration is. Mr. Bush's
call for new trade agreements could be endangered by the strong protectionist
sentiment exposed by the controversy over the ports deal. And some Republicans
are leery of Mr. Bush's push for nuclear cooperation with India.

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, described the new stance
toward the White House as ''issue specific.''

''What you see here is people within the president's party pushing back against
the administration's view of executive power,'' Mr. Graham said. ''The political
moment for the president is not good, but when it comes to sustaining the tax
cuts in a permanent fashion, he will get the support he needs.''

The White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, minimized such a rift, saying:
''Sometimes there may be disagreement, but there's much more that unites us. We
have a proven record of working together to get things done.''

Senior Congressional aides, asking not to be quoted by name so they could speak
more candidly about the months ahead, were blunt, saying the decision to buck
Mr. Bush on the port deal was a sign that the days of the White House's calling
most of the policy shots were over.

''It is a signal given to the White House that no longer will Congressional
Republicans stand idle if the administration wants some policy that will affect
them in an election year,'' a senior Republican official said.

Referring to the past promise to spare Mr. Bush from legislation he might not
approve, another aide said, ''That declaration is now a dead letter.''

Speaker J. Dennis Hastert sought on Friday to play down the break with Mr. Bush,
saying the president and Congressional Republicans were largely in sync.

''Now, we have had a difference of opinion with some second- or third-level
people in the administration, especially over the port security thing,'' Mr.
Hastert told reporters in a conference call to laud economic gains. ''We've had
a difference of opinion, but we also got a good result out of it. And we'll join
together with the administration to continue to pass both the budget and our
agenda.''

After being pushed off track by the port furor, the House and Senate will return
to budget and spending issues, immigration policy, pension legislation and
perhaps some effort on health care in the 100 days remaining in the session.

In the Senate, Republicans also intend to hold votes on the politically charged
topics of same-sex marriage and flag burning as the leadership reaches out to
its conservative base. And Congress is likely to rewrite the rules for reviewing
foreign acquisitions of facilities that are significant to national security,
citing major flaws in the process that came to light because of the scrutiny of
the Dubai transaction.

Members of both parties say they expect Republican leaders to do what they can
to prevent their lawmakers from having to cast tough votes.

''What the Dubai proposal demonstrated is that the Republican leadership is
going to go to great lengths from having any votes on controversial issues in
the remaining months of the session,'' said Jim Manley, a spokesman for Senator
Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader.

Mr. Manley said Democrats had ideas of their own and would try to force
Republicans to vote on Democratic priorities, like the rising costs of health
care, college tuition and energy. And they are planning to press for more
spending on port security when the Senate takes up its proposed federal budget
next week.

The budget is one example of the Republican election-year approach. After
struggling to wring nearly $40 billion in savings out of social programs last
year, Senate Republicans are steering clear of additional Medicare cuts sought
by President Bush, and some House Republicans are pressing their leadership to
do the same.

And while there is strong Republican backing for tax cuts, some lawmakers are
resisting extensions of lower rates on investment income, worried about the
image of approving tax breaks that would benefit the more affluent while holding
down spending on most government programs.

Lawmakers and aides say the level of Mr. Bush's strength on Capitol Hill is tied
to his standing in public opinion polls, which in turn is related to the public
perception of conditions in Iraq. Any progress there could strengthen Mr. Bush
and give him greater influence over the House and Senate.

In the end, many Republicans say, Mr. Bush's power on Capitol Hill will rest on
what he is proposing and whether they agree. ''When he is right on the issues,''
said Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, ''we will be with him.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The political moment for the president is not good,'' said
Senator Lindsey Graham, who says Republicans are challenging the administration
on specific issues. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Choice to Run Immigration Agency Gains Key Approval

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7


Julie L. Myers, the lawyer nominated to take over the immigration enforcement
agency, moved a step closer to confirmation on Friday when a crucial Senate
committee rejected questions about her resume and endorsed her nomination by a
7-to-2 party-line vote.

Ms. Myers's qualifications had been questioned by senators from both parties
after President Bush nominated her in June to head the 14,200-employee
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

Ms. Myers, 36, has not dealt extensively with immigration issues or managed a
large department before.

The debate about her background arose while the Bush administration was facing
criticism about the performance of the director of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, Michael D. Brown, after Hurricane Katrina.

Mr. Brown, a Republican activist with no prior experience in managing disasters,
was brought to Washington by an old friend, Joe M. Albaugh, his predecessor at
FEMA.

With the Supreme Court nomination of the White House counsel, Harriett E. Miers,
the administration is again defending itself against charges of cronyism. Ms.
Myers has held a variety of federal jobs over the last four years, most recently
as a presidential aide for personnel and, before that, as an assistant secretary
for export enforcement at the Commerce Department, where she supervised 170
employees.

When Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, a former federal appeals
court judge and prosecutor, was at the Justice Department, Ms. Myers briefly
worked as his chief of staff. The immigration and emergency management agencies
are in his department.

Senators Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and Daniel K. Akaka of Hawaii, both
Democrats, said Friday at a meeting of the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee that they were impressed by Ms. Myers's
intelligence and dedication to public service.

Since Immigration and Customs Enforcement was created nearly three years ago, it
has been troubled by controversies, including accusations of mismanagement of
its $3.2billion budget, questions about some officers' integrity and criticism
of effectiveness in enforcing immigration laws.

Given those challenges, Mr. Lieberman and Mr. Akaka said Friday, they did not
think that Ms. Myers had the requisite experience and would vote against her.

''Ms. Myers lacks the management background,'' Mr. Lieberman said. ''I am
worried about whether she is right for this job.''

Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, raised similar questions last
month at her confirmation hearing, telling her that he wanted to meet Mr.
Chertoff to understand ''why he thinks you're qualified for the job, because
based on the resume, I don't think you are.''

On Friday, Mr. Voinovich said that a conversation with Mr. Chertoff and an
additional meeting with Ms. Myers had changed his mind.

''He strenuously argued and convinced me that she has got the gear to get the
job done,'' Mr. Voinovich said. ''Yes, there may be a couple of areas where she
needs some strength, but strength can be brought to her.''

Senators Robert F. Bennett of Utah and John W. Warner of Virginia, both
Republicans, recalled how they had faced similar skepticism early in their
careers, Mr. Warner after his appointment as Navy secretary, at age 45, and Mr.
Bennett as chief Congressional liaison for the Transportation Department, at 36.

''This young woman does not exude weakness,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''She comes
across as someone who is very firm and very solid, and she obviously has the
support of the secretary.''

No one on Friday mentioned that Ms. Myers is a niece of Gen. Richard B. Myers of
the Air Force, who just stepped down as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
or that she recently married John Wood, Mr. Chertoff's chief of staff,
affiliations that have led some watchdogs to suggest that her nomination was a
result of connections, not qualifications.

Officials at the Homeland Security Department and the White House have rejected
those comments, saying Ms. Myers is well qualified.

Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, said he was not concerned that she
had no experience with immigration.  ''We need people thinking out of the box,''
Mr. Coburn said, ''and she is going to do that. She doesn't know what can't be
done.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Regaining Control of Our Borders

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 123 words



To the Editor:

The immigration reform bill discussed in your editorial is not solely the
McCain-Kennedy bill. It is also the Kolbe-Flake-Gutierrez bill in the House of
Representatives.

The two pieces of legislation are identical, and one of the strengths of the
bill is that it is bipartisan and bicameral. All five congressmen's offices,
from different political philosophies and regions of the country, played an
equal role in crafting the ideas and the language.

In order for a comprehensive immigration reform bill to be enacted into law this
session, it must have broad bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate.


Jim Kolbe
Washington, Oct. 18, 2005

The writer, a Republican, represents Arizona's Eighth District in the House.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation and Its Newcomers, All in Flux

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 636 words


The most shocking image in David Grubin's ''Destination America'' is a headline
from a Connecticut newspaper, The Bridgeport Telegram: ''Stricter Immigration
Laws Needed to Purify Stock of U.S. Population -- Davis,'' with an article
written by James J. Davis, secretary of labor from 1921 to 1930.

If ''Destination America,'' a four-part PBS mini-series that begins with Parts 1
and 2 tonight, has a point of view, it is that immigrants have come to the
United States for countless reasons and that immigration policies have usually
been developed and adjusted according to our needs and whims at the time.

There was a time when, as the narrator says, ''if you could get here, you could
stay here.''

The country was practically begging Mexican workers to come here, for instance,
during World War II, when so many American men were overseas. Now Mexicans like
Manuel who want to work here have to do it illegally. Manuel (who does not give
his last name, for obvious reasons) takes a bus, pays an illegal guide, climbs a
tree and jumps a fence into Arizona. He prays he won't be caught.

Part 1, ''The Golden Door,'' turns abruptly from Manuel's experiences (he has
been doing this off and on for 15 years, to support his family) to a festival of
Midwestern blonds celebrating Norwegian independence. Immigrants came from
Stavanger, Norway, in 1825, attracted by cultivable land (fjords are pretty but
it's hard to grow vegetables in them), and a Norwegian man soon wrote a
question-and-answer guide for the people back home, essentially ''Immigration
for Dummies.''

The show turns to the potato famine in Ireland in the 1840's, when more than a
million starving Irish men and women left for the United States. America was
''not so much a land of opportunity as a last resort,'' the narrator says. By
1860, half the population of Lowell, Mass., was Irish; it was a mill town and
there were jobs.

Other immigrants came to build the railroad, the factories and the subways.

''Destination America'' jumps around a little too much, possibly because this is
far too big a subject for a four-hour treatment. There is easily enough material
here for a 12-hour, Ken Burns-style series, and even then some groups (the
Laotians, the Moravians, the Huguenots) might be left out.

In Part 2, ''The Art of Departure,'' Mr. Grubin is carried away by the stories
of individual immigrants who have come to the United States for artistic
freedom.

He focuses on Toscanini, the brilliant conductor, whose story and filmed
performances are compelling. Mr. Grubin touches briefly on the enormous number
of artists who moved here to escape Mussolini or Hitler and what they added to
the 20th-century American cultural landscape, a subject worthy of a series of
films itself.

Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Russian artists who now live and work in Mattituck,
N.Y., are less colorful. They lived under Stalin for decades but left the Soviet
Union after ''unofficial artists'' like them were condemned.

Fang-Yi Sheu, a Taiwanese-born dancer who is now a principal with the Martha
Graham company, is a striking performer. But the narrator's comment that leaving
behind everything you know has always been a traumatic experience does not ring
completely true. Ms. Sheu flies home for Mother's Day and gives radio interviews
about her wonderful new life in New York.

The third and fourth episodes, to be shown next Wednesday night, are about
immigrants who came to the United States for religious freedom and women who
have immigrated here to escape second-class (at best) citizenship in their home
countries.

Destination America
PBS, tonight and Oct. 26 at 9 p.m.; check local listings.

David Grubin, executive producer; Stephen Stept, Mr. Grubin and Chana Gazit,
producers-writers. Produced by David Grubin Productions and Penguin Television.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexican workers recruited by the American government in 1943.
(Photo by Library of Congress)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Faulty Papers Can Put Travelers In Rough Hands at U.S. Border

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words


One is a second grader in Manhattan. Over the protests of his American mother,
immigration officials have been trying to deport him ever since he returned from
a brief visit to his native Canada without the right visa. Another is an Irish
professor of literature invited to teach at the University of Pennsylvania last
month. He was handcuffed at the Philadelphia airport, strip-searched, jailed
overnight and sent back to Europe to correct an omission in his travel papers.

Then there are the seven Tibetan monks who were visiting Omaha two weeks ago.
After their church sponsor abruptly withdrew its support, their religious visas
were revoked and a dozen immigration officers in riot gear showed up to arrest
them.

The details in these cases vary, as do the technical visa infractions committed
by each of the foreigners. But they all testify to a larger issue looming on the
front lines of immigration enforcement: how low-level gatekeepers and
prosecutors in the customs and immigration system are using their growing
discretionary power over travelers who pose no security risk.

Officials of the Department of Homeland Security have acknowledged that
intensified efforts to keep out terrorists since the 9/11 attacks have sometimes
led to the heavy-handed treatment of foreigners whose only offense was an
inadvertent paperwork error or being caught in a bureaucratic tangle. In memos
issued in 2004 and 2005, agency officials encouraged officers to use discretion
and legal shortcuts to resolve such cases quickly, saving resources for more
important tasks and showing the world a more welcoming face.

But immigration lawyers say the effort is not working. Though there are no
statistics on such cases, the lawyers say they are seeing harsher treatment in
situations involving paperwork errors or minor infractions. A political climate
more hostile to foreigners, fears of being faulted for leniency and a lack of
coordination among immigration agencies, they say, are leading officers to go
overboard in cases that fit the government guidelines for prosecutorial
discretion.

''I'm desperate,'' Emily Arroyo, the mother of the second grader, said last
week, after prosecutors refused an immigration judge's suggestion that they drop
the two-year-old deportation case against her son, Jose Arroyo Rodas. Instead,
they demanded that she buy him a one-way ticket to Canada by next week.

''I'm American -- they're making me leave my country, too, because of course I'm
not going to let him go alone,'' said Ms. Arroyo, a hairstylist raised in
Guatemala, who calculates that she has spent $10,000 in legal fees trying in
vain to fix Jose's paperwork problem. But on Wednesday, hours after this
reporter asked United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials in
Washington for comment about the case, an agency spokesman, Marc Raimondi, said
that prosecutors reviewing the matter had found that it met the guidelines for
prosecutorial discretion. ''A dismissal recommendation to the immigration judge
is planned,'' he said.

Kelly Klundt, a spokeswoman for Customs and Border Protection, which is also
part of Homeland Security, said that as its officers process 86 million air
travelers a year and enforce 400 different laws, ''there are unfortunately going
to be a few instances that do not demonstrate perfect discretion.''

''Achieving a balance of being a welcoming nation and keeping the borders secure
is terribly difficult,'' she added. ''We are seeking to improve the way we
handle all of these types of situations.''

But a case like Jose's only confirms that without exceptional outside attention
or high-level intervention, rigidity prevails, said Diane M. Butler, a Seattle
lawyer who heads the American Immigration Lawyers Association committee that
works with Customs and Border Protection.

Most officers, she said, ''are trying to do the right thing'' but lack training
in how to apply discretion. But, in some instances, she added, officers seem
newly emboldened by campaigns against illegal immigration to express their
resentment of foreigners by denying or delaying entry whenever possible. She
said her business clients reported remarks like, '' 'You're just trying to take
jobs away from Americans.' ''

Other immigrant advocates say that low-level employees often act out of fear.
''The people on the front line are told that if they make a mistake, their jobs
are gone,'' said Amy L. Peck, an immigration lawyer in Omaha who heads the
association committee that works with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''So
that translates into this rigid -- what one could also describe as extreme --
policy of turning away and not using discretion in cases that scream for it.''

The Irish professor, John McCourt, 40, said that on Jan. 7, an immigration
officer at Philadelphia International Airport initially offered to correct a
paperwork omission on the spot if he paid a $265 fine. Professor McCourt said he
readily agreed, but five minutes later, the officer returned and said she had
changed her mind -- ''that I was a university professor and should have known
better'' and would be sent back the same night.

In an e-mail message, Professor McCourt, a James Joyce specialist at the
University of Trieste in Italy, wrote: ''I was told that if I protested I would
simply be deported and never be let back.''

At 11 p.m., six hours after his arrival, he was transported in handcuffs to the
Montgomery County jail, along with another traveler denied entry, Kerstin
Spitzl, a pregnant German woman who says that immigration officers abruptly
canceled her visa, insisting that she was planning to violate its terms by
working.

Worse than the cold, windowless cells at the jail, they said in separate
interviews, was a sense of powerlessness. ''You're scared,'' said Ms. Spitzl
from her home in Wuppertal. ''You have no rights. You cannot contact nobody,
nobody can contact you.''

In Italy, Professor McCourt quickly fixed his paperwork at the American
consulate in Florence, and returned to start his classes at Penn a week late.
But in New York last week, where he spoke at Fordham University on ''Joyce and
Judaism,'' he said his experience had confirmed his European friends' worst
fears about America.

''At the moment, America is easy to hate,'' he said, ''So people say, 'That does
it for me. I'm not going to risk that happening.' ''

Ms. Klundt, of Customs and Border Protection, said she could not comment on
individual cases. But she quoted Robert C. Bonner, who retired as the agency's
commissioner in November: ''Isolated incidents of rude and hostile conduct
reflect poorly on our agency and our country and they are inconsistent with
C.B.P. law enforcement professionalism.''

In an August 2004 memo, announcing an agency ''professionalism initiative,'' Mr.
Bonner also said: ''Since the overwhelming majority of travelers pose absolutely
no threat to our national security, C.B.P. will use discretion to permit entry,
whenever the law allows, for individuals that have committed a technical or
inadvertent immigration violation, but who otherwise pose no threat
whatsoever.''

Guidelines on prosecutorial discretion were also issued last October by the
chief counsel to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, William J. Howard, ''to
reallocate limited ICE resources to priority cases by dismissing appropriate
cases,'' like deportation proceedings against people whose applications to stay
in the United States, though backlogged, were likely to be approved.

Sometimes the case for leniency is in the eye of the beholder. In the case of
the Tibetan monks, Ms. Peck said they had been abandoned without money in
Arizona by their sponsor, the Church of Shambhala, because they refused to
recognize its leader as the reincarnation of Buddha and Jesus. They traveled to
Omaha for Buddhist workshops, unaware that their visas had been revoked, she
said. But Mr. Raimondi defended the arrests, saying that the monks had been
notified that their visas were revoked, and became ''fugitive aliens'' when they
left Arizona.

In Jose Rodas's case, prosecutorial discretion may be the only way to cut
through a tangle of law and circumstance -- and as of last night, the boy's
lawyer, Irwin Berowitz, said he had received no word of the government's change
of heart. Jose cannot automatically derive American citizenship from his mother
because she was reared in Guatemala, and his absent father is not American.

A petition to set the boy on the road to United States citizenship has been
approved, but obstacles include a two-year processing backlog, his lawyer said.
And as long as prosecutors remain opposed, an immigration judge has no authority
to dismiss his deportation case.

At one hearing, Ms. Arroyo said, the judge had to take a break to regain her
composure after she and Jose both started crying. ''He kept saying,'' Ms. Arroyo
recalled, '' 'Mommy, I don't want to leave.' ''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Arroyo, 25, an American citizen, worries that she and her
son, Jose, will have to move to his native Canada because he might be deported.
(Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 24, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Union Leader Supporting Guest Worker Proposal

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1273 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 23


The graying union organizer strode to the microphone on a stage here on Thursday
night, and hundreds of immigrants, students and workers cheered.

As a teenager, he followed his father into the fields in California, picking
grapes alongside fellow immigrants from Mexico who labored without toilets or
drinking water for little pay and even less respect.

Today, the former farm worker, Eliseo Medina, is vice president of the Service
Employees International Union, the nation's second-largest union. He is also an
advocate of one of President Bush's most contentious proposals: the effort to
legalize 11 million illegal immigrants and create what could be the largest
temporary guest worker program for foreigners in more than 40 years.

''We are all united in the belief that our broken immigration system is not
serving anyone well,'' said Mr. Medina, who spoke at a rally at Miami-Dade
Community College in favor of a bipartisan immigration plan expected to be
debated next week in the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Medina's stance has helped solidify his role as a prominent national labor
leader, but it is also roiling the nation's unions. If such a plan is passed by
Congress, it could result in the largest reshaping of immigration policy and the
workplace in decades. The A.F.L.-C.I.O., which fiercely opposes the guest worker
proposal, says it would result in the disappearance of thousands of permanent
jobs and create an underclass of poorly paid foreign workers.

The disagreement among labor leaders over the guest worker plan, which has
simmered mostly behind closed doors, has been overshadowed in recent months by
the fractious debate among Republicans about how to handle the swelling
population of illegal workers in the United States.

But the guest worker plan is also generating tensions among those on the left,
particularly in the nation's labor movement.

''I don't think there's a tolerance in the country for an unlimited, unregulated
future flow of foreign workers,'' said Donald Kaniewski, political director for
the Laborers International Union of North America, which opposes the guest
worker plan endorsed by Mr. Medina.

The laborers union is one of several unions that have joined the service
employees in a rival labor federation to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. The laborers
currently belong to both federations.

''Let's face it,'' Mr. Kaniewski said. ''There is a reality that immigrants,
particularly those out of status, put downward pressure on wages.''

Mr. Medina, who supports the immigration legislation proposed by Senators John
McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts,
has received support for his guest worker position from Unite Here, a union
that, like the service employees, counts many immigrants among its members. And
Mr. Kaniewski and others emphasize that unions are united in supporting the
legalization of the nation's illegal workers.

But the decision of the service employees union to champion a guest worker plan
alongside the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, often viewed as adversary of organized
labor, has left some of its allies uneasy.

Mr. Medina said he would work to ensure that additional labor protections were
included. He says he firmly believes that the McCain-Kennedy plan offers the
best opportunity to bring undocumented workers out of the shadows.

He points out that this proposal, unlike others that have tied foreign guest
workers to one company, would allow workers to leave the company that applied
for visas on their behalf to find better jobs and better salaries.

But some of his passion for this issue is also personal.

Mr. Medina was 10 when he and his family left Mexico for the United States. His
father had worked in the bracero program, which brought in 4.6 million Mexican
farm workers from 1942 to 1960, and he grew up hearing stories about how those
workers were exploited.

And so on this debate, he said, he could not afford to sit on the sidelines.

''Clearly, this is something very personal to me because of the experiences I
had, working as a farm worker and with my father as a bracero,'' Mr. Medina, 60,
said in an interview earlier this week.

''It's a tough question because of that history,'' he said. ''People are
justifiably concerned to make sure that this program works for everybody, for
the immigrants, for the country, and that it doesn't get used to undermine the
already deteriorating standards of American workers.''

''I think in the process, in the legislative process, we're going to try to get
it to do what we need done,'' he said. ''But we've got to get into the debate,
the discussion in Congress. You can't just simply get into that debate by saying
nothing out there meets our expectations. Because then you can be sitting on the
outside looking in without ever having any chance to solve the problem.''

The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Arlen Specter, Republican of
Pennsylvania, has been working on a new draft of the immigration legislation.
Some union officials hope it will better address the concerns of labor, which
has been increasingly engaged in immigration policy in recent years.

In decades past, labor unions have often viewed immigrants as the enemy,
accusing them of depressing wages and breaking strikes. That view has changed as
the number of immigrants in the work force has surged. In 2000, the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. reversed course and called for the legalization of illegal
immigrants and an end to most sanctions against employers who hire them.

But the question of a temporary guest worker plan remains thorny.

The Kennedy/McCain plan, which has been embraced by labor for its plan to
legalize illegal immigrants who are already in the United States, would allow
employers to bring in 400,000 foreign workers in the first year of the program.
By the end of the sixth year, it could include as many as three million
temporary workers, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said.

Fred Feinstein, a labor expert at the University of Maryland, said many unions
were wrestling with how to advocate for immigrant workers without allowing
immigration policy to create downward pressures on wages and working conditions.

''That's quite a challenge,'' said Mr. Feinstein, who served as general counsel
of the National Labor Relations Board in the 1990's.

Ana Avendano, associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O, said guest worker
programs had historically depressed wages and resulted in worker exploitation.
And many union officials fear that the McCain/Kennedy plan does not ensure that
American workers will not be displaced by the new foreign workers.

Under the plan, an employer is required to post the job on the Department of
Labor's Web site for 30 days and is then free to import temporary workers from
abroad. Union officials fear that the legislation taking shape in the Judiciary
Committee may not ensure that those workers have the right to become citizens.

''That would radically reshape the notion that we have always had of ourselves
as a nation of citizens, not a nation of guests,'' Ms. Avendano said. ''And if
you look at the entire labor movement, I don't think there's majority support
for this kind of guest worker construct at all.''

Mr. Medina, who praised Mr. McCain, the guest of honor at the rally on Thursday
night, said he understood those concerns. He also knows that Republican
opposition may make it difficult to get such a measure passed this year.

''I think we're in an uphill battle, but you know the problem isn't going to go
away,'' Mr. Medina said. ''This immigration system is broken. You can't sweep
that under the rug.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2006



CORRECTION: An article last Friday about disagreement among labor leaders over a
guest worker proposal for foreigners referred imprecisely to the position of
Eliseo Medina, vice president of the Service Employees International Union.
While Mr. Medina supports giving millions of illegal immigrants the right to
work in the United States -- a position shared by President Bush -- he has also
called for those immigrants to be granted citizenship, a position that Mr. Bush
has not articulated.

  The article also referred incorrectly in some copies to the Laborers
International Union of North America, which opposes the guest worker plan. While
the union has joined a labor federation that rivals the A.F.L.-C.I.O., it has
not quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

An article last Friday about disagreement among labor leaders over a guest
worker proposal for foreigners referred imprecisely to the position of Eliseo
Medina, vice president of the Service Employees International Union. While Mr.
Medina supports giving millions of illegal immigrants the right to work in the
United States -- a position shared by President Bush -- he has also called for
those immigrants to be granted citizenship, a position that Mr. Bush has not
articulated.

The article also referred incorrectly in some copies to the Laborers
International Union of North America, which opposes the guest worker plan. While
the union has joined a labor federation that rivals the A.F.L.-C.I.O., it has
not quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eliseo Medina, in tie, vice president of the Service Employees
International Union, joined SEIU Florida Healthcare Union organizers yesterday
in Miami to endorse a guest worker program for illegal immigrants. (Photo by
Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 122 words


An article last Friday about disagreement among labor leaders over a guest
worker proposal for foreigners referred imprecisely to the position of Eliseo
Medina, vice president of the Service Employees International Union.

While Mr. Medina supports giving millions of illegal immigrants the right to
work in the United States -- a position shared by President Bush -- he has also
called for those immigrants to be granted citizenship, a position that Mr. Bush
has not articulated.

The article also referred incorrectly in some copies to the Laborers
International Union of North America, which opposes the guest worker plan. While
the union has joined a labor federation that rivals the A.F.L.-C.I.O., it has
not quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush and Fox Repeat Vows on Immigration

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: CANCUN, Mexico, March 31


Five years after they first pledged to work together to find ways to open legal
channels for Mexicans to seek work in the United States, President Bush and
President Vicente Fox ended a two-day meeting on Friday essentially where they
were in 2001: agreeing on an approach, but unable to win the support they needed
to turn their vision into law.

At a news conference with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada, Mr. Bush and
Mr. Fox spoke with conviction about the reasons they supported comprehensive
immigration changes that would include expanding guest worker programs and
opening new paths to citizenship.

But their comments also made clear that the bold immigration agenda that they
supported at the start of their administrations never got far off the ground, in
part because of their own missteps and miscalculations, but mostly because of
forces out of their control.

''I believe a guest worker program will help us rid the society and the border
of these coyotes, who smuggle people in the back of 18-wheelers,'' Mr. Bush
said. ''I believe it'll help get rid of the document-forgers. I believe it'll
help people on both sides of our border to respect the laws of our border, and
enforce our borders.''

He added, ''I believe it is important to bring people out of the shadows of
American society, so they don't have to fear the life they live.''

Still, the president dodged a question about the plans by Republican leaders in
Congress to press for an immigration plan that does not include guest worker
programs and focuses instead on border security.

When pressed on whether he would veto such a plan, Mr. Bush said, ''I said want
a comprehensive bill. You're presuming there won't be a comprehensive bill. I
believe there will be.''

Prime Minister Harper announced that the three nations had formed a committee of
business leaders to discuss ways to keep North America competitive with Asia.
And he announced a summit meeting on development, scheduled for next year in
Canada.

The longstanding dispute over United States tariffs on imports of Canadian
softwood lumber remained unresolved, with Mr. Bush promising to negotiate and
Mr. Harper threatening legal action.

Mr. Bush stood firm against Canada's opposition to a new law that will require
all people coming into the United States after 2007 -- whether from Canada or
Mexico -- to present a passport or some other tamper-proof document.

For Mr. Bush the past two days have been as much about trying to defuse a debate
over immigration in the United States that pits him against leaders of his own
party, as about reviving a relationship that turned sour after the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11.

For Mr. Fox, the meeting was an opportunity for a little vindication before he
leaves office on Dec. 1. He made sweeping immigration reforms in the United
States the center of his foreign policy. In pursuit of those goals, he has stood
with the United States to defend free trade and tight border security against
leftist leaders across Latin America.

Referring to Mr. Fox and Mr. Bush, Demetrios Papademetriou, co-director of the
Migration Policy Institute, said, ''Both countries misjudged the political
situation in the United States, and so they miscalculated what they could really
deliver to each other.''

Harley Shaiken, director of the Center for Latin American Studies at the
University of California at Berkeley, said of the two presidents, ''They began
dating five years ago. They are dating five years later. There isn't much more
activity than that.''

Mr. Shaiken added: ''In Mr. Fox's case, the causes could be traced to his poor
political skills. For Bush, it was the lack of political capital he put behind
Mexico. But in the end, it's Fox who will leave office a spinster.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and the Economics of Hard Work

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1082 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


IT is asserted both as fact and as argument: the United States needs a constant
flow of immigrants to perform jobs Americans will not stoop to do.

But what if those jobs paid $50 an hour, with benefits, instead of $7 or $10 or
$15?

''Of course there are jobs that few Americans will take because the wages and
working conditions have been so degraded by employers,'' said Jared Bernstein,
of the liberal Economic Policy Institute. ''But there is nothing about
landscaping, food processing, meat cutting or construction that would preclude
someone from doing these jobs on the basis of their nativity. Nothing would keep
anyone, immigrant or native born, from doing them if they paid better, if they
had health care.''

The most comprehensive recent study of immigrant workers comes from the Center
for Immigration Studies, a group that, unlike Mr. Bernstein's, advocates
stricter controls on immigration. The study, by the center's research director,
Steven A. Camarota, found that immigrants are a majority of workers in only 4 of
473 job classifications -- stucco masons, tailors, produce sorters and beauty
salon workers. But even in those four job categories, native-born workers
account for more than 40 percent of the work force.

While it might be a challenge to find an American-born cab driver in New York or
parking lot attendant in Phoenix or grape cutter in the San Joaquin Valley of
California, according to Mr. Camarota's study of census data from 2000-2005, 59
percent of cab drivers in the United States are native born, as are 66 percent
of all valet parkers. Half of all workers in agriculture were born in this
country.

''The idea that there are jobs that Americans won't do is economic gibberish,''
Mr. Camarota said. ''All the big occupations that immigrants are in --
construction, janitorial, even agriculture -- are overwhelmingly done by native
Americans.''

But where they compete for jobs, he said, the immigrants have driven up the
jobless rate for some Americans. According to his study, published in March,
unemployment among the native born with less than a high school education was
14.3 percent in 2005; the figure for the immigrant population was 7.4 percent.

While Mr. Bernstein would agree that the least-educated American workers are at
a disadvantage, he does not favor curbs on immigration. Even the least-skilled
Americans benefit from the presence of a large pool of immigrant workers, Mr.
Bernstein said. He said that the 11 million illegal immigrants are consumers,
too, creating demand for goods and services and the jobs they produce. He also
said their willingness to work at low wages helps keep inflation in check,
benefiting the nation as a whole.

''It's quite clear that immigrants lead to lower prices of goods and services,
and the lower inflation helps boost the economy, and that helps all Americans,''
Mr. Bernstein said. ''You have a significant increase in the labor supply due to
immigrant inflows, yet the wage effects seem isolated among the least educated,
and they're not huge.''

But George J. Borjas, a professor of economics and social policy at the Kennedy
School of Government at Harvard University, said he believed that the flow of
migrants had significantly depressed wages for Americans in virtually all job
categories and income levels. His study found that the average annual wage loss
for all American male workers from 1980 to 2000 was $1,200, or 4 percent, and
nearly twice that, in percentage terms, for those without a high school diploma.
The impact was also disproportionately high on African-Americans and
Hispanic-Americans, Professor Borjas found.

''What this is, is a huge redistribution of wealth away from workers who compete
with immigrants to those who employ them,'' he said.

There is one place and one category of work in which the ''jobs Americans will
not do'' mantra appears to be close to true --the salad bowl of California. Tim
Chelling, the communications director for the Western Growers Association, a
cooperative of big farm operators, said that last winter growers in California's
Imperial Valley needed 300 workers to harvest lettuce and broccoli.

They went to the local unemployment office, he said, and posted a notice seeking
workers, who would be paid about $9 an hour and receive bare-bones health
insurance. ''Apparently one guy showed up, and he didn't last through the first
morning,'' Mr. Chelling said. All the jobs went to Mexican laborers, most of
them probably illegal, he said.

Mr. Chelling, whose group supports liberalized immigration laws and guest worker
programs, argued that the use of immigrant labor was not a question of money,
though growers certainly prefer to pay low wages to keep costs down. Farm labor
is back-breaking, he said, requiring endurance, dexterity and patience that few
Americans possess.

Last weekend, some 500,000 people took to the streets of Los Angeles to protest
a tough immigration bill passed by the House in December and to put pressure on
the Senate, which is debating the issue now. In the crowd were very few
African-American faces, noted Ronald W. Walters, a professor of government and
politics at the University of Maryland. Their economic prospects are directly
threatened by the huge influx of illegal immigrants, he said. African-Americans
are competing for jobs in construction, hotels and restaurants, meat packing and
textiles, he said, and they lose out to immigrants willing to accept lower pay
and fewer benefits.

''The African-American leadership has a lot of angst about this,'' he said,
adding: ''It's not just a black problem, but we are the most acutely affected.
The fact is, it's hurting us.''

Joel Kotkin, a fellow at the New America Foundation, a public policy institute,
said that the American economy is large enough to absorb most of the new
immigrants without pushing too many native-born Americans to the margins.

But he said the situation could change dramatically if the economy were to enter
a downturn, particularly in the housing sector where thousands of immigrants are
laborers. If the housing bubble popped, Mr. Kotkin said, competition for the
remaining jobs would be fierce and could stoke anti-immigrant sentiments. He
recalled the anti-immigrant proposition approved by Californians in 1994, when
the state was mired in recession. ''The important factor is the state of the
economy,'' he said. ''An economy that is growing rapidly can absorb these people
more easily than one that isn't.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jobs Lost and Found -- At California construction sites like
this one, well-paid work that used to go to native-born Americans is going to
lower-paid immigrants. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Regaining Control of Our Borders

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 81 words



To the Editor:

Your editorial didn't mention one ''fix'' that is absolutely necessary to make
any guest-worker plan succeed: relieving local governments and institutions of
the crippling expense of providing health care, education and public services to
the low-paid foreign workers.

The employers of guest workers must either provide them a living wage with
health benefits or pay into a fund to reimburse localities for their added
costs.

Eleanor Egan
Costa Mesa, Calif., Oct. 14, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Checks Planned for Illegal Workers and Their Employers

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1


Employers in the United States will soon be given a more reliable way to verify
the immigration or citizenship status of new hires, Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff said Thursday. That system will then be followed up with
tougher enforcement of immigration laws, he said.

''We owe the employers tools to verify their employees in a prompt and accurate
manner,'' Mr. Chertoff said during a news conference. ''Once we give them those
tools, though, they owe it to us to use those tools, and if they don't, we then
have to sanction them.''

Mr. Chertoff provided little detail on how the system would work, saying only
that an announcement would be made in the next several weeks.

But senior officials at Homeland Security said one change would probably involve
revising the notification that employers receive when a Social Security number
or other identification information provided by a new hire is rejected as
invalid by the Social Security Administration.

''Employers have not been provided with a good explanation of what they need to
do and what is expected of them within eyes of the law'' when they receive such
a notice, said Russ Knocke, a Homeland Security spokesman.

Homeland Security also wants to expand the use of an Internet-based system,
called Basic Pilot Project, which allows employers to use information provided
by a job applicant to quickly verify the person's immigration or citizenship
status.

Today, only about 5,000 of the nation's approximately seven million employers
use Basic Pilot, according to Citizenship and Immigration Services, which
operates the program. The Bush administration is considering mandating use of
the system, Mr. Chertoff said.

Such a move might require legislation, and even then would take months if not
years to initiate because a more robust computer system would be needed to
handle the enormous surge in use, Homeland Security officials said Thursday.

In addition, the existing Basic Pilot system is vulnerable to abuse by job
applicants who have assumed false identities, a recent report by the Government
Accountability Office said.

Few employers in the United States now face fines or criminal charges for hiring
illegal immigrants. Between 1999 and 2004, the number of notices of intent to
fine an employer dropped from 417 to fewer than 5, the G.A.O. report said. The
decline was attributed, in part, to Homeland Security's focus on potential
terrorism threats rather than on a more general immigration crackdown.

Mr. Chertoff said he recognized that his department must expand its enforcement
efforts. It has begun hiring 750 criminal investigators, immigration enforcement
agents and deportation officers, as provided in the budget for the 2006 fiscal
year.

''We are digging ourselves out of a hole which it took 20 years to dig ourselves
into,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''And it's not going to happen overnight.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Chertoff, Homeland Security chief, announced the plans.
(Photo by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Driver In Bus Fire Is Granted Bond

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 112 words


An illegal immigrant from Mexico who is accused in the deaths of 23 nursing home
residents in a bus fire while they fled Hurricane Rita was granted bond and
should be freed by Monday, his lawyer said. The defendant, Juan Robles
Gutierrez, 37, who was driving the bus, has been detained in Houston for two
weeks as a material witness to a federal investigation. Prosecutors have deposed
Mr. Robles, above, said his lawyer, George Shaffer, who was hired by the Mexican
government. Magistrate Judge Calvin Botley granted $50,000 bond, but Mr. Robles,
who faces charges for being in the country illegally, cannot leave federal
custody until immigration officials also grant bond.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prosecutor Says Terror Suspect Knew He Was Helping Member of Al Qaeda

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 819 words


A young Pakistani man tried to deceive American immigration authorities to help
a known member of Al Qaeda enter the United States from Pakistan 18 months after
the Sept. 11 attacks, a federal prosecutor said yesterday during closing
arguments in the man's trial.

The defendant, Uzair Paracha, knew that his countryman was a Qaeda operative
because his father had told him so, said the prosecutor, Karl Metzner. Mr.
Paracha's father had been a business associate of the Taliban regime in
Afghanistan and had met with Osama bin Laden there, Mr. Metzner said.

''The answer is simple: He knew,'' said Mr. Metzner, an assistant United States
attorney.

Mr. Metzner was responding to Mr. Paracha's earlier testimony, under
cross-examination, that he did not know about the Qaeda connection, and merely
thought he was doing a favor for a friend of his father's.

Mr. Paracha, 25, has been on trial since Nov. 9 in Federal District Court in
Manhattan, charged with five counts of terrorist conspiracy and providing
material resources and services to Al Qaeda. He is accused of posing as another
Pakistani, Majid Khan, to get American documents so that Mr. Khan could travel
to the United States.

In a written agreement presented as evidence, the prosecution and the defense
stipulated that Mr. Khan was a Qaeda operative. Mr. Khan, who has political
asylum in the United States and lived for years in Baltimore before returning to
Pakistan, is in United States custody at an unidentified location. Mr. Paracha's
father, Saifullah Paracha, a Pakistani real estate developer, is in military
detention in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Uzair Paracha confessed that he had posed as Mr. Khan and that he knew Mr. Khan
was involved with Al Qaeda during three days of questioning by F.B.I. agents and
New York City police officers in March 2003, the prosecution has said. In eight
other sessions after his arrest, with a lawyer present, he substantially
confirmed his early account, Mr. Metzner said.

But Mr. Paracha testified that his confession was false, and that he had made it
because he was exhausted and scared during the long hours of interrogation. He
said he believed that if he told the agents he was helping Al Qaeda, they would
view him as a cooperative witness and let him return to Pakistan.

''I was saying those things because I thought that was what they wanted to
hear,'' Mr. Paracha said.

But Edward David Wilford, a defense lawyer, said in his summation yesterday that
Mr. Paracha ''was a dupe in every sense of the word.'' He told the jury that Mr.
Paracha lacked ''street smarts,'' and had been worn down by the agents. Evidence
at trial showed that the police had found Mr. Khan's Social Security card,
several credit cards and his Maryland driver's license in Mr. Paracha's
briefcase. Mr. Khan needed American travel documents to return to the United
States from Pakistan because he had left without giving the authorities the
notice required of political refugees.

Mr. Paracha admitted yesterday that to help create the impression that Mr. Khan
was still in the United States, he called the United States immigration service
from a pay telephone near Madison Square Garden, claiming to be Mr. Khan.
Witnesses testified that when Mr. Paracha was arrested, he was carrying a key to
a Maryland post office box that Mr. Khan had rented to receive immigration
documents. He also had a handwritten list of instructions from Mr. Khan telling
him how to deceive the authorities to obtain the needed documents. But the
documents were never issued, and Mr. Khan never made his trip to the United
States.

Mr. Paracha confirmed that Mr. Khan had given him the identification cards at a
meeting in a Karachi restaurant with his father.

Under cross-examination, Mr. Paracha confirmed that his father had met with Mr.
bin Laden in Afghanistan sometime in the year before the Sept. 11 attacks. Mr.
Paracha testified that his father had told him that he ''admired'' Mr. bin
Laden, saying he was impressed because he was ''a humble person and he had a
simple way of life.''

In his confessions to antiterror agents, Mr. Paracha said that in 2002, Qaeda
operatives asked his father to hold about $200,000 in cash for them. A deposit
of $277,000 from Al Qaeda to a bank account of his father's in Pakistan was made
in May 2003, after Mr. Paracha was detained, Mr. Metzner said.

Prosecutors claimed that Mr. Khan wanted to return to the United States to
launch attacks on gas stations here. The evidence in the trial about Mr. Khan's
intentions was thin.

But Mr. Paracha's testimony was also confusing, as he could not remember when he
had lied to the agents and when he had told them the truth. ''At different times
I said absolutely contradictory things,'' Mr. Paracha said.

Mr. Paracha was held as a material witness from March 2003 until Aug. 8 of that
year, when he was formally charged with supporting terrorism.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Uzair Paracha is charged with five counts of terrorist
conspiracy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 14, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Witnesses Appraise Supreme Court Nominee's Approach to the Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; COURT IN TRANSITION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2410 words


Following are excerpts from the Senate Judiciary Committee's confirmation
hearing yesterday for Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr., President Bush's nominee for
the Supreme Court. The senators heard witnesses who included Prof. Nora
Demleitner, Hofstra University School of Law, former law clerk to Judge Alito;
Prof. Erwin Chemerinsky, Duke University Law School; Prof. Anthony Kronman, Yale
Law School; Prof. Charles Fried, Harvard Law School, former solicitor general of
the United States; Prof. Laurence H. Tribe, Harvard Law School; Kate Michelman,
former president, Naral Pro-Choice America; Jack White, former law clerk to
Judge Alito; Theodore Shaw, president, NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund.
The statements were recorded by The New York Times. A full transcript:
nytimes.com/supremecourt.

Political Asylum

PROFESSOR DEMLEITNER -- While I clerked for him, he had to decide the case of
Parastoo Fatin. Ms. Fatin had left Iran in order in part to be escaping the
regime of Ayatollah Khomeini. She applied for asylum in the United States but
was denied by the Immigration Court and by the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Now, without revealing any confidences, I can tell you that Judge Alito was very
much moved by the personal tragedy of the situation and the moral dilemma Ms.
Fatin would face. If returned to Iran, she would either be unable to speak her
deep feminist convictions or the Iranian regime would penalize her.

Now, the problem with her case was that there was really an absence of favorable
case law, and even worse, a very thin record that indicated only very limited
opposition on her part to the Iranian regime.

Now, the judge did not see himself in a position to help Ms. Fatin, who was,
however, ultimately permitted to stay in the United States. He, however, did
take this opportunity to write one of the most progressive opinions on
gender-based asylum law. Now, his decision was the first to recognize that
gender alone could constitute a basis for asylum.

This revolution in asylum law has not been widely recognized outside a very
small group of asylum practitioners, and neither has Judge Alito gotten a whole
lot of credit for garnering the votes of both of his fellow panelists for this
decision, one of whom was a Nixon appointee.

Presidential Power

PROFESSOR CHEMERINSKY -- The key question for this committee is whether Samuel
Alito will continue this tradition of enforcing checks and balances, or whether
he'll be a rubber stamp for presidential power.

I have carefully read the writings, the speeches and the decisions of Samuel
Alito in this area, and they all point in one direction: a very troubling
pattern of great deference to executive authority. I've closely followed the
hearings this week, and I know you're familiar with the examples.

To mention just a few: In 1984, while in the solicitor general's office, Samuel
Alito wrote a memo saying that he believed that the attorney general should have
absolute immunity to civil suits for money damages of engaging in illegal
wiretapping, a position the Supreme Court rejected in language that seems so
appropriate now and saying there would be too great a danger of violation of
rights from executive officials, who, in the zeal to protect national security,
would go too far.

The next year, he said there should be increased use of presidential signing
statements. He said, quote: The president should have the last word as to the
meaning of statutes. There should be an increase in executive power.

As you know, in a number of writings and speeches, he said he believed in the
unitary executive theory. Now, there's a good deal of discussion this week as to
what that means. But if you look at the literature of constitutional law, those
who believe in a unitary executive truly want a radical change in American
government. They believe that independent regulatory agencies like the
Securities Exchange Commission or the Federal Communication Commission are
unconstitutional. They believe the special prosecutor's unconstitutional. They
reject the ability of Congress to limit the executive.

Legal Integrity

PROFESSOR KRONMAN -- Sam was hardworking and ferociously bright; no one, I
think, would challenge that. But that wasn't the first thing that impressed me
about Sam. What impressed me first and most emphatically was his generosity and
gentleness. When Sam spoke, in class or out, others listened; but when others
spoke, Sam listened, and not just in the superficial sense of waiting politely
until they had finished, but in the deeper and more consequential sense of
straining to grasp the good sense of their position and to see it in its most
attractive light.

Sam always spoke with modesty, but, even when he was defending a position that
he believed clearly to be right, did so with the knowledge that he might be
wrong. Learned Hand once described the spirit of liberty as the spirit that's
not too sure of itself. That's a phrase that's always had a special meaning for
me, and it well describes the quality in Sam that I noticed from the start.

I noticed something else and admired something else, as well, and that was Sam's
faith in the law. Sam believed in the integrity of the law and in the essential
fairness of its processes. Anyone who has studied the law knows that it is not a
mechanical system. It requires moral judgments at many points.

But there is all the difference in the world between a person who approaches the
law from the outside and views it an instrument for the advancement of some
program, of one kind or another and a person who approaches it from the inside
and whose fundamental leading allegiance is to the law itself. Sam falls clearly
in that second category.

The Solicitor General's Office

PROFESSOR FRIED -- The Reagan administration, no doubt, had a point of view
about the law, just as did the F.D.R. administration in 1933 or the J.F.K.
administration in 1961. That is not unusual. That's what elections are about.
Part of that view encompassed the notion that the lower courts had gone too far
in limiting the ability of law enforcement; that the lower courts had moved too
far away from an appropriate view of affirmative action, as expressed by Justice
Powell in Bakke, towards quotas; and, I suppose, emblematic of the notion that
courts sometimes just make things up was the notion that Roe v. Wade was
incorrectly decided -- a notion, which, may I say, was shared by people across
the political spectrum: -- Professor Paul Freund; Archibald Cox expressed that
view as late as 1985; and Dean Ely.

Now, the first job of the staff of the solicitor general's office was to make
sure that when the solicitor general presented the solicitor general's client's
position to the Supreme Court this was done in a professional, correct and
respectful way. That office had career lawyers, some of whom stretched back to
the time of Lyndon Johnson. I, myself, appointed as deputies people who I knew
to be Democrats -- liberal Democrats. None of that bothered me or bothered them
because we were a professional office and they understood that their work was
professional work. That is exactly how Judge Alito viewed his work.

A Decisive Vote

PROFESSOR TRIBE -- It is quite clear that there are two central concerns in the
country and in the Senate with respect to this nomination. And they do not
relate, honestly, to what a truly admirable collegial, modest, thoughtful and
brilliant fellow Sam Alito is. I don't mean to call him Sam, I don't really know
him the way that my colleague Charles does.

They relate to whether Justice Alito might, by casting a decisive fifth vote on
many cases, narrow the scope of personal liberty, especially for women, and
broaden the scope of presidential power at a time when we see, dramatically, the
dangers of an unfettered executive by weakening the ability of both Congress and
the courts to restrict presidential assertions of authority.

A word first about liberty: It is certainly true that in the solicitor general's
office the memorandum that Judge Alito wrote for the solicitor general did not
urge that the court be confronted frontally, overrule Roe. But he made it clear
even then that the strategy he thought wise to pursue was a step-by-step process
toward the ultimate goal of overruling Roe. That is the only prospect on the
table.

I assure you that if the Supreme Court actually overrules Roe, I will have
thousands of students to tell that I predicted the wrong thing. That's not the
danger. They won't say Roe v. Wade is hereby overruled. What they will do -- and
I'm saying will because I am assuming that confirmation will occur. Maybe it
won't. But with the vote of Judge Alito as Justice Alito the court will cut back
on Roe v. Wade, step by step. Not just to the point where, as the moderate
American center has it, abortion is cautiously restricted, but to the point
where the fundamental underlying right to liberty becomes a hollow shell.

The Abortion Issue

MS. MICHELMAN -- Predicting how any given judge will decide any given case is a
Washington parlor game, in my view, that distracts from the central issue. That
issue is whether we any longer will recognize limits on the government's
authority to reach into the most intimate areas of our private lives.

There is nothing in Judge Alito's lengthy public record to suggest that he
recognizes such limits for anyone and even less so for women. And there is much
in his record that indicates, I think, clearly and beyond the boundaries of
reasonable dispute that he rejects the idea of privacy, personal privacy as a
fundamental American ideal.

A woman's right to choose is a powerful manifestation of privacy, but it is one
right among many and all of them should concern us. There is no sense in Judge
Alito's writings or rulings that privacy is a fundamental constitutional right.
In his record, not only are individuals often powerless against the prerogatives
of the state, individuals are more often than not simply absent altogether.

In many ways, what Judge Alito has written is less disturbing that what he
omits, any sense of how his legal rulings bear on real people whose lives are
shaped by his decisions. When he ruled that a Pennsylvania law requiring women
to notify their husbands before obtaining an abortion was not, quote, an undue
burden, there was no sense that a woman like me ever existed or even mattered.
When he wrote that commonly used methods of birth control could be classified as
methods of abortion, there was no indication he considered the women who would
be forced into unwanted pregnancies.

Legal Analysis

MR. WHITE -- In order to provide some context for my comments, I'd like to share
some personal information about myself. I'm the son of African-American parents
born in the segregated South. Their respect for the recognition of civil
liberties that enabled them to succeed and raise principled children inculcated
the same respect in me. This respect is what led me to become a member of the
N.A.A.C.P. and the A.C.L.U.

The same respect for our freedoms as Americans encouraged me to serve our
country, after graduating from West Point, on active duty in the United States
Army.

Now, as I clerked for Judge Alito, I saw a deep sense of duty, diligence,
humanity and respect for his role as a federal appellate judge. Judge Alito
required searching analysis of the factual and procedural background of every
case. He required thorough evaluation of the applicable law in every case. He
required -- he -- he uniformly applied the relevant law to the specific facts of
every case.

Judge Alito recognized that every case was the most important case to the
parties and attorneys with something at stake. There was no wavering from this
consistent, predictable method of his judicial decision-making process. Working
for Judge Alito, I saw in him an abiding loyalty to a fair judicial process, as
opposed to an enslaved inclination toward a personal or ideological -- or to a
political or personal ideology.

What I found most intriguing and particularly exceptional about Judge Alito's
judicial decision-making process was the conspicuous absence of personal
predilections. I never witnessed an occasion when personal or ideological
beliefs motivated a specific outcome in a case. Indeed, after a year of working
closely with the judge on cases concerning a wide variety of legal issues, I
left New Jersey without knowing Judge Alito's personal beliefs on any of them.

The Issue of Race

MR. SHAW -- I want to be very clear because one of the members of this committee
raised the issue of whether anyone was alleging that Judge Alito harbors a bias.
I want to be very clear at the Legal Defense Fund -- on behalf of the Legal
Defense Fund -- that we are not saying that he harbors racial bias or that he's
a racist. That would, as I indicated before, diminish all of us.

Whatever his reason for ruling the way he does in cases, the record is
consistently clear, as my colleague and friend Reginald Turner has indicated and
as our report has indicated. It is very difficult for African-American
plaintiffs in civil rights cases to prevail. Now it's not limited to
African-American plaintiffs, but those are the individuals whom we represent at
the Legal Defense Fund. Certainly his view of the interpretation of civil rights
laws extends to gender discrimination, some of the cases of which we've
highlighted in our report. And it extends to other areas with respect to
individual rights.

Now, we believe that his views, with respect to reapportionment, which have been
aired here are deeply troubling. We believe in the area of criminal justice, his
views are troubling. But I particularly want to point to an area about which we
have a deep concern.

The analogy with baseball has been very popular -- and I want to end on this
point -- before this committee and in these nominations. And Judge Alito at one
time used to like to say about affirmative action that Henry Aaron would not be
regarded as the all-time home run king and hero that he is if the fences had
been moved in whenever he came to bat.

I think that reflects a fundamental misunderstanding about affirmative action.
The issue, with respect to civil rights and affirmative action advocates, is not
asking -- is not about asking that the fences be moved in. It's about asking
about an opportunity to take the field, to stand at the plate. It's about
opportunity to play the game.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack White, a former law clerk to Judge Alito, testified
yesterday at the hearings. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 19, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming Soon, 9 Million Stories in the Crowded City

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1265 words


With higher birth rates among Hispanic and Asian New Yorkers, immigrants
continuing to gravitate to New York City and a housing boom transforming all
five boroughs, the city is struggling to cope with a phenomenon that few other
cities in the Northeast or Midwest now face: a growing population. It is
expected to pass nine million by 2020.

New York might need an extra million or so slices of cake for its 400th birthday
party in 2025.

Estimated today at a record 8.2 million, the population is expected to reach
nearly 9.4 million in 2025. But that projected growth poses potential problems
that New York is just starting to grapple with: ensuring that there are enough
places in which to live, work, attend school and play and that transportation
and energy are adequate.

Elaborating on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's disclosure last month that city
planners were drafting a strategy to cope with this expected growth, Daniel L.
Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, said the city could
accommodate a million additional people or more, but only if it began planning
for their needs now.

''We have the capacity through rezoning and underutilized land to go well over
that number,'' he said. ''But you cannot simply divorce the issue of growth from
the infrastructure required to support it. It opens up great opportunities only
if the growth is smart, if we have the things that make cities worth living
in.''

Mr. Doctoroff said the strategy would explore opportunities for growth both
citywide and in 188 individual neighborhoods. It would determine how land use
regulations and other constraints might be altered to create sufficient housing,
schools, subway routes and parks, preserve factory jobs and identify sites for
less desirable but necessary structures, including power plants.

Last month, the New York Building Congress, a trade group, estimated that
proposed development, including the World Trade Center site and the Hudson Yards
in Manhattan and the Atlantic Terminal area in Brooklyn, would generate a 21
percent increase in jobs by 2025. That, the group said, would require new
sources of electricity.

In his State of the City address last month, Mr. Bloomberg said that he would
present a ''strategic land use plan'' in April. That will explore the potential
for growth, identify the constraints and recommend how to provide the housing,
transportation, energy and other public works, including parks, to accommodate a
larger population, the mayor said.

''Making sure that every community shares in the New York we are building also
requires us to look to the future and plan for the future in ways we haven't
dared in decades,'' the mayor said.

Among the goals of the plan, Mr. Doctoroff said, are to produce greater
geographic diversity -- more jobs in Downtown Brooklyn, Flushing and Jamaica in
Queens, the South Bronx, Harlem and the Far West Side -- and to preserve
manufacturing jobs.

Except for the clothing industry, manufacturing jobs have not decreased year to
year for the first time since World War II.

City officials rarely engage in long-range planning, particularly for growth. A
short-lived proposal for ''planned shrinkage'' was advanced in the mid-1970's,
sandwiched between a comprehensive statement of urban challenges and potential
solutions in 1969 and a candid but still largely optimistic assessment in 1987.

''This will be different,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''Much more practical.''

New York has been the most populous American city since the first census in
1790. Almost steadily since the 1940's, more people have been leaving the city
for other parts of the country than have arrived here from other areas of the
nation.

Growth in the 1980's and especially the 1990's has been largely driven by
immigration. Foreigners are expected to account for much of the growth in the
next two decades, growth that, according to the forecasts, would keep New York
in first place among the nation's cities and maintain the New York metropolitan
region either as the largest or, at least, tied with Los Angeles.

One recent study, by Regina Armstrong of Urbanomics, a consultant to the New
York Metropolitan Transportation Council, an intergovernmental planning group,
also projects that by 2025, the Bronx will be home to 1.5 million people and
Brooklyn to 2.8 million -- surpassing their mid-20th century peaks.

Queens will have 2.8 million people, the study says, and Staten Island nearly
600,000 -- records for both boroughs. Manhattan, with 1.7 million, will still be
short of the more than two million people who lived there early in the last
century, many in densely packed tenements. Other projections computed by state
demographers suggest that by 2020, Queens will overtake Brooklyn as the most
populous borough.

The Urbanomics projections say that among non-Hispanic whites, births will again
outnumber deaths beginning after 2010 and that their net migration from the city
will peak by 2015 and that the number of black residents will begin to decline
in 2015. They also say that after 2010 more Hispanic people will be leaving New
York than arriving but that their birthrates will remain high, and that the
number from Asia will continue to increase. After 2025, the population is
projected to then expand more slowly, to nearly 9.5 million in 2030, for a 16
percent increase since 2005.

Compared to the last five years, according to the projections, between 2025 and
2030 among Asians the total of births over deaths will more than double, and the
net migration -- people arriving versus leaving -- will more than triple.

Population projections are notoriously subject to and variables -- no one can
predict the impact of terrorism, a possible resurgence in crime, medical
advances or epidemics, the global economy or the effects of technological
changes on jobs.

Historically, those predictions tend to have overestimated growth, inspired, in
part, by the optimism of the moment or to justify the ambitious agendas of
developers and utility executives.

''The overall driving concept is that a favorable employment situation in the
New York region will attract an increase in population,'' said Prof. Joel E.
Cohen, who heads the Laboratory of Populations at the Rockefeller University.

''I am not saying these projections are better or worse than lots of local area
projections. They just should be taken with large grains of salt. Historical
analyses of how projections made in the past have done when the future came
around have shown much larger errors than anticipated by the people who made the
projections.''

The latest official census figures actually showed a slight decline in New York
State's population. But, on the basis of housing construction, the city has
successfully challenged recent estimates, and the Census Bureau has accepted the
city's figure of 8,168,338 as of 2004. New census estimates are due out next
month.

While some demographers question how long growth will continue, state and city
officials say they generally agree with the overall projections.

''We're in the same ballpark,'' said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the Department
of City Planning's population division.

Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said that with
nearby suburbs nearly saturated, the city was no longer at as much of a
competitive disadvantage. Still, he said, ''New York's got to find a place to
put another 1.2 to 1.5 million New Yorkers,'' adding, ''One way to keep these
forecasts from happening is to make it prohibitively expensive to live and work
here.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development,
at the South Street Seaport. He says New York can accommodate a million
additional people or more, but only if the city begins planning for them now.
(Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 36)
(Photo by James Bronzan/The New York Times
photographs by Don Hogan Charles [top], Richard Perry [Bronx], Robert Caplin
[Brooklyn], and Barton Silverman [Queens]/The New York Times
Mary DiBiase Blaich for the New York Times [Staten Island]
 Seth Wenig/Reuters [Manhattan])(pg. 33)Chart: ''Population Boom''Projected
change in each borough.Bronx: 16%2025: 1,546,8002000: 1,332,700Brooklyn:
12%2025: 2,764,3002000: 2,465,300Manhattan: 10%2025: 1,694,2002000:
1,537,200Queens: 24%2025: 2,756,3002000: 2,229,400Staten Island: 33%2025:
591,0002000: 443,700Chart: ''Citywide Changes''The city's population is
projected to reach nearly 9.4 million by 2025.Graph tracks total New York City
population from 1970 through 2025.The various racial and ethnic groups will
contribute to that growth very differently.PROJECTED CHANGE IN POPULATION, 2000
to 2025White: -880,828Black: +24,407Asian: +1,327,052Hispanic: +577,355The
city's economic makeup is also projected to change, becoming generally
wealthier.HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION, IN 1999 DOLLARS2000Less than $50,000:
59%$50,000 to $99,999: 27$100,000 and more: 142025Less than $50,000: 47%$50,000
to $99,999: 17$100,000 and more: 36(Source by Urbanomics)(pg. 33)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Poetic Justice for a Feared Immigrant Stop

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1173 words

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND, Calif., Dec. 1


It was known, simply, as ''the wooden building.'' For 30 years, from 1910 to
1940, the barren walls of the Angel Island Immigration Station gave mute
testimony to the experiences of roughly 175,000 Chinese immigrants who were
detained and exhaustively interrogated on this island in San Francisco Bay, the
West Coast's insidious version of Ellis Island.

''Today is the last day of winter,'' begins one of nearly 300 poems
surreptitiously carved in Chinese characters by detainees on the walls.

''Tomorrow morning is the vernal equinox/ One year's prospects have changed to
another/ Sadness kills the person in the wooden building.''

On Thursday, this little-spoken-about place, the physical embodiment of the
Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which was intended to prevent Chinese laborers
from entering the country, received long-awaited recognition when President Bush
signed into law the Angel Island Immigration Station Restoration and
Preservation Act.

The legislation, a result of a 35-year effort by the nonprofit Angel Island
Immigration Foundation, authorizes up to $15 million to establish a museum and
genealogical research center on the island and to help preserve two original
structures, including barracks with chicken-wire clerestories and melancholy
graffiti -- eloquent poems carved on wooden walls and routinely puttied and
painted over by the authorities. The immigration station, nestled in a
eucalyptus grove on the largest island in the bay, is a national historic
landmark, though it is closed to the public.

The facility was the point of entry for roughly 75 percent of Chinese immigrants
to the West Coast, and its preservation has underscored the story of the ''paper
sons and daughters'' who used false identities to circumvent the Exclusion Act,
the first legislation in United States history to ban a specific ethnic group.
For Chinese-Americans like Li Keng Wong, now 79, who was detained with her
family as a 7-year-old in 1933, it has been an emotional journey.

Even today, she can ruefully recite from memory the description from her
investigation file assembled by the authorities: ''Female of the Chinese race.
Faint pit near outer corner right eye. Height, in socks, 2 ft 11 1/2 in.'' The
faint pit, a scar from a childhood infection, is still visible beneath her
bangs. The artifice and fear with which Mrs. Wong and her family lived, even as
they prospered, was repeated by thousands of immigrants. In contrast to Ellis
Island, where millions of European immigrants were processed largely with swift
industrial efficiency, the Angel Island station was designed for exclusion.

Upon a ship's arrival, officials would separate the immigrants on board, with
those bearing first-class paperwork allowed to disembark in San Francisco, while
those remaining -- mostly Chinese, but also a smattering of Japanese, Filipino,
Indian, Russian and other groups -- ferried to Angel Island.

''Ellis Island was created to let Europeans in,'' said Robert E. Barde, deputy
director of the Institute of Business and Economic Research at the University of
California, Berkeley, who is writing a book on immigration. ''Angel Island was
created to keep the Chinese out.'' The Exclusion Act, repealed in 1943 when
China became America's ally in World War II, was the culmination of decades of
anti-Chinese sentiment in the aftermath of an economic depression that resulted
in mob violence and lynching.

Chinese laborers had been coming to America since the Gold Rush, bearing ''a
harsh purse with a reverence for copper coins,'' in the words of one poem on the
barracks walls. They worked for 12 cents an hour laying the tracks of the
Central Pacific Railroad and erecting levees in the swamps of the Sacramento-San
Joaquin delta. The law was intended to end the arrival of Chinese laborers and
to bar Chinese from becoming citizens. At Angel Island, this meant grueling
interrogations and humiliating physical examinations.

In 1906, the San Francisco earthquake and fire destroyed municipal and birth
records, creating an opportunity for the city's Chinese residents to claim
citizenship and to try to bring friends, family and fellow villagers, often with
false identities, to ''Gam Saan'' -- the Gold Mountain -- or America.

Like the poems on the walls, Mrs. Wong's five days on the island as a little
girl remain deeply etched. Her father, or ''Baba, '' Soew Hong Gee, came to the
United States from a small village in the Pearl River delta as a 16-year-old in
1912, presumably as a ''paper son.''

Sipping green tea in her kitchen in a suburb overlooking the bay, Mrs. Wong
recalled the ruse that brought her family to San Francisco. Because wives were
prohibited from entering, it was decided that her mother, Suey Ting Gee, then
28, Mr. Gee's second wife, would pose as her ''yee,'' or aunt. Blood relatives
were allowed to emigrate.

''Baba could not bring Mama as his wife, only as his sister,'' she recalled.
''He gave us coaching papers. Mama and Baba said if we made a mistake, the white
officers would deport us.''

Even her 3-year-old sister, Lai Wah, was required to remember. ''She was always
saying, 'Yee, yee, yee, yee,''' Mrs. Wong, a retired teacher, said. ''But
whenever we were in a corner together, we would whisper 'Mama.' ''

In a recently completed memoir, ''Good Fortune: My Journey to Gold Mountain,''
to be published later this month by Peachtree Publishers, Mrs. Wong recalls the
intense interrogations, to be corroborated by family members -- questions like
''What is your living room floor made of?'' and ''What direction does your house
in China face?'' ''I was praying 'Don't let me trip up, 'Don't let me trip up,'
'' Mrs. Wong recalled, her girlhood anxiety palpable 72 years later.

Until recently, Mrs. Wong refused to set foot on the island and never spoke
about her experience, even to her own children. Her parents, like many of their
generation, never mentioned Angel Island. She eventually made the trip, a mile's
ferry ride from Tiburon, in neighboring Marin County, at the encouragement of a
writing teacher.

''I saw the place where I was incarcerated,'' she said. ''It was just like a
liberation. At last I could talk about it.''

The station closed in 1940. Its history was largely swept aside until 1970, when
a park ranger noticed Chinese characters chiseled on the vacant barracks walls,
which were scheduled for demolition. Since then, the revitalization has been a
grass-roots movement, aided by $15 million in state bond money as well as
support from Asian-American politicians.

The site, to be opened on a limited basis in 2007, will include refurbished
barracks in which the poems on the walls will literally be brought to light.

Their presence has already given young people like Erika Gee, 33, the
foundation's educational director, whose grandparents came through Angel Island,
a chance to retrieve their own powerful, not-so-distant history.

''It is just a wooden building,'' Ms. Gee said, softly. ''Yet there are so many
voices that still speak.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A room in the main barracks at the Angel Island immigration
station.
 Roy McNamee of Angel Island State Park in San Francisco Bay pointing out poetry
on the wall of a barracks. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York
Times)Map of California highlighting Angel Island: Angel Island was Chinese
immigrants' main West Coast gateway.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Return of Congress: New Tests for Bush

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1429 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28


With the Senate on the verge of confirming Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. to the
Supreme Court and Republican leadership elections looming in the House, Congress
returns next week in a volatile climate that will test whether President Bush
can reassert himself this election year.

In a stark contrast from last year, when Republican leaders fell in line behind
Mr. Bush as he embarked on what would be a losing effort to overhaul Social
Security, the president, weakened after a series of setbacks in the past year,
now faces a challenge in rallying his own party behind some of his most
important initiatives.

He is pressing for Congress to complete work on a package of budget cuts, a
reauthorization of antiterrorism legislation and a measure to combat illegal
immigration. But in each case, enough Republicans are balking to put the outcome
in doubt, a sign of the legislative difficulty that the White House faces as
lawmakers focus on what matters most to them -- winning re-election.

''People look at public opinion polls, and members of Congress are no
exception,'' Representative David Dreier, the California Republican who is
chairman of the House Rules Committee, said. ''I think it would be a stretch to
argue that President Bush is at his strongest point. But I do think there is an
underlying understanding and respect for his leadership skills.''

Democrats have yet to show that they can mount a consistently effective
opposition to the administration and the Republican majority on Capitol Hill,
and they may have an uphill battle ahead.

The president's poll numbers, which plummeted last year, are beginning to inch
up. The vote on Judge Alito's confirmation is likely to give a big boost for
Republicans heading into the State of the Union address. Party leaders say Mr.
Bush's hand will grow only stronger after the speech, in which he is expected to
offer smaller-scale legislative initiatives on topics like health care and
immigration.

''His rhetoric was more impressive than I've seen it in a while,'' Senator Trent
Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said after Senate Republicans went to the White
House on Friday to discuss their agenda with Mr. Bush. ''He still has a great
reservoir of support among Republicans.''

Mr. Bush's prospects are complicated by the presidential aspirations of several
senators from his party, including the majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee,
whose plans to retire from Congress effectively make him a lame duck.

Congressional Republicans are also concerned about their own low poll numbers. A
New York Times/CBS News poll published on Friday found that 61 percent of
Americans had an unfavorable view of Congress, the highest in a decade.

With Washington consumed by the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal, Republicans know
they need quick legislative gains to turn around those numbers. In addition to
tax cuts, immigration, health care and energy prices, a new item is on the
agenda, lobbying reform.

''I think we kind of have to find our way again,'' Senator John Thune,
Republican of South Dakota, said. ''I always felt we were the party of reform.
When you become the party of the status quo and you lose that vision of really
wanting to be the reformers and the catalysts for change, that's when you have
to start asking some really hard questions.''

Before Congress can reform anything, lawmakers have to dive into a plate piled
high with leftovers, including the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot
Act, which expires on Friday unless it is extended again, and a $40 billion
budget-cutting plan passed by the Senate, but with changes that will require
another vote in the House.

That vote is scheduled for Wednesday, and Republicans concede that it will be
close. Last week, one Republican in a Democratic-leaning district,
Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, said in an interview that he
was ''revisiting the vote'' and told leaders that he was ''a lean yes, but not a
strong yes.''

Another, Representative Rob Simmons, also of Connecticut, said he would switch
to oppose the plan. Mr. Simmons, who voted for the cuts when they came up in the
House late last year, said in a statement that he had an earful about them from
constituents, including representatives of AARP, the retirees' lobby. ''In a
democracy,'' Mr. Simmons said, ''the government must serve the people, not reign
over them.''

In other business from last year, the House and Senate also have to reconcile
huge differences over how much money to commit to extending tax cuts, including
a plan to prevent millions of additional families from becoming subject to the
unpopular alternative minimum tax. The president has been pressing Congress to
make his tax cuts permanent, but the chances of that are slim.

Congress traditionally does little in the way of landmark legislation in an
election year, because partisan politics get in the way. Even so, Mr. Lott said
he was optimistic that ''this could wind up a very positive year, and one quite
different from what people anticipated.''

But he cautioned that the Republican agenda had to be ''simple, achievable and
explainable.''

Democrats, too, are sounding hopeful, if only because they hope that Mr. Bush's
poll numbers, which are rising but still comparatively low, will help them score
gains.

''An off-year election is a referendum on the president, and the president at
this point is vulnerable,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2
Democrat in the Senate, said. ''My experience is that members of the president's
party who don't believe he is a going to be a good ally for re-election will
start looking across the aisle. So I am hopeful that we will have more
independence in the Republican ranks.''

One indicator of Republican independence will be how the party handles the new
Medicare prescription drug program, which is creating considerable confusion
among older voters. Republicans see Medicare as a potential trouble spot in
November, and Representative Jack Kingston, the Georgia Republican who is vice
chairman of the House Republican Conference, said he was urging his colleagues
to confront the issue head on at home. ''Our members have to get out there and
engage in this Medicare confusion,'' Mr. Kingston said. ''Medicare is a big
problem.''

So big, in fact, that Mr. Dreier, the representative from California, suggested
in an interview that he would be willing to entertain a proposal, put forth by
Democrats, to change the law to allow the government to negotiate with
pharmaceutical companies to lower drug prices. The White House has steadfastly
opposed any changes in the law, and Mr. Dreier did not say explicitly that he
would support them. But, he added, ''At this juncture, I think that anything we
can do to make it better and more effective and help seniors have more access to
prescription drugs, I'm willing to look at.''

In the Senate and House, this session will open with wild cards. In the Senate,
which is expected to vote to confirm Judge Alito to the Supreme Court on
Tuesday, the Judiciary Committee will turn its attention to President Bush's
admission he authorized the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on the
conversations of Americans. Hearings are expected to begin next week.

In the House, the immediate focus is on the Republican leadership, where
Representatives Roy Blunt of Missouri, John A. Boehner of Ohio and John Shadegg
of Arizona are vying to succeed Representative Tom DeLay, who stepped aside
after being indicted in his home state, Texas, on charges in a case tied to
campaign funds. The leadership race is closely linked to lobbying reform. With
Democrats hammering the theme of a ''culture of corruption,'' Republicans are
eager to show they are serious about changing the way Washington does business.

The Senate has begun hearings on lobbying law changes, and both chambers hope to
pass bills by the spring. House Republicans intend to make changes even sooner,
by amending their rules to bar former colleagues who are registered lobbyists
from the House floor and gymnasium, a symbolic move intended to quell persistent
complaints about the so-called revolving door between Capitol Hill and K Street,
the lobbyists' center. The idea, Mr. Kingston said, is to dispatch quickly with
the lobbying changes, to change the topic to more winning issues.

''If the main re-election topic is Jack Abramoff, it's going to be hard because
you're an incumbent,'' he said. ''If the main topic is the economy, the war on
terrorism and fuel independence, then you should be O.K.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senate Republican leaders before a news conference on Friday on
Capitol Hill. From left, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, Kay Bailey Hutchison of
Texas, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and Bill Frist of Tennessee. (Photo by
Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 12, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wanted: Day Laborers

BYLINE: By Carola Otero Bracco.

Carola Otero Bracco is the executive director of Neighbors Link.

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: Mount Kisco


IMMIGRATION is the face of this country. In Westchester County and on Long
Island, it influences everything from traffic patterns and the kind of ethnic
foods we eat to the character of the historic enclaves and towns we live in.

Unfortunately, the benefits that immigrants bring to this country are being
forgotten on Long Island and in Westchester as battles erupt over the
free-flowing and informal labor force that has sprung up in response to our
insatiable appetite for cheap labor.

Towns like Brewster, Farmingville and Mamaroneck face rising tension between
residents and day laborers who line the sidewalks looking for work. And town
leaders must balance appeasing irate citizens with providing labor for the
businesses that form their tax base.

This tension and frustration, which run throughout our country, was certainly
one of the reasons that the House of Representatives in December passed a bill
that would criminalize, detain and deport the nearly 11 million undocumented
workers in this country. Such a simplistic and overreaching approach does
nothing, however, to deal with the reality of our economic needs and our broken
immigration system.

Instead, it helps to perpetuate the ugly myths surrounding these workers,
fueling animosity and misunderstanding in communities across America struggling
to integrate new immigrants.

Fortunately, an antidote to these myths is at hand: ''On the Corner: Day Labor
in the United States,'' the first comprehensive nationwide study of the day
labor phenomenon. Written by researchers at the University of California, Los
Angeles and elsewhere, it has important implications for towns and localities
across Westchester and Long Island. Among its findings are these:

Myth: Day laborers get a free ride because they don't pay taxes.

Reality: By some measures, day laborers pay more than their share of taxes. Day
workers rarely earn more than $15,000 a year, placing them among the working
poor. If they were documented, this income would make them eligible for earned
income credits and maybe even a tax refund.

They also pay property taxes through the high rents charged by the landlords in
this area. A bed in a shared apartment can cost $400 a month in Westchester
County. Laborers also pay the same sales taxes as everyone else.

Myth: Day labor is a choice that these workers favor.

Reality: The largest segment of surveyed laborers is employed in the day labor
market for less than one year. For many of these workers, day labor is a stop
gap until a permanent job opens up.

Myth: Day laborers are itinerants and have no ties to the towns where they seek
work.

Reality: According to the study, about one in three day laborers has lived in
the United States for six or more years. They attend church regularly and are
involved in sports clubs and community centers.

Myth: Hiring sites are magnets that draw unwanted immigrants to an area.

Reality: Day labor markets are driven by the simple economics of supply and
demand. They develop in areas where there is a need for pools of low-cost labor.

Without these laborers we would be hard pressed to find nannies in Chappaqua,
gardeners in Glen Cove, kitchen workers to prepare food in our favorite
restaurants or home health care workers to help keep our elderly parents at home
in Wantagh. And we means you and me, not just contractors: On the East Coast,
which has the second largest percentage of day laborers, individuals hire 42
percent of day laborers.

There are proven solutions to managing this labor demand. Chief among them are
day-labor worker centers, 63 of which now operate in 17 states. Communities
sponsoring formal worker centers find relief from the tensions between the day
workers and residents. These centers also help prevent labor and civil rights
abuses, provide improved working conditions and help workers recover unpaid
wages.

In 2000, when the proliferation of informal hiring sites raised tensions in
Mount Kisco, community leaders formed my organization, Neighbors Link, as a
formal day labor hiring site. Since then, we have expanded into a center that
offers workers and their families computer training, English classes and other
community-building activities -- a possible model for other towns seeking to
integrate workers.

Without a doubt, the day laborer phenomenon is one of the most vexing challenges
facing our region and our country, raising issues of economics, immigration and
human rights that will bedevil policymakers for years to come.

As long as our need for cheap labor continues, immigrants will come to our
borders. But the House bill that seeks to criminalize day laborers, now pending
in the Senate, does not fix our immigration system nor does it absolve us of our
responsibility to put a human face on this complex problem.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 28, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Rally For McCain Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY (NYT); Compiled by Joseph P. Fried

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 115 words


Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, received a hero's welcome yesterday
from 800 immigrants and other New Yorkers as he championed a federal immigration
bill on the home turf of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who could be his
opponent if they both run for the presidency in 2008. Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, is co-sponsor of the bill, which would create a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants now in the country if they pay fines,
successfully complete background checks, learn English, and work for a period of
years. Representatives Charles B. Rangel and Anthony D. Weiner, both Democrats,
joined Mr. McCain to support the bill.   PATRICK HEALY (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Church and the Illegal-Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 142 words



To the Editor:

''The Gospel vs. H.R. 4437'' (editorial, March 3) rightly identified charity as
the virtue that motivated Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles to speak out
against the House bill H.R. 4437, some parts of which would expand the
definition of ''alien smuggling'' dramatically.

No less important is the Catholic Church's longstanding commitment to social
justice, which has always included, in its definition of who is to be served,
the poorest and most vulnerable, whatever their legal status.

The church's injunction to its members has always involved not only loving, but
also serving.

In religion as in life, love generates action. As written, H.R. 4437 will
further divide the country, continue to demonize the poor and expand beyond
recognition the definition of what constitutes a federal crime.

John C. Hirsh
Washington, March 3, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Crackdown

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 198 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Immigration's Moment'' (editorial, March 15):

Twenty-five years ago Rural and Migrant Ministry was created as a response to
the grave injustices suffered by farmworkers in New York. Since the 1930's,
labor laws have treated farmworkers as second-class citizens by excluding them
from numerous human rights such as a day of rest and overtime pay.

The Ministry has stood with farmworkers in an effort to change these laws, with
limited success, including the right to drinking water in the fields in 1996,
and the right to toilets in the fields in 1998.

Our Congress now seems determined to repeat New York's injustices. This will
create a society where many of our farmworkers will not only be denied
opportunity and hope, but also be susceptible to grave abuse.

We only have to look to the federal court in Buffalo, where last year four
people were convicted for charges related to the enslavement of farmworkers.

It is ironic that the United States, a country that takes great pride in its
multicultural heritage, now seeks to deny the very essence of its own soul.

(Rev.) Richard C. Witt
Executive Director
Rural and Migrant Ministry
Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
March 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 89 words



To the Editor:

Whatever subtle word games The Times and the Senate choose to play, if the
Senate's disastrous immigration bill becomes law, impoverished villages across
the world will buzz with one word: amnesty!

Hundreds of millions of people will relearn the lesson of the 1986 amnesty,
which is that if you come to America illegally and keep out of sight, sooner or
later they will make you legal.

In 1986, there were three million. This time, there are about 12 million. How
many next time?

John Brock
Staten Island, March 29, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 114 words



To the Editor:

It is worth noting that Americans seldom look back with pride on the moments in
history when we have restricted the flow of immigrants to this country or
intruded upon the rights of any individual, full citizen or not.

Our most notable and admirable historical moments have come when we expand our
tent, include others and accept the contributions of a wider range of people,
including those new to our country.

America is at its best when it finds ways to tap fully into its human resources.
Remembering this in uncertain times can be difficult, but it is necessary if we
are to avoid mistakes we have made in the past.

Putnam Goodwin-Boyd
Florence, Mass., March 28, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Students Arrested at Immigration Protest in San Diego

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Student demonstrations against proposed legislation to crack
down on illegal immigrants declined yesterday in San Diego as only a few hundred
students skipped classes. Thirty-eight were arrested, mostly for loitering, said
Steven Baratte, a district spokesman. Most were cited and released to their
parents. (Photo by Fred Greaves/Reuters)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants And Their Flags

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 172 words



To the Editor:

David Brooks (''Immigrants to Be Proud Of,'' column, March 30) calls on social
conservatives to support Senator Sam Brownback's endorsement of the Judiciary
Committee's bill on immigration. Count me in.

As both Mr. Brooks and Linda Chavez (''American Dreams, Foreign Flags,'' Op-Ed,
March 30) demonstrate, Latinos are a social asset, not a liability.

But just as some liberals have a hard time agreeing publicly with anything that
conservatives advocate, there are some conservatives who reflexively oppose
anything that liberals want.

Some of the man-the-borders conservatives are not only hopelessly unrealistic in
their proposals, but they also go ballistic when a social conservative rejects
their position.

I know: after being scheduled to appear on a conservative radio talk show to
discuss this issue, I was promptly rejected once it was discovered in a
pre-interview that I didn't share the host's xenophobia.

William A. Donohue
President, Catholic League
for Religious and Civil Rights
New York, March 30, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Live, From Burbank, Calif., Hispanic Indignation

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 922 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 31


The jokes kept coming: skits loaded with bleeped-out vulgarisms about wasting
food at buffets and people who snore too loudly, a prank call to an event
organizer trying to finagle an invitation, hijinks enhanced by sound effects
befitting a radio-show whose host is nicknamed El Mandril, or the Baboon.

But then El Mandril -- from a studio at KBUE-FM in suburban Burbank adorned with
posters of him in the flowery dresses and purple-and-orange wigs of his radio
alter egos -- interrupted his morning drive-time zoo on Friday for a message
from his conscience.

With the flip of a switch, literally and figuratively, he changed the tenor of
his show, one of the most popular Spanish-language radio programs in Los
Angeles.

The laughter subsided and the ranchera music faded as El Mandril opened the
telephone line and took a call from a demonstration organizer in San Diego
calling to say that more than 1,000 local students had skipped school to protest
immigration legislation before Congress, part of a wave of such demonstrations
in Southern California this past week.

''I understand you also are going to Tijuana to drum up interest there,'' said
El Mandril, whose real name is Ricardo Sanchez, one of a handful of radio-show
hosts here credited with steering hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their
supporters into the streets of downtown Los Angeles last weekend.

Now, the question for Mr. Sanchez and his allies is what comes next. Mr. Sanchez
pondered that and decided to continue to fan the flames, this week inviting to
his program activists pushing for more demonstrations and a nationwide boycott
on May 1 that would call on all Latino immigrants, legal or not, to skip work
and avoid buying anything.

His guests on Friday morning included representatives from Hermandad Mexicana
Nacional, an advocacy group hoping to turn out thousands of people on Saturday
in Costa Mesa to protest plans by the police to help enforce immigration laws, a
move organizers see as an affront to Latino immigrants there.

But Mr. Sanchez is trying to balance his inner demands with the expectations of
his more than one million listeners who want a fun show, and that of outside
advocates, who want more attention for one of the largest mobilizations of
Latinos in years.

''I am not an activist,'' said Mr. Sanchez, 40, a legal resident from Veracruz,
Mexico, who speaks no English but worked his way up to his own show here three
years ago after working in radio in Tijuana, Mexico. ''What I do is make jokes
and make people laugh. This is the first time I have really done anything like
this. But it is important for our community, and what the politicians are doing
is not recognizing the work immigrants do.''

Mr. Sanchez said he had not paid much attention to the immigration issue until
meeting with demonstration organizers, who have focused on legislation passed by
the House of Representatives last year that would, among other things, make it a
felony to be in the United States without proper papers and a federal crime to
aid illegal immigrants. A bill in the Senate would take a different tack,
putting in place ways for illegal immigrants to gain citizenship.

Mr. Sanchez said it had not taken much to pique his interest.

He said he had felt the sting of racism in crude remarks from strangers in and
around Los Angeles and in dirty looks from hotel staff members on trips to Las
Vegas.

That, coupled with a sense of a big moment at hand, motivated him to meet with
other radio-show hosts and disc jockeys, who agreed to urge their listeners to
turn out for a March 25 demonstration in downtown Los Angeles.

The police said 500,000 people turned out, though organizers put the figure at
more than a million.

The March 25 Coalition, the organization that coordinated the demonstration,
sought to keep the Spanish-language news media engaged, urging them to promote
the proposed May 1 boycott and other protests.

''That's when this thing really took off, when we got the Spanish radio and
television on board with us,'' said Jesse Diaz, a sociology researcher at the
University of California, Riverside, and one of the main organizers. ''El
Mandril and the others, they stepped up.''

On Friday, Mr. Sanchez gave more than an hour of air time to Isabel Rodriguez, a
civil-rights lawyer, who answered listeners' questions about truancy citations
given to some students who missed class to attend marches.

''A student cannot be suspended or ticketed?'' Mr. Sanchez asked.

Ms. Rodriguez responded, ''The First Amendment protects the right of
expression.''

Shortly after thanking Ms. Rodriguez for her remarks, Mr. Sanchez adopted the
effete manner of one of his radio personalities and engaged in racy banter with
his comrades-in-morning-lunacy, the three crew members who hoot and cheer when
it seems appropriate. Together, they call themselves ''Los Guapos de la
Manana,'' the Handsome Ones of the Morning.

''We call ourselves that because, look at us, none of us are,'' said Mr.
Sanchez, squat and portly in a pink tropical shirt and jeans.

Then, perhaps the flip switched again, and Mr. Sanchez pointed to a laptop
computer, and within seconds used it to display pictures of the big protest last
weekend, beaming at a shot of himself at the front of the march wearing a white
T-shirt with the slogan ''Work and hope are not crimes,'' his arms interlocked
with a state senator and rally organizer.

''Look at that,'' he said with a giggle. ''All the other D.J.'s were like, how
did you get up there?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ricardo Sanchez, known as El Mandril, has regularly spoken about
immigration on his morning radio program in suburban Los Angeles. (Photo by
Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 5, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Need Medicaid? Show Your Passport

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 738 words


Buried in the nearly 800-page federal budget bill is a nasty little provision,
ostensibly aimed at immigrants, that will make it difficult for many
poverty-stricken U.S. citizens to get the health care they are entitled to under
Medicaid.

Advocates believe that the provision, which will require Medicaid applicants to
document their U.S. citizenship (which means producing a passport or birth
certificate), may be especially harmful to poor blacks, most of whom do not have
passports and many of whom do not have birth certificates.

There are no exceptions to this onerous provision, not even for people with
serious physical or mental impairments, including Alzheimer's disease.

The budget bill is scheduled for a final vote in the House on Feb. 1. The
Medicaid provision seems to have originated with a pair of Republican
congressmen from Georgia -- Nathan Deal and Charlie Norwood. The idea,
Congressman Deal told me, is to create a barrier against illegal immigrants who
might slip into the Medicaid program by falsely claiming they are citizens.

You haven't heard much about this latest threat to the republic because there is
no evidence it is much of a problem. As the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities has reported, an extensive study by the inspector general's office of
the Department of Health and Human Services ''found no substantial evidence that
such false applications are actually occurring and [the inspector general's
office], accordingly, did not  recommend making the change that is included in
the [budget] agreement.''

The problem will come when poor people who are ill get sucked into a nightmare
of documentation when their focus should be on their illness. The center noted:
''Many individuals who require Medicaid coverage -- such as people affected by
emergencies like Hurricane Katrina, homeless people or those with mental illness
-- may be unable to get Medicaid promptly when they need it because they do not
have such documents in their possession.''

Many poor people live far from the cities or towns where they were born and do
not have ready access to their birth certificates. And, as the center said, a
large number of African-American women, especially in the South, were unable to
give birth in hospitals because of racial discrimination. Many of them never
received birth certificates for their babies.

A spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, who is a physician, said
the Senate went along with the House proposal because the ''members did not feel
it was an unreasonable provision.'' He said that applicants in serious need of
care would receive it, and that Medicaid officials could accept the
documentation of citizenship later.

I wondered what would happen to individuals who were bedridden, destitute,
disoriented, enfeebled. They might receive care in theory. But would they
really? Stepping on their care seems a heavy price to pay to address an issue
that very few people view as a serious problem.

I asked Abel Ortiz, who advises Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia on health care
issues, if he was aware of any studies that showed whether significant numbers
of illegal immigrants in his state were getting Medicaid benefits. He said no,
although he added, ''We have some cases that have happened.''

The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the new provision would save
more than $700 million over the next decade. But if illegal immigrants crashing
the Medicaid program is not a big problem, where will the savings come from? How
about from the reduction in enrollment of sick or otherwise troubled U.S.
citizens who are poor and less than savvy about the arbitrary workings of the
bureaucracy?

The budget bill is a good example of how the insiders and special interests get
what they want in Washington, while ordinary people, who are supposed to be
represented by the members of the House and Senate, get bludgeoned.

Some members of Congress wanted health care savings -- if there were going to be
any -- to be achieved by such measures as negotiating better rates with large
drug companies and managed-care facilities. But that's not the sort of thing
that flies in this day and age. So the savings will be drawn like blood from the
sick and the poor.

Someday the pendulum will swing back, and the government of the United States
will become more representative and more humane. Meanwhile, as Lily Tomlin said,
''We're all in this alone.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 10, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

More and More, Women Risk All to Enter U.S.

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ and JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


It took years for Normaeli Gallardo, a single mother from Acapulco, to drum up
the courage to join the growing stream of Mexican women illegally crossing the
border on the promise of a job, in her case working in a Kansas meatpacking
plant for $5.15 an hour.

First, she had to grapple with the idea of landing in an unfamiliar country, all
alone, with no grasp of English and no place to live.

Then she had to imagine crossing the Arizona desert, where immigrants face heat
exhaustion by day, frostbite by night and the cunning of the ''coyotes'' --
smugglers who charge as much as $1,500 to guide people into the United States
and who make a habit of robbing and sexually assaulting them.

And finally, Ms. Gallardo, 38, who earned $50 a week at an Acapulco hotel, had
to contemplate life without her two vivacious daughters, Isabel, 7, and
Fernanda, 5. That once unimaginable trade-off -- leaving her children behind so
they could one day leave poverty behind -- had suddenly become her only option.

She simply did not earn enough money, she said. If she paid the electric bill,
she fell behind on rent; if she paid the water bill, she could forget about new
clothes for the children.

''My heart broke, my heart broke,'' said Ms. Gallardo, who crumbled as she
recounted her decision to leave her girls with her sister and make the uncertain
journey across the border. ''But I had to give them a better life. I told them I
would go and work, and we could buy a small plot of land and build a little
house and have a dog.''

Undaunted by a backlash against illegal immigrants here, Ms. Gallardo is part of
what some experts say is a largely unnoticed phenomenon: the increasing number
of women, many without male companions, enduring danger and the risk of capture
to come to the United States to work and to settle.

As many as 11 million illegal immigrants are thought to be living and working in
the United States, though estimates vary.

No one knows how many people illegally cross the Mexico-United States border,
trekking through the desert, hiding in cars and trucks, or walking through
points of entry with false papers. But academics, immigration advocates and
Border Patrol agents all agree that the number of women making the trip is on
the rise.

Katharine Donato, an associate professor of sociology at Rice University in
Houston who studies Mexican migration to the United States, estimates that as
many as 35 percent to 45 percent of those crossing the border illegally today
are women. Twenty years ago, fewer than 20 percent of the people crossing
illegally were women, she said.

The increase, which has occurred gradually, comes at a time when anger over
illegal immigration is on the upswing, especially in states near the border.
Some of that anger is directed at women who have babies in American hospitals
and send their children to public schools.

The House recently passed a hard-hitting bill that seeks to beef up border
enforcement and make it a federal crime to live in the United States illegally.

But to most of the women who cross the border, the debate over illegal
immigration and the ire of taxpayers has little bearing, if any, on the
difficult decision they make to undertake the journey. '' 'Vale la pena,' ''
said Kat Rodriguez, an organizer for the Human Rights Coalition in Tucson,
echoing a refrain among the women. '' 'It's worth it.' ''

Some women cross simply to keep their families together and join their husbands
after long separations, a situation that has grown more pronounced since the
Border Patrol agency began stepping up enforcement 10 years ago. With the border
more secure in California and Texas, many people are now being funneled into the
rugged territory of Arizona -- an effort that virtually requires the help of an
expensive coyote to cross successfully.

Yet a growing number of single women, like Ms. Gallardo, are coming not to join
husbands, but to find jobs, send money home and escape a bleak future in Mexico.
They come to find work in the booming underground economy, through a vast
network of friends and relatives already employed here as maids, cooks, kitchen
helpers, factory workers and baby sitters. In these jobs, they can earn double
or triple their Mexican salaries.

''It remains a story about family reunification, but the proportion of women
coming to the U.S. who are not married and working full time has gone up
substantially,'' Professor Donato said. ''So we see the single migrant woman
motivated by economic reasons coming to the United States that we saw very
little of 30 years ago.''

Still, the promise of a sweeter future often goes unfulfilled.

Ms. Gallardo never made it to Kansas. She never made it beyond the desert. After
walking eight hours at night and committing $500 to a coyote, she stumbled down
a rocky hill near Tucson and broke her ankle. The coyote left her sitting on a
nearby highway in the desert, where the Border Patrol eventually found her, took
her to a local emergency room and deported her to Nogales, Mexico, the next day.

A Mexican immigrant group, Grupo Beta, took her to a Mexican hospital where she
was told she needed surgery on her ankle at a cost of 3,000 pesos, or seven
weeks' salary. She also owes the friends who gave the coyote $500.

A month and a half earlier, Margarita Ximil Lopez, 20, had her hopes dashed,
too. She sat in a dismal holding cell at the United States Border Patrol station
in Nogales in October and tried to hide her tears from her son, Edel, who is
about to turn 6.

It was for his sake, she said, that she illegally crossed the border, only to be
abandoned by the coyote and picked up at a motel by American immigration
officers. Ms. Ximil, from Puebla, a large city southeast of Mexico City, had
hoped to join her sister, who had lined up a job for her as a waitress in Los
Angeles.

Here in Arizona, a tide of anti-immigrant sentiment has swelled along with the
number of border crossers, some of it directed particularly at women. Many
taxpayers say they resent that their tax dollars are being spent to educate
these women's children and pay for their delivery costs at local hospitals.

Reacting to the surge in illegal border crossings, voters in Arizona passed
Proposition 200 in November 2004, which, among other things, requires people
applying for some public benefits to show proof of citizenship.

The economic reality of illegal immigration is complex. Whether these workers
cost taxpayers more than they contribute has been debated for years, factoring
in the taxes collected, the unclaimed Social Security funds and the undesirable
jobs filled at low wages.

Pregnant women who are already in the United States illegally invariably use
hospitals to give birth, though statistics are unreliable because emergency room
patients are not asked their legal status. Children born in America are
automatically granted citizenship, and some critics accuse the mothers of
exploiting that guarantee.

But advocates for illegal immigrants maintain that the women's reasons for
coming here reach far beyond citizenship for their children; few women come to
the United States expressly to have babies, collect benefits and visit the
emergency room, the advocates say. Jim Hawkins, a Tucson sector Border Patrol
agent, said such instances were rare but not unheard of.

''I had a woman sit on the south side of the fence until she went into labor,
then jumped the fence,'' Mr. Hawkins said. ''She was coached well: she
immediately asked for an ambulance.''

After she gave birth, the woman was ordered to return to Mexico. Rather than
have her baby put up for adoption, Mr. Hawkins said, she took the baby back to
Mexico with her.

The nation's roiling immigration debate weighs little on the minds of the women
who cross here. Nor do the dangers of the crossing itself, which they know
routinely include sexual harassment or assault. As the borders have become
tighter, the coyotes have become more violent and desperate, law enforcement
officials and immigration advocates say.

''These poor aliens are nothing but product to these animals,'' said Mr.
Hawkins, adding that many women are raped, robbed and abandoned at the first
sign of trouble and are given amphetamines to keep them moving faster at night.

Since most women do not come forward to report the crimes -- because they do not
speak the language and are illegal, ashamed and scared of deportation -- few
hard numbers exist. But there is ample anecdotal information to bolster the
claim.

Maria Jimenez, 29, who is from Oaxaca and came here to work and join her
husband, has experienced most of what can go wrong. The first time she crossed
into Arizona three years ago, she was told by a coyote to expect a three-hour
evening walk across the desert. She packed no water. The journey took two nights
and three days, and Ms. Jimenez grew desperately dizzy and disoriented.

Then the coyote, an American, tried to sexually assault her and her
sister-in-law, she said. ''I told him no,'' Ms. Jimenez said. ''I started to
cry.'' He left her alone, but robbed her of the $300 in her pocket. Then just as
they neared a highway, the Border Patrol arrested the group.

She tried again a month later carrying drinks with electrolytes but no money in
her pocket. She made it, joining her husband in Tucson, where she got a job at a
restaurant and had a baby, Stephanie. A family emergency in Oaxaca forced her to
return home last year. But in November, she came back into the country, this
time with a group of eight people -- four of them women she met in Nogales.

During the trip, Ms. Jimenez slipped and fell, spraining her ankle. She wrapped
it in discarded clothes strewn across the desert by other immigrants, and she
hobbled on.

After a night of walking, they reached the railroad tracks and hopped a freight
train to Tucson. Her husband paid the coyote $1,000.

Ms. Jimenez, her husband and baby now share a house with another family. She
found work quickly in a restaurant kitchen for $5.25 an hour, no breaks, no sick
days.

''We are all scared when we cross,'' she said. ''But the thought that we can
help people back home makes it worth it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women caught trying to enter the United States illegally are
held at an immigration detention center, then are released at the Mexican
border.
John Fogle, a Border Patrol agent, fingerprinting Margarita Ximil Lopez, 20. She
and her son, Edel, 6, were being detained in Nogales, Ariz. (Photographs by J.
Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A23)
 Maribel Garduno Padilla, 25, in an immigrant detention center in Nogales,
Ariz., with other women and children caught by border guards. (Photo by J.
Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Provision of Antiterror Law Delays Entry of Refugees

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7


About 9,500 Burmese refugees scheduled to be resettled in the United States from
Thailand this year are in limbo because their indirect support for armed rebels
opposed to their repressive government has put them in technical violation of
American antiterrorism law, government officials say.

The Burmese are the largest of several groups, including refugees from Cuba,
Vietnam, Liberia and Somalia, whose admission to the United States has been
jeopardized by a provision in the USA Patriot Act that denies entry to anyone
who has provided material support to a terrorist or armed rebel group. The
provision applies even if that support was coerced or the aims of the group in
question match those of American foreign policy.

The law broadens the definition of terrorist groups to include organizations
that do not appear on the State Department's list of designated terrorist
groups, effectively barring refugees loosely linked to armed groups that have
resisted authoritarian governments like those in Cuba and Myanmar, formerly
Burma.

Some of the refugees paid taxes to rebel groups that controlled their
communities. Others offered food or small sums to relatives or acquaintances in
groups with ties to rebels or were forced to provide such support, refugee
resettlement officials said.

Officials in the Homeland Security and State Departments have been working for
several months to define guidelines for a waiver to the statute that would allow
the resettlement of the refugees, who are fleeing religious, ethnic and
political persecution, and refugee officials said they hope for a resolution
soon.

But with thousands of families stranded in refugee camps overseas, officials
from the United Nations and Republicans and Democrats in Congress have begun
warning in recent weeks that the law is leaving refugees increasingly at risk.

The law has already delayed the resettlement of 146 Cubans who offered support
to armed opponents of Fidel Castro in the 1960's; 200 Burmese refugees housed in
Malaysia; 30 Hmong refugees in Thailand; 11 Vietnamese Montagnard refugees in
Cambodia; and a small number of Liberians and Somalis, United Nations statistics
show.

The United Nations is still awaiting a formal decision on the 9,500 Burmese
refugees in Thailand.

United Nations officials and members of Congress said the refugees posed no
known security risks to the United States. By tagging them as having links to
terrorists, the United Nations says, the Bush administration will make it
difficult to find other countries willing to accept them. It may also lead
countries providing the refugees with temporary shelter to reconsider their
welcome.

The delay in issuing a waiver to the statute has led the United Nations to
suspend the American resettlement of hundreds of Colombian refugees, many of
whom were forced to make payments to rebel forces, and of 1,300 Burmese refugees
housed in Malaysia, who made donations to ethnic groups linked to armed
opponents of the Burmese government.

It has also prevented some 500 asylum seekers in the United States from being
granted permanent refuge here. Many of those cases are being appealed.

''Until this issue is resolved, many deserving refugees and applicants for
asylum fleeing religious, ethnic or other forms of persecution will be unfairly
denied or postponed from achieving safe haven,'' Representatives Christopher H.
Smith, Republican of New Jersey, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida,
said last week in a letter to the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff.

The antiterrorism law, which was passed in 2001 and which Congress reauthorized
on Tuesday, has been increasingly applied to refugees in the past two years. So
has the Real ID Act, which further broadened the definition of terrorist groups
when it was enacted last year.

''That procedure should ensure that terrorists do not abuse refugee status or
the asylum laws of the United States,'' Mr. Smith and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen wrote.
''However, the procedure should also properly weigh situations in which
individuals are acting under duress or are legitimately resisting illegitimate
and tyrannical regimes.''

Senators Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts, both Democrats, wrote a similar letter last week.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, said his
agency was working with the Departments of State and Justice to resolve the
problem.

''Part of the consternation over this issue is that this process is taking some
time,'' Mr. Strassberger said. ''The process is made difficult because of the
need to balance national security with our deep commitment to assisting refugees
and providing a safe refuge.''

Those affected by the law include a Colombian woman forced by rebels to hand
over livestock. The rebels killed her husband and raped her before she escaped
the country. Because her forced support for the rebels would bar her from
admission to the United States, the United Nations settled her in another
country.

Researchers from the Human Rights Program at Harvard Law School, who traveled to
Thailand and Malaysia, interviewed scores of additional refugees. Two of them --
one who gave a hat to a cousin who belonged to an opposition group and another
who was taxed a basket of rice annually by the group -- are among the Burmese
who still hope to find refuge in the United States.

Lawyers at the Homeland Security Department have also argued that the laws now
bar the United States from admitting Afghan refugees who supported the Northern
Alliance in its battle against the Taliban or South Africans who supported the
African National Congress when it was deemed a terrorist group.

The lawyers made that case in January as they tried to persuade a panel of
judges to deny asylum to a Burmese woman who had donated money to an opposition
group. The woman, a Christian who has been detained in Texas since she entered
this country in 2004, said she had been persecuted in Myanmar for her religious
beliefs and her ethnicity.

The woman, who is being represented by Edward Neufville and who will not allow
her name to be used because her case is pending, remains in detention, awaiting
the judges' decision.

''I am still hoping,'' she said in a telephone interview on Friday.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward Neufville has a Burmese client being detained in Texas.
(Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: A Push To Legalize Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 88 words


The leaders of a coalition of unions, civil rights groups and immigration
advocacy organizations said that they planned to organize rallies in 10 cities
on April 10 to put pressure on Congress to pass legislation that would legalize
the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants. The groups, which include the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights and the National
Council of La Raza, said the rallies would take place in New York, Washington,
Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles and other cities.    RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

North of the Border

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman.

Bob Herbert is on vacation.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 743 words


''Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,''
wrote Emma Lazarus, in a poem that still puts a lump in my throat. I'm proud of
America's immigrant history, and grateful that the door was open when my
grandparents fled Russia.

In other words, I'm instinctively, emotionally pro-immigration. But a review of
serious, nonpartisan research reveals some uncomfortable facts about the
economics of modern immigration, and immigration from Mexico in particular. If
people like me are going to respond effectively to anti-immigrant demagogues, we
have to acknowledge those facts.

First, the net benefits to the U.S. economy from immigration, aside from the
large gains to the immigrants themselves, are small. Realistic estimates suggest
that immigration since 1980 has raised the total income of native-born Americans
by no more than a fraction of 1 percent.

Second, while immigration may have raised overall income slightly, many of the
worst-off native-born Americans are hurt by immigration -- especially
immigration from Mexico. Because Mexican immigrants have much less education
than the average U.S. worker, they increase the supply of less-skilled labor,
driving down the wages of the worst-paid Americans. The most authoritative
recent study of this effect, by George Borjas and Lawrence Katz of Harvard,
estimates that U.S. high school dropouts would earn as much as 8 percent more if
it weren't for Mexican immigration.

That's why it's intellectually dishonest to say, as President Bush does, that
immigrants do ''jobs that Americans will not do.'' The willingness of Americans
to do a job depends on how much that job pays -- and the reason some jobs pay
too little to attract native-born Americans is competition from poorly paid
immigrants.

Finally, modern America is a welfare state, even if our social safety net has
more holes in it than it should -- and low-skill immigrants threaten to unravel
that safety net.

Basic decency requires that we provide immigrants, once they're here, with
essential health care, education for their children, and more. As the Swiss
writer Max Frisch wrote about his own country's experience with immigration,
''We wanted a labor force, but human beings came.'' Unfortunately, low-skill
immigrants don't pay enough taxes to cover the cost of the benefits they
receive.

Worse yet, immigration penalizes governments that act humanely. Immigrants are a
much more serious fiscal problem in California than in Texas, which treats the
poor and unlucky harshly, regardless of where they were born.

We shouldn't exaggerate these problems. Mexican immigration, says the
Borjas-Katz study, has played only a ''modest role'' in growing U.S. inequality.
And the political threat that low-skill immigration poses to the welfare state
is more serious than the fiscal threat: the disastrous Medicare drug bill alone
does far more to undermine the finances of our social insurance system than the
whole burden of dealing with illegal immigrants.

But modest problems are still real problems, and immigration is becoming a major
political issue. What are we going to do about it?

Realistically, we'll need to reduce the inflow of low-skill immigrants. Mainly
that means better controls on illegal immigration. But the harsh
anti-immigration legislation passed by the House, which has led to huge protests
-- legislation that would, among other things, make it a criminal act to provide
an illegal immigrant with medical care -- is simply immoral.

Meanwhile, Mr. Bush's plan for a ''guest worker'' program is clearly designed by
and for corporate interests, who'd love to have a low-wage work force that
couldn't vote. Not only is it deeply un-American; it does nothing to reduce the
adverse effect of immigration on wages. And because guest workers would face the
prospect of deportation after a few years, they would have no incentive to
become integrated into our society.

What about a guest-worker program that includes a clearer route to citizenship?
I'd still be careful. Whatever the bill's intentions, it could all too easily
end up having the same effect as the Bush plan in practice -- that is, it could
create a permanent underclass of disenfranchised workers.

We need to do something about immigration, and soon. But I'd rather see Congress
fail to agree on anything this year than have it rush into ill-considered
legislation that betrays our moral and democratic principles.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 2, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

So the Jains, They Have a Problem With BEEF in the School Lunches. Who They
Gonna Call?

BYLINE: By Suketu Mehta.

Suketu Mehta is the author of ''Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found,'' which was
recently released in paperback by Vintage.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 2920 words


It was the night of this year's New York primary, and when a billionaire like
Mayor Michael Bloomberg holds a party to celebrate his candidacy, it's no small
affair. The spacious ballroom of the Marriott in downtown Brooklyn was
overflowing with free beer and pigs-in-blankets, and a band revved up the
throngs of supporters. ''We love Mike! We love Mike!'' they chanted. Among the
supporters was Alex Martins, a goateed Indian lawyer in a business suit and a
Hawaiian shirt. He was flanked by three fellow Indians in shirt-sleeves who
looked a little lost. Martins waved a big blue Bloomberg poster enthusiastically
and joined in the chant; his entourage stood around silently.

Martins's companions were wearing ''Mike '05'' buttons, but it was safe to
assume that they had little clue what the mayor's political platform was. They
were at the Marriott because, being relatively new immigrants, they wanted
things ''fixed'' -- visas, jobs, business permits -- and Martins is a master at
this. If Martins was attending the event, they would join him. They told me they
don't have much trust in politicians because they had known the ones back home
in India. (''Politicians are like creatures,'' one of them, a computer
programmer from Mumbai, said. ''They're like sharks.'') But they were hoping
that through their association with Martins, who is on the board of the New Era
Democrats, a political club that has endorsed Bloomberg, they might see some
results. Martins is a slim, dark man of 40 who looks understandingly at you over
the top of his glasses as he speaks. ''Within this week I will solve your
problem'' is one of his favorite phrases.

When I first asked for his card, Martins gave me four. One identified him as an
immigration and personal-injury lawyer affiliated with the firm Frenkel,
Hershkowitz & Shafran. A second card testified to his role as C.E.O. of Ara
Global Trading, ''Importer and Distributor of Exclusive Wines.'' Two others
actually belonged to his wife, Maureen Martins, D.D.S., of Bright Smile Dental
Care in Flushing and Valley Stream, N.Y. (''We love to see you smile.'') He
frequently conducts business out of her offices.

Martins is not a high-profile mover and shaker in New York City politics. But he
does play a role in helping to meet the needs of many of the city's residents --
particularly South Asian immigrants. He is a fixer, an expediter: a link between
the vast, anonymous, forbidding face of the system and the immigrant cabby or
student or maid, perhaps without papers, fresh off a long-haul flight at J.F.K.

In the absence of powerful elected officials -- there's not a single South Asian
holding a major elected office in New York -- the Indian community has to rely
on other conduits to power. Martins fills that role by running a favor bank,
brokering the barter of services -- for instance, a largely Indian taxi company
agrees to distribute campaign literature in return for his intervention with
officials on the Taxi and Limousine Commission. Martins's fees are not made
explicit, but the people who come to him are more or less aware of what they
need to do to pay him back, because they come from countries where the trading
of influence is necessary to survival.

Historically, every immigrant group that has come to New York has relied on
people like Martins: a man of connections, a man you call when your son is
caught shoplifting or your cousin needs a visa or your nephew needs a city job.
He is not a politician -- not yet, at least -- but he is a political creature.
He is the representative who helps new immigrants reach their elected
representatives.

For the politicians whom Martins deals with, the benefits of helping a new
immigrant are often not immediately apparent, because most of the immigrants are
not citizens and can't vote. But some of these immigrants have money, and many
of them will, eventually, become citizens and remember who came to their
assistance when they were new to the country. The politicians are also keenly
aware that New York's demographics are changing. This year, for the first time
in history, non-Hispanic whites make up a minority of the city's voters. Which
means that every New York politician seeking citywide office now has to form a
coalition: no one can win on the basis of appealing to a single voting bloc,
whether it's whites, blacks or Hispanics. Politicians will need the support of
the Jains, the Catholics from Goa, the Sikhs -- all the people who turn to
Martins to get things fixed.

''How's the sick and the dying?'' Marty Golden, a New York state senator, asked
Dr. Narmesh Shah on a recent summer day, walking into a pizza parlor next to
Golden's Brooklyn office in the 22nd District in Bay Ridge. Martins, who was
sitting with Shah, had arranged this meeting between the senator and the doctor,
a recent Indian immigrant seeking a fellowship in cardiology at a city hospital.
Golden momentarily confused Shah with another doctor that Martins had taken to
him for a favor. The senator freely confessed he couldn't keep track of all
Martins's clients: ''You bring me so many people, I don't know!''

Shah was not paying Martins anything for the contact with Golden, though Shah
did arrange for a free checkup for a friend of Martins's -- a priest from Goa
who lacked health insurance. And Martins was offering nothing to Golden, though
in the past Martins has organized registration drives to get Indian and other
minority voters, who typically vote Democratic, to cast their ballot for Golden,
who is a Republican. After the meeting, Golden wrote a recommendation for Shah
to New York Methodist Hospital. Eventually, Shah may be called upon to return
the favor that Martins did for him. The payouts in Martins's favor bank are
immediate; the fees and deposits can be claimed long into the future.

Golden, it turned out, had recently returned from a trip to Israel, and Martins
knew precisely when the senator left and when he came back. ''Alex knows how to
get a hold of me,'' Golden said. When a new immigrant faces problems, the
senator explained, Martins is the man to call: ''He knows the numbers to dial.
There's nothing wrong with it -- it has been part of the fabric of this country
for 200 years.'' Immigrants learn about Martins through word of mouth, from
family to family. As Golden put it, ''They learn who are the can-do people.''

Martins grew up in Mumbai (formerly Bombay), the son of an officer in the
merchant marine. He started running a catering business at age 14. Then he
started manufacturing bakery equipment (''kneaders, grinders and hollow waffle
machines''). Later he ran a nightclub, and when his father, a devout Catholic,
found out about the club, he threw Alex out of his house. ''And that's why I
left the country,'' Martins says. He had become friendly with the United States
consul general in Mumbai, Harry Cahill, who introduced him around at the United
States Chamber of Commerce and arranged for his American visa.

Martins immigrated to New York at 18 and enrolled for a bachelor's degree in
finance and marketing at Baruch College. His nightclub experience in India was
useful when he got a job as the headwaiter at Michael's Pub in Manhattan. He
realized that the city was teeming with business opportunities for immigrants
like himself, and he soon opened a Nathan's hot-dog franchise near City Hall.

But a couple of incidents made Martins realize that the place of immigrants in
the city was still precarious. One day, as he recalled it to me, he was riding
on the E train and the pages of the newspaper that he was reading brushed
against the man seated next to him. The man launched into a diatribe against
immigrants. ''Go back to your own country!'' he barked. Martins said that he
felt intimidated but that he managed to speak up in his own defense; he said
that America was a land of immigrants, and that his fellow passenger didn't have
the right to tell Martins to get out. ''Since that time I've wanted to be an
immigration attorney,'' Martins said. He later got a law degree from N.Y.U.

Martins has a keen sense of the hurdles that Indian immigrants face, especially
in finding work in city government. When it comes to jobs in administrative
offices, Martins says that he has seen that ''always someone else is given a
chance. There is always discrimination in the high-level offices. It's how the
British and the Portuguese ruled us'' -- that is, by denying Indians
higher-level positions in government. Martins decided that he wouldn't be just a
run-of-the-mill lawyer; he would help immigrants by aggressively cultivating
politicians.

''In the Indian community,'' he says, ''there was always a problem: people
couldn't approach the politicians the right way. They're not confident.'' He
would explain to the Indians he spoke with, ''If they want our support, they
need to get our work done.'' He also worked to educate the politicians about
Indian culture: who is Ganesh, the elephant-headed Hindu god? What is the Sikh
religion? He often took politicians on visits to the Indian community's houses
of worship.

Martins quickly figured out that to deal with what former Mayor David Dinkins
once called New York's gorgeous mosaic, you have to wear a gorgeous tie. He
showed me a photo from a 2004 fund-raiser for the Congress of Italian-Americans
Organization (CIAO), in which he appeared with one arm around Bloomberg and his
other around a diminutive Italian grandmother named Mary Crisalli Sansone, the
founder of the organization. Martins was sporting a particularly vivid tricolor
tie. ''It's not the Italian flag, in fact,'' he confessed, ''but it's close.''
He has ties for his visits to every ethnic community, with an approximation of
the colors of their national flags. When he went to meet Manmohan Singh, the
Indian prime minister, he wore a tie that sported the green, white and saffron
of the Indian flag.

Not long ago, New York's Jain community had a festival, and Martins arranged an
appearance by Louis Gelormino, an attorney who has served in the Giuliani and
Bloomberg administrations. The Jains are ideal New Yorkers: nonviolent and rich.
They are largely made up of diamond merchants and other entrepreneurs from
India, and they follow a religion that mandates extreme pacificism.

The Jains, though, had some highly specific demands, which they were not shy
about expressing to Martins. ''They want beef not to be served in the public
schools that their children go to,'' he explained to me. The Jains are also
opposed to the eating of eggs, as well as root vegetables like onions, garlic
and potatoes, which cannot be uprooted without killing the entire plant. Martins
was sympathetic but firm: ''I said to the community leaders, 'This is not
possible.' I said, 'It is very difficult to have an eggless cake for you.' ''
Martins often serves the function of gently explaining the limits of political
power to the communities he works with -- for instance, that New York City is
not going to ban hamburgers in the schools any time in the foreseeable future.
Still, he managed to restore the Jains' faith in the political system by
arranging for city approval for parking outside their temple in Queens.

New York politicians, knowing Martins's links with the Indian community, often
reach out to him with opportunities for his constituency. The Democratic state
senator John Sabini was recently walking along the street in Jackson Heights
when he saw a Pakistani cabby driving a taxi that was clearly from New Orleans.
Sabini flagged down the driver and discovered that the cabby was an evacuee and
had his wife and 20-month-old baby with him in the car. Sabini found the cabby
hotel accommodations through the city's marketing agency and a job through the
owner of a taxi fleet. The taxi-fleet owner has since offered a job to any
driver from the Gulf Coast. Shams Tarek, a Bangladeshi immigrant and top aide to
Sabini, explains that Sabini's office will actively seek out Martins and ask him
''if he knows any Sikh cabbies, or anybody from the South who's impacted by the
hurricane.''

One of Martins's clients is a car service in Queens, whose drivers are mostly
from the Indian subcontinent. He intervenes on their behalf with the Taxi and
Limousine Commission, whose leadership Martins is well acquainted with. If you
hired one of their cars on the day before the New York primary, you were handed,
along with your receipt, a campaign flyer for Renee Lobo, one of the candidates
for City Council that Martins is backing. It was a narrowly aimed form of
campaign advertising, since the car service operates in her district.

Despite his deft political touch, Martins has also had some frustrations with
the Indian community. Of the community's older, less aggressive leaders, he
says: ''They are losers. They come to me when they need work; after the work is
done, they forget about me. They are short-term-goal people.'' Still, Martins
says that he is hopeful that this situation is changing. He cites the example of
Representative Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, an Indian-American who had a realistic
chance of becoming governor in the last election. ''We have to get the young
people volunteering for political campaigns,'' Martins says. ''I would like to
see an Indian mayor of New York.''

Some in the city are resistant to Martins's charms. ''He's a great
self-promoter,'' said a political aide to a state senator who spoke on condition
of anonymity because his boss often works with Martins. ''We think he's more
talk than substance. He's a name-dropper. He loves to say he's got a direct line
to our office. It makes him look good that he can tell someone, 'I can call the
senator and it's done.' That's his shtick.''

And is it indeed done, I asked, when Martins calls the senator's office?

''We try to help as many people as we can just for that rainy day when we might
need help,'' the aide said. ''We're just trying to build allies.''

Is self-promotion a bad thing in politics? I asked.

''What kind of question is that?'' the aide protested. ''It's all about
contacts, and your name getting out there. It's all about going to the dinner or
the fund-raiser and someone seeing you across the room and recognizing your
face.''

Recently, in a booth at the Delhi Palace, a restaurant in Jackson Heights that
he has been patronizing for years, Martins gathered with three acquaintances to
find a job for one of them -- a woman on the Taxi and Limousine Commission who
was trying to find a new line of work as a photographer. One of the assembled
diners, Terry Lewis, an African-American constituent liaison for Senator
Sabini's office, began by noting that every month he gets the ABC Television
postings for office jobs, which he offered to make available to the woman.

The other man at the booth was Sam Gandhi, a cigarette wholesaler who is
considering going into the dialysis business with Martins. Lewis told Gandhi,
who is always on the lookout for a good business deal, about some economic
development areas possibly opening in Harlem and near the junkyards behind Shea
Stadium. Gandhi had another business idea: an all-in-one wedding hall for
Indians in Jackson Heights. Martins, though, steered him away from the idea of
Jackson Heights as a locale, citing the difficulties in arranging for city
approval for the parking.

Gandhi has experienced the benefits of being Martins's friend. He recently paid
$100 to attend a fund-raiser for the New Era Democrats, organized by Martins,
which was attended by Bloomberg and Raymond W. Kelly, the New York police
commissioner. ''I got my picture with Ray Kelly,'' Gandhi said. He put it up in
his Queens office. ''I think it works sometimes,'' he said. ''If someone comes
to rob me, it might help. If he knows Kelly, he might think, Let me get the hell
out of here!''

Martins took out two bottles of red wine from a bag. Both of the wines were
Indian, and one had a picture of an Indian classical dancer on the front. Lewis
sampled a wine and pronounced it ''palatable.''

I asked Martins if he had ever considered entering politics himself. ''If the
time comes, I will take the challenge,'' he said. He said he could see himself
running in a state or city contest, from neighborhoods like Richmond Hill, Ozone
Park or Flushing, which have lots of South Asians.

Gandhi observed that Martins doesn't charge fees from the people for whom he
arranges meetings and does favors. ''He wants to be in public office,'' Gandhi
said, ''and this is the way to start, by letting people know he's there for
them.''

So this was the structure of Martins's life in the city: a little business, a
little law, a little socializing, a little campaigning. ''I am a wine drinker,
and I love the concept of blending,'' Martins said. He brought out a bottle of
his latest import, an Australian chardonnay. ''In the day, I love to fight
cases, and in the night I have my passionate business.''

As the level in the wine bottle descended, the conversational range expanded,
and the group began discussing topics of national and then international
importance. ''I could find bin Laden,'' Martins declared at one point. This
would be done, he said, by ''squeezing the bin Laden family.'' He put a hand up
in the air and closed his palm. The opinion of the table was that the Bush
administration probably knows where bin Laden is but has a vested interest in
not capturing him. Martins, though, it was agreed, could find him. If anyone
could do it, he could. He could fix it.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Platon)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

If You Move Here, Speak English

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 168 words



To the Editor:

''English Only, Por Favor'' (Oct. 9) states, ''A letter instructing porters at a
Lower East Side co-op that only English could be spoken on the job has erupted
into a bitter squabble in a neighborhood where a babble of languages wafts
through apartment buildings.''

I'm Hispanic. I came to the United States as a legal immigrant, I learned
English, and I'm a naturalized American citizen.

To maintain a nation, we need to keep three important elements: language,
culture and borders. Without them, we no longer have a country.

The immigrants we get these days, whether they are legal or illegal, don't come
here for ''freedom,'' as so many pro-immigration advocates claim. Instead, these
immigrants come for the ''freebies'' that American taxpayers pay for. Otherwise,
they would learn English and assimilate in American society, as I did.

I have this to say to these Tower of Babel immigrants: ''If you don't want to
speak English, go back to your country.''

Haydee Pavia
Laguna Woods, Calif.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Driver of Bus Faces 23 Counts Of Homicide

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: TRAFFIC DEATHS;
Pg. 20

LENGTH: 262 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Oct. 17


The driver of a bus that caught fire and exploded last month while transporting
sick and elderly evacuees out of Hurricane Rita's path faces 23 counts of
negligent homicide, one count for each passenger who died.

Officials of the Dallas County Sheriff's Department announced on Monday that the
charges were being forwarded to the grand jury.

More people may eventually be charged, they said.

''There's such a long paper trail in this case, from the owners of the bus to
the company that leased it and the company that leased it from them and on and
on,'' said Sgt. Don Peritz, a sheriff's spokesman.

Initially, sheriff's officials said the driver, Juan Robles Gutierrez, 37, a
Mexican citizen who is in federal custody on immigration charges, tried to pull
passengers off the bus before it exploded on Sept. 23.

But on Monday, Sergeant Peritz said investigators could not verify that account.
The charges stemmed ''from the totality of his actions,'' Sergeant Peritz said.

The bus, carrying 44 passengers, including 37 elderly and infirm people, from
the Brighton Gardens home for the elderly in the Houston suburb of Bellaire, had
been on the road for 16 hours in traffic when the fire erupted. Within minutes,
witnesses said, the bus exploded, fueled by passengers' oxygen tanks.

Much of the investigation has focused on the condition of the brakes and the
overall safety of the bus, investigators have said.

The owners of the bus company, Global Limo Inc., which federal officials shut
down this month because of safety violations, could not be reached for comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: 10 Charged With Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: NYT; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 101 words


Ten people, including six sailors from the U.S.S. Eisenhower, have been charged
with conspiring to fake marriages to help people they believed were illegal
immigrants enter the United States, Michael J. Garcia, the United States
attorney in Manhattan, said yesterday. Prosecutors said the immigrants were
actually undercover F.B.I. operatives conducting a sting operation. The
prosecutors said that Kenneth Adam Howard, of Baltimore, recruited the sailors,
who were based in Norfolk, Va., and others to participate in sham marriages, and
that he provided identification documents for $3,000 to $4,000 each.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 118 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Fellow Republicans, Open Your Doors,'' by Linda Chavez (Op-Ed, Nov. 17):

Pro-business Republicans like Ms. Chavez and President Bush have been pushing
for a ''market-based'' immigration system for a long time. It is important to
understand what this would really mean.

An essential aspect of a truly free labor market is that employers are free to
hire the cheapest labor they can find.

If we give American employers the freedom they want -- the freedom to choose
between hard-working Americans, who demand high American wages, and hard-working
foreigners, who are grateful to do the same work for much less -- whom do you
think they will choose?

John Brock
Staten Island, Nov. 17, 2005

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Laborers From Haiti Are Paid With Abuse in the Dominican Republic

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1686 words

DATELINE: GUATAPANAL, Dominican Republic


The tobacco fields are being planted a little late this year because the Haitian
immigrants who work them were driven away by threats of a lynching.

The troubles in this farm town in the country's northwest started in late
September, with allegations that a Dominican worker had been killed by two black
men. Too angry to wait for a trial, local Dominicans armed themselves with
machetes and went out for vengeance.

''Where there are two Haitians, kill one; where there are three Haitians, kill
two,'' said leaders of the mobs that descended on the immigrants' camps, the
Haitians here recalled. ''But always let one go so that he can run back to his
country and tell them what happened.''

Several Haitian workers were beaten by the Dominican mobs, said Jacobo Martinez
Jimenez, an immigrant organizer. One Haitian, Mr. Martinez said, drowned when he
fell into a river as he tried to get away. At least half of the town's 2,000
Haitian workers fled, as they said they had been warned to do, back across the
border to Haiti, which shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican
Republic. Hundreds of others hid in the hills to the east, hoping that Dominican
tempers would cool so that they could return to their jobs.

The attacks on Haitians here provide the most recent example of what
international human rights groups describe as the Dominican Republic's
systematic abuse of Haitians and Dominicans of Haitian descent. In recent years,
those organizations report, tens of thousands of Haitians have been summarily
expelled from the country by individuals and the government, forcing them to
abandon loved ones, work and whatever money or possessions they might have.

''We do all the work, but we have no rights,'' said Victor Beltran, one of about
150 Haitian immigrants, most of them barefoot and dressed in rags, who had taken
refuge in a rickety old barn. ''We do all the work, but our children cannot go
to school. We do all the work, but our women cannot go to the hospital.

''We do all the work,'' he said, ''but we have to stay hidden in the shadows.''

Among those who have been deported, said Roxanna Altholz, a lecturer at the
University of California, Berkeley, are Spanish-speaking Dominicans who were
born to Haitian parents but have never visited Haiti, much less lived there.

At the root of the problem, Ms. Altholz said, is that Haitian immigrants and
their Dominican-born children live in a state of ''permanent illegality,''
unable to acquire documents that prove they have jobs or attend schools or even
that they were born in this country.

In October, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights issued an opinion that the
Dominican Republic was illegally denying birth certificates to babies born here
to Haitian parents, and ordered the government to end the practice.

Human Rights Watch has also published extensive investigations of the mass
expulsions, and the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child has
expressed concerns about Haitian children being denied access to education and
medical care.

''Snatched off the street, dragged from their homes, or picked up from their
workplaces, 'Haitian-looking' people are rarely given a fair opportunity to
challenge their expulsion during these wholesale sweeps,'' Human Rights Watch
reported in 2002. ''The arbitrary nature of such actions, which myriad
international human rights bodies have condemned, is glaringly obvious.''

Several Roman Catholic priests here have been threatened with legal action,
including expulsion from the country, after the authorities found that they had
illegally obtained birth certificates for dozens of Dominican-Haitian babies by
falsely declaring them to be their own. One of the priests has also been
receiving death threats, prompting the church to move him out of the country
temporarily for his safety

''By keeping Haitians in a limbo of illegality, the government can do whatever
they want with them,'' said the Rev. Regino Martinez Breton of the Jesuit-run
agency Solidaridad Fronteriza, in Dajabon, a city on the Dominican border. ''The
government can bring as many Haitians here as they want and then throw them away
when they don't want them anymore.''

Racism helps fuel the anti-immigrant sentiment, human rights groups say, since
Haitians tend to have darker skin than Dominicans and are therefore often
assumed to hold a lower social status.

The two countries have been volatile neighbors for most of the last two
centuries, beginning with Haiti's domination of the Dominican Republic after its
independence from Spain in the early 1800's. A century later, Rafael Trujillo,
then the Dominican dictator, ordered the executions of some 37,000 Haitians in
what many historians have called a ruthless campaign of ethnic cleansing.
Indeed, the river that separates Haiti from the Dominican Republic is called
Massacre River because of the slaughter.

Although anti-Haiti talk has since become a standard part of Dominican politics,
the police and the military have made fortunes trafficking Haitians into the
country to supply labor for agriculture and construction. Haitians here,
desperate to escape the poverty and upheaval in their country, often say they
have little choice but to accept Dominican exploitation.

Meanwhile, Dominican workers have been slowly pushed out of work by Haitian
immigrants who will work for less, and so they are leaving their homeland in
droves on rickety boats headed toward Puerto Rico, even though the Dominican
Republic is one of the fastest growing economies in the Caribbean.

Nationalist talk by the elite and frustration among unemployed Dominicans drive
most attacks on Haitians, human rights groups say. And while one Dominican
government after another has promised change, human rights investigators charge
that they have all failed to guarantee Haitian immigrants and their
Dominican-born descendants basic protections.

Guatapanal is not the only place where immigrants have experienced the Dominican
Republic's version of mob justice. In August, on the outskirts of Santo Domingo,
the capital, four Haitian men were gagged, doused with flammable liquids and set
on fire. Three of the men, from 19 to 22 years old, died of their injuries. Soon
after, Haiti temporarily recalled the leader of its diplomatic mission in the
Dominican Republic to protest what it described as a ''growing wave of racist
violence'' against its people.

After a Dominican woman was stabbed to death in May not far from here, Dominican
mobs went on a rampage, beating Haitian migrants and setting fire to their
houses. Before the next dawn, police officers and soldiers went door to door
pulling some 2,000 Haitian migrants from their beds and loading them onto buses
bound for the border.

At least 500 of those deported, Father Martinez said, were legal guest workers
and Dominican citizens.

''It was a disaster,'' said Andres Carlitos Benson, a Dominican-born university
student who lives in Libertad. ''We showed them our university identification
cards, and they tore them up in front of us and told us to shut up, or they were
going to beat us.

''They took parents away and left their children,'' he added. ''They took old
people out of their beds without any clothes.''

Stung by mounting international criticism, President Leonel Fernandez of the
Dominican Republic has publicly expressed concern that some of his government's
deportations of Haitians have violated international standards on human rights.

Still, his government rejected the ruling by the Inter-American Court. Other
Dominican officials have said that their government was struggling with scant
resources to secure its porous border and stop the surging flow of Haitians,
which they blame for rising crime rates and overburdened schools, hospitals and
housing.

A statement in late October by the Roman Catholic Bishops Conference of the
Dominican Republic also said, ''Our nation has a limited capacity to absorb
excessive immigration,'' and pleaded for help.

''This is a very sensitive subject,'' said Ambassador Inocencio Garcia, who is
in charge of Dominican-Haitian relations at the Foreign Ministry. ''I can tell
you with all sincerity. We have institutional problems. We are making efforts to
correct them. But in no way can the government of the Dominican Republic be
characterized as one that does not respect basic rights.''

Ambassador Garcia said in an interview that a majority of poor Dominican
children did not have birth certificates. But he did not respond to charges that
Haitian children were routinely denied such documents.

The mayor here in Guatapanal, Jose Francisco Perez, described the Haitians
coming into this town as ''an invasion.'' He said Guatapanal had 2,000 Haitians
and only 500 Dominicans.

Area landowners stopped hiring Dominican workers for $10 a day because Haitians
accepted less than half that, he said.

''Now instead of hiring 40 Dominican workers for a field, they hire 400
Haitians, and the Dominicans are left with nothing,'' Mr. Perez said. ''There's
too many Haitians. If the government is not going to help us get rid of them,
then we will do it ourselves.''

Some landowners criticized the attacks by the Dominicans, and they have brought
back many of the workers who fled.

''The problem is that there is no real justice,'' said Francisco Cabrera, who
rents a few dozen acres of tobacco land here and uses Haitian laborers. He said
the police rarely tried to stop attacks on them. ''So people take justice into
their own hands.''

Polivio Perez Colon, 36, one of the Dominican overseers who led the mobs against
the Haitians, said they did not mean the immigrants any real harm. But he agreed
that the Dominicans here felt outnumbered.

''They are people who do not use bathrooms,'' he said, referring to Haitians,
many of whom live in shacks without running water and electricity. ''They walk
around drinking and making a lot of noise at night. Sometimes the men dance with
each other.

''It's not that they are all bad. But they have to submit to our way of life. If
not, these problems will keep happening.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many children of Haitian workers are denied birth certificates
despite being born in the Dominican Republic.
 Haitian farmworkers in Guatapanal, Dominican Republic, were threatened with
lynching in September after two Dominican laborers were killed under uncertain
circumstances. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)Map of the
Dominican Republic highlighting Guatapanal: Abuse of Haitians by Dominicans has
been reported in Guatapanal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Act Locally. Fail Globally.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 510 words


Taken in isolation, the responses to Long Island's Latino situation reported
last week seemed perfectly reasonable.

In Farmingville, for instance, the management of the 7-Eleven at North Ocean
Avenue and Horseblock Road grew weary of always having knots of unemployed men
hanging around the parking lot. It called the police to shoo them away, or at
least to the sidewalk. A convenience store does not want to be the de facto
day-laborer hiring hall for all of Suffolk County, or an open-air auditorium for
people using picket signs and car horns to debate the nation's immigration
policies. It wants to sell Slurpees.

In tiny, tidy East Hampton Village, police began taking down the license-plate
numbers of vehicles driven by contractors who may or may not have been illegally
hiring undocumented immigrants. The crackdown was centered on the train station,
which had become an unsightly magnet for loitering laborers -- as many as 100
men a day in the summer, said the village administrator, Larry Cantwell.

The village has no authority to enforce federal immigration laws, of course, but
there is nothing that says it can't send license-plate numbers of possible
lawbreakers to the state and federal authorities. The tactic worked, and the
trucks and workers have taken their business elsewhere, like players in a
floating crap game.

No one can seriously fault efforts by local officials and property owners to
maintain order in public spaces, if such things are done peacefully and
evenhandedly. But no one should confuse what has happened in Farmingville and
East Hampton with a solution to the problems posed by undocumented immigrants in
the suburbs.

While those men have gone to ground, this country's response to the outsiders
among us remains an unresolved mess. There is a long chain of responsibility
here, one that includes not only politicians and policy makers at all levels of
government, but employers and homeowners, too. And all too often, it is the
weakest links -- the workers themselves -- who get hurt the most when someone
decides to challenge the schizoid status quo.

Immigration is a complex problem requiring a comprehensive solution -- starting
in Washington. Such a solution would not have to be needlessly hardline or
softheaded. It would entail efforts to make our borders more secure while also
finding a way to normalize the status of illegal immigrants who have risked
their lives to take a vital place on the lowest rungs of our economy. There has
been polarizing and paralyzing debate over various bills, but frustratingly
little progress so far.

As long as the President and Congress fail to come up with a global response,
people acting locally -- from the thoughtful Mr. Cantwell and the beleaguered
owner of the Farmingville 7-Eleven to the nutty vigilantes along the Mexico
border -- will be taking matters into their own hands. They will be fighting a
disease by attacking its symptoms, one symptom at a time. The results may be
satisfactory in some places in the short run. But they are nothing close to a
cure.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Island Rift, Repaired A World Away

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CROWN
HTS./WASHINGTON HTS.; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 430 words


The neighborhoods of Washington Heights, Manhattan, and Crown Heights, Brooklyn,
are miles apart, separated by almost two dozen intervening communities. Unlike
the Dominican Republic and Haiti, countries that supply a large portion of their
respective inhabitants, the two neighborhoods do not share an island, or a
border.

But over the summer and the fall, the talk in both neighborhoods has focused on
a single topic: the proceedings of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights,
which ruled in October that the Dominican Republic was illegally denying birth
certificates, and therefore citizenship, to babies born to Haitian immigrants.
Without these documents, children risk deportation and are cut off from state
services, including education.

The two countries, on the island of Hispaniola, have a fractious history; Haiti
occupied its neighbor from 1822 to 1844, and now sends it large numbers of
illegal low-paid workers, who are both resented and depended on. Many Dominicans
view the court's decision as unjust and believe that their country is
ill-equipped to deal with large numbers of immigrants from Haiti, the poorest
country in the Western Hemisphere.

But many of New York's Dominicans find themselves unexpectedly sympathetic to
the Haitians' situation. ''We're immigrants, and as immigrants we understand
what living in another country is about,'' said Dr. Rafael Lantigua, a
Dominican-American internist at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital. ''We
understand that a human being moves to a town where they can improve their
economic situation. You hear often, among the Dominican community, 'We're the
Haitians here.' ''

The issue even made its way into New York politics. In July, City Councilman
Miguel Martinez, who is Dominican-American, introduced a resolution condemning
discrimination against Haitians within the Dominican Republic. The resolution
passed to widespread praise from Dominican leaders in New York, as well as some
rebuke: Maximo Padilla, a special assistant to Leonel Fernandez, president of
the Dominican Republic, was quoted as saying that the Council was ''ignorant of
private affairs being handled between Haiti and the Dominican Republic.''

Interviews in Washington Heights suggested cautious support for Haitian
immigrants. One Dominican-American who fell into this camp was Francisco
Campusano, who cuts hair at the Celeste Beauty Salon on St. Nicholas Avenue. ''I
think if a child is born on the Dominican side, then he's Dominican,'' he said.
''It's like my son; if he's born here, he's going to be American.''    ALEX
MINDLIN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Think Inside the Box

BYLINE: By Stephen E. Flynn and Lawrence M. Wein.

Stephen E. Flynn, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of
''America the Vulnerable.'' Lawrence M. Wein is a professor at Stanford's
graduate school of business.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 967 words


THIS week President Bush will seek to focus the nation's attention on border
security and immigration reform. But the president's proposals won't protect
Americans from our gravest cross-border threat: the possibility that a ship,
truck or train will one day import a 40-foot cargo container in which terrorists
have hidden a dirty bomb or nuclear weapon.

The Bush administration maintains that it has a smart strategy to reduce this
risk. A new 24-Hour Rule requires that importers report the contents of their
containers to customs inspectors one day before the boxes are loaded on ships
bound for the United States. The Department of Homeland Security's National
Targeting Center then reviews the data, checking against other intelligence to
determine which boxes may pose a threat. Although the containers deemed high
risk are inspected at cooperating foreign ports or when they enter the United
States, the rest -- more than 90 percent -- land here without any perusal.

We have two concerns about this strategy. First, it presumes that the United
States government has good enough intelligence about Al Qaeda to reliably
discern which containers are suspicious and which are not. But our inability to
thwart the attacks in Iraq demonstrates that we lack such specific tactical
intelligence. And supporting customs inspectors, who must make the first
assessment of risk, is not a priority for the intelligence agencies. Inspectors
must rely on their experience in spotting anomalies -- a company that claims to
be exporting pineapples from Iceland, for example.

Second, determined terrorists can easily take advantage of the knowledge that
customs inspectors routinely designate certain shipments as low risk. A
container frequently makes 10 or more stops between its factory of origin and
the vessel carrying it to American shores. Many of the way stations are in
poorly policed parts of the world. Because name-brand companies like Wal-Mart
and General Motors are widely known to be considered low-risk, terrorists need
only to stake out their shipment routes and exploit the weakest points to
introduce a weapon of mass destruction. A terrorist cell posing as a legal
shipping company for more than two years, or a terrorist truck driver hauling
goods from a well-known shipper, can also be confident of being perceived as low
risk.

So what needs to be done? A pilot project under way in Hong Kong, the world's
largest container port along with Singapore, offers one piece of a potential
solution. At an estimated cost of $7 per container, new technology can
photograph the box's exterior, screen for radioactive material, and collect a
gamma-ray image of a box's contents while the truck on which it is carried moves
at 10 miles per hour.

Terrorists can defeat radiation sensors by shielding a dirty bomb with dense
materials like lead. But by combining those sensors with gamma ray images, the
Hong Kong system allows inspectors to sound the alarm on suspiciously dense
objects. Inspectors would need to analyze enough of the scans -- perhaps 20
percent to 30 percent -- to convince terrorists that there is a good chance that
an indistinct image will lead a container's contents to be sent for more
reliable X-ray or manual examinations. Images of container contents would then
be reviewed remotely by inspectors inside the United States who are trained to
spot possible nuclear weapons.

If terrorists were to succeed in shipping a dirty bomb, for example, the
database of these images could serve as a kind of black box -- an invaluable
forensic tool in the effort to identify how and where security was breached.
That information could help prevent politicians from reacting spasmodically and
freezing the entire container system after an attack.

Such a program could significantly reduce the likelihood that terrorists will
smuggle plutonium or a dirty bomb through American ports. But it still would not
stop a terrorist from importing highly enriched uranium, which can be used to
construct a nuclear weapon. Lengthening the time that a container is screened
for radiation would help, and this could be done without increasing waiting
times if additional monitors were added to the Hong Kong system near the gate
where the trucks must already stop for driver identification checks. Better
still would be for the Department of Homeland Security to make the development
of new technology that can recognize the unique signature of highly enriched
uranium an urgent priority.

Finally, we must find ways to ensure that terrorists do not breach containers
before shipments arrive at loading ports. Sensors should be installed inside
containers in order to track their movements, detect any infiltration and
discern the presence of radioactive material. Where boxes are loaded, certified
independent inspectors should verify that companies have followed adequate
protocols to ensure that legitimate and authorized goods are being shipped.

Taken together, these recommendations will require new investments and an
extraordinary degree of international cooperation. But increased container
security will not only help the United States prevent terrorism, it will also
help all countries reduce theft, stop the smuggling of drugs and humans, crack
down on tariff evasion and improve export controls. What's more, such a program
would require an investment of just one one-hundredth of the capital that could
be lost if we shut down the global container shipping system after an attack.

Container security is a complex problem with enormous stakes. American officials
insist that existing programs have matters well in hand. But we cannot afford to
take these perky reassurances at face value while the same officials fail to
embrace promising initiatives like the Hong Kong pilot project.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2006



CORRECTION: On Nov. 29 and Feb. 28, the Op-Ed page published articles co-written
by Stephen E. Flynn, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, on the
need to scan shipping containers. An article last Monday in the news pages of
The Times reported that Mr. Flynn had earlier been a paid consultant to Science
Applications International Corporation, which manufactured a container-scanning
system.

  The Times's Op-Ed contract compels contributors to disclose potential
conflicts of interest, but not past ones. In this regard, Mr. Flynn did not
violate the contract. However, had the editors known of Mr. Flynn's previous
relationship with Science Applications International, they would have made that
information available to readers.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Most Mexican Immigrants in New Study Gave Up Jobs to Take Their Chances in U.S.

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 929 words


A report about the work lives of recent Mexican immigrants in seven cities
across the United States suggests that they typically traded jobs in Mexico for
the prospect of work here, despite serious bouts of unemployment, job
instability and poor wages.

The report, released Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center, was based on surveys of
nearly 5,000 Mexicans, most of them here illegally.

Those surveyed were seeking identity documents at Mexican consulates in New
York, Atlanta and Raleigh, N.C., where recent arrivals have gravitated toward
construction, hotel and restaurant jobs, and in Dallas, Chicago, Los Angeles,
and Fresno, Calif., where they have been more likely to work in agriculture and
manufacturing.

Unlike the stereotype of jobless Mexicans heading north, most of the immigrants
had been employed in Mexico, the report found.

Once in the United States, they soon found that their illegal status was no
barrier to being hired here. And though the jobs they landed, typically with
help from relatives, were often unstable and their median earnings only $300 a
week, that was enough to keep drawing newcomers because wages here far exceeded
those in Mexico.

''We're getting a peek at a segment of the U.S. labor force that is large, that
is growing by illegal migration, and that is bringing an entirely new set of
issues into the U.S. labor market,'' said Rakesh Kochhar, associate director for
research at the Pew Hispanic Center and author of the study.

The report suggested that policies intended to reduce migration pressures by
improving the Mexican economy would have to look beyond employment to wages and
perceptions of opportunity.

The survey found that the most recent to arrive were more likely to have worked
in construction or commerce, rather than agriculture, in Mexico. Only 5 percent
had been unemployed there; they were ''drawn not from the fringes, but from the
heart of Mexico's labor force,'' the report said.

After a difficult transition in their first six months in the United States --
about 15 percent of the respondents said they did not work during that time --
the rate of unemployment plummeted, to an average of 5 percent.

But in one of the most striking findings, 38 percent reported an unemployment
spell lasting a month or more in the previous year, regardless of their
location, legal status or length of time in the United States.

''These are workers with no safety net,'' Mr. Kochhar said. ''The long-run
implication is a generation of workers without health or pension benefits,
without any meaningful asset accumulation.''

On the other hand, Mr. Kochhar and Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic
Center, said the flexibility of this work force was a boon to certain industries
like home construction, an important part of the nation's economic growth since
the last recession.

Among respondents to the survey, those who settled in Atlanta and Dallas were
the best off, with 56 percent in each city receiving a weekly wage higher than
the $300-a-week median. The worst off were in Fresno, where more than half of
the survey respondents worked in agriculture and 60 percent reported earning
less than $300 a week. The lowest wages were reported by women, people who spoke
little or no English, and those without identification.

To some scholars of immigration, the report underlines the lack of incentives
for employers to turn to a guest worker program like the one proposed by
President Bush because their needs are met cheaply by illegal workers -- and all
without paperwork or long-term commitment.

Guest workers might instead appeal to corporations like Wal-Mart, the scholars
said, where service jobs are now the target of union organizing drives.

''You can't plausibly argue that immigrant-dominated sectors have a labor
shortage,'' said Robert Courtney Smith, a sociologist and author of ''Mexican
New York: Transnational Lives of New Immigrants.'' Instead, he said, the report
and evidence of falling wages among Mexican immigrants over time point to an
oversupply of vulnerable workers competing with each other.

But Brendan Flanagan, a spokesman for the National Restaurant Association, which
supports a guest worker program, disagreed. ''In many places it is difficult to
fill jobs with domestic workers,'' Mr. Flanagan said. ''We've seen a simple lack
of applicants, regardless of what wage is offered.''

Although the survey, conducted from July 2004 to January 2005, was not random or
weighted to represent all Mexican immigrants, it offers a close look at a
usually elusive population.

Those surveyed were not questioned directly about their immigration status, but
they were asked whether they had any photo identification issued by a government
agency in the United States. Slightly more than half over all, and 75 percent in
New York, said they did not.

The migration is part of a historic restructuring of the Mexican economy
comparable to America's industrial revolution, said Kathleen Newland, director
of the Migration Policy Institute, a research organization based in Washington.

The institute released its own report on Tuesday, arguing that border
enforcement efforts have failed. Workplace enforcement, which has been
neglected, would be a crucial part of making a guest worker program successful.

For now, Mexicans keep arriving illegally.

''It doesn't matter if it's winter,'' said Ricardo Cortes, 23, a construction
worker waiting for a friend outside the Mexican consulate in New York on
Tuesday. ''People are still coming because there's no money over there.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 8, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Buyers of Ballplayer Phone Cards Say They Were Robbed

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 679 words


For millions of foreign visitors and immigrants in New York, it has long been a
lifeline to home: the prepaid phone card, costing as little as $2 at the corner
bodega, good for bargain-rate international calls that are charged by the
minute.

Now, in a case involving bodega owners, Major League Baseball and some of its
most celebrated Hispanic players, the phone cards are the focus of charges
including false advertising, overcharging and fraud.

Yesterday, at a sidewalk news conference in front of Major League Baseball's
Park Avenue headquarters, the Bodega Association of the United States, a trade
group, described what it called a huge swindle aimed at low-income
Spanish-speaking people. The cards, which bear the photographs of baseball stars
like the Mets pitcher Pedro Martinez, either do not work at all or provide far
less calling time than advertised, the bodega owners say.

''The important thing for bodegas is to maintain the trust of people in our
community,'' said Jose Fernandez, president of the association, which says it
represents 7,000 bodega owners in the city and suburbs. He said the bodega
owners, many of them immigrants with limited English skills, are being duped
into buying the faulty cards, just as their customers are.

Inginia Garcia, who operates a bodega on Monterey Avenue in the East Tremont
section of the Bronx, said: ''Our customers get angry.''

Besides Martinez, Mets general manager Omar Minaya; Baltimore Orioles shortstop
Miguel Tejada; Los Angeles Angels outfielder Vladimir Guerrero; Boston Red Sox
slugger David Ortiz; and Oakland Athletics pitcher Octavio Dotel have appeared
on the cards, all in uniform, and typically captured in action on the ball
field, as they might appear on a box of Wheaties.

Carmine Tiso, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, said it had not known that
photos of the players, or of Minaya, had been used to promote phone cards until
this week. He said the league had not approved the use of their images, which is
required because league uniforms appear in the pictures. He also said the league
had begun its own investigation that could lead to disciplinary action against
the players.

Norman Siegel, a lawyer for the bodega owners, said an investigation into who
was responsible for making and distributing the cards had not been completed. He
said that tracing the production, distribution and sales of the cards might be
difficult.

Spanish-speaking customers have encountered similar swindles for years, the
bodega owners said, but the complaints have multiplied in recent months as the
faulty phone cards with the ballplayers' pictures have begun circulating under
the brand name Grandes Ligas, or big leagues.

''These ballplayers are the heroes of our community,'' said Anthony Miranda,
chairman of the National Latino Officers Association of America, a police group,
who joined the news conference.

Richard Lipsky, a spokesman for the bodega owners' group, said it was
considering a lawsuit against the phone card manufacturers and distributors,
perhaps also naming Major League Baseball, Mr. Minaya and the players whose
photographs are on the cards as defendants. The threat of a lawsuit was reported
on Monday by The New York Post.

But Mr. Siegel said yesterday that the lawsuit had been put off until the phone
card problem was explored further, and in the hope that Major League Baseball
would join forces with the bodega owners, providing public and financial support
for the suit.

Mr. Tiso, of Major League Baseball, declined to say whether the league would aid
the bodega owners. ''We would prefer to have a discussion with them directly,
not through the media,'' he said.

Mr. Siegel said his group would also urge the state attorney general, Eliot
Spitzer, the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department to investigate.

Christine Pritchard, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer, said his office would review
the complaint. She said customers who thought they had been bilked by faulty
phone cards should contact Mr. Spitzer's office to help it build a legal case.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Users say Grandes Ligas prepaid phone cards do not work well.
 Inginia Garcia, who owns a Bronx bodega, was among those outside Major League
Baseball's offices complaining about telephone calling cards. (Photographs by
Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Victims of Abuse Are Illegally Denied Benefits, Suit Says

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words


Hundreds of battered immigrant women and children are being illegally denied
food stamps and other aid because of programming errors in New York welfare
computers and faulty staff training, according to legal papers that poverty
lawyers plan to file in federal court today.

The lawsuit is a last resort, the lawyers said, because city and state officials
have failed to fix systemic problems that force many women to choose between
staying safe and feeding their families, despite government policies aimed at
supporting them until they can get on their feet.

At its most basic level, the problem lies in the pull-down computer menu that
caseworkers use when they enter information about a noncitizen applying for aid.
The list of eligible immigration categories mistakenly omits ''battered
qualified alien,'' the category in which these women and children fit. So
workers systematically reject them, with faulty state training manuals
compounding the problem, the lawyers said.

''We have clients who have chosen to return to the abuser rather than not have
food for their children,'' said Elizabeth S. Saylor, a lawyer with the Domestic
Violence Project of the Legal Aid Society, one of the groups bringing the
lawsuit in federal court in Manhattan as a class action. ''People try to escape,
but what's worse for the children, to see their mom get abused, or to be in the
shelter and go hungry?''

Bob McHugh, a spokesman for the city's Human Resources Administration, defended
the agency. ''We have worked every day, including with groups like Legal Aid, to
make our delivery of service even better,'' he said. ''They've chosen to
litigate this matter, so let them have their day in court.''

Officials at the state Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance and the
state Department of Health, also named as defendants, said they could not
comment before reviewing the papers.

The papers describe the dark side of a common immigration story. Many of the
women had come with children to join a husband in New York after years of
separation, when their visas came through. But the reunions turned ugly, often
after the woman had become pregnant again.

The abuse, documented in orders of protection, police reports and letters from
domestic violence shelters, is not in question.

More than a dozen plaintiffs, mostly identified only by initials, include a
woman from Senegal helping to prosecute the man accused of torturing her and
murdering her sister; a Mexican mother of three whose abusive husband tracked
her from Texas to New York; and a Bangladeshi woman whose husband, since
hospitalized for mental illness, repeatedly kicked her in the stomach while she
was pregnant, then cut up her clothes and threatened to kill her when she tried
to go to work after the birth of their second daughter.

Last year the Bangladeshi woman fled to a domestic violence shelter with her
daughters, now 6 and 2. But when she applied for public benefits at a city Job
Center, showing visas, work authorization cards, and proof of abuse, caseworkers
wrongly told her that only the baby, a citizen, was eligible for aid, the papers
say.

It took several efforts and a letter from a lawyer at the shelter to persuade
officials that she and her 6-year-old were also eligible for help. Even then,
supervisors could not figure out how to get around the computer system, the
papers said, so it has repeatedly rejected the case for ''errors.''

Affidavits by lawyers who have handled scores of such cases depicted advocacy on
behalf of individuals as a Kafkaesque cul de sac. Even though administrative
''fair hearings'' overrule denials, the decisions are worded too vaguely to
overcome the conventional wisdom reinforced by the computer screen. A few times,
workers managed to get around the system by filling in false information, but
aid was soon cut off again, because the recipient's immigration documents did
not match what had been entered in the computer.

In part, the situation reflects the complexities created when Congress
restricted many federal benefits to newcomers in the 1996 welfare overhaul, then
added a patchwork of exceptions. State programs filled other gaps.

''It's a nightmare,'' said a dressmaker from Jamaica who joined her husband
legally with their two children last year, and fled with them to a homeless
shelter when she was eight-and-a-half-months pregnant. Her abusive husband, she
said, had threatened to feed rat poison to the children, who are 7 and 9.

A caseworker denied her and the older children food stamps, cash assistance and
Medicaid because they had no Social Security numbers to satisfy one of the
computer prompts. They are now subsisting on school lunches and her newborn's
allotment of aid: $68.50 every two weeks, and $119 a month in food stamps.

In an affidavit, she wrote: ''Although I am breastfeeding, I regularly do not
eat enough because we do not have enough money. Because I am hungry, I
oftentimes feel weak and suffer headaches. I have watched myself and my children
lose weight and feel helpless to reverse it.''

Friday evening, as the baby slept in the crowded lobby of the homeless shelter,
the children reminisced about what they used to eat in Jamaica.

''Sometimes we had chicken and rice,'' the boy said.

''And we had dumplings,'' the girl remembered.

''Salt fish!'' the boy added, eyeing the chips in the vending machines.

Asked if he wanted to go back to Jamaica, he fell silent. ''I want to stay with
my mommy,'' he whispered.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman who left Jamaica to join her husband in New York said he
became abusive while she was pregnant with their third child. She fled to a
homeless shelter. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 17, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

L.I. Is Ordered To Give Notice Of House Raids

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 367 words


A federal judge ruled yesterday that Long Island officials cracking down on
houses overcrowded with Hispanic day laborers must give advance notice, unless
there is an immediate threat to safety.

Judge Joanna Seybert issued the ruling in United States District Court in
Central Islip.

The case was prompted by the ''Operation Firestorm'' enforcement campaign that
Brookhaven started earlier this year. Town officials identified hundreds of
houses where illegal overcrowding was suspected, and raided and shut down
several of them, citing dangerous conditions and zoning and building code
violations. Dozens of tenants were evicted at each place.

Most of the houses are in Farmingville, where the influx in recent years of
thousands of Mexicans, many of them illegal immigrants, has made the community a
flashpoint in the growing national debate over immigration. Some longtime
residents organized protests against overcrowded houses and the street-corner
crowds of day laborers seeking work.

The ruling was a partial victory for the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund and the Workplace Project advocacy group, which filed a John Doe
class action on behalf of 10 pseudonymous tenants named ''Juan Valdez.'' The
suit claimed that they were forced into homelessness, denied due process and
discriminated against.

''Only Latinos were evicted in this campaign that threw out hundreds into the
streets,'' said Cesar Perales, president of the Puerto Rican fund.

While agreeing on notice, the judge denied the tenants' requests to restrict
further enforcement, get advice from an impartial expert and require more
relocation assistance.

The town's lawyer, Jeltje deJong, noted in an interview that the ruling allowed
the town to close a house in case of imminent danger. But the judge found that
the town had cracked down without first pressing landlords to correct the
violations.

Town policy is already headed for a change under the administration of Brian X.
Foley, who is to take office on Jan. 1 as Brookhaven's first Democratic
supervisor in three decades.

''Under our administration, prior notice will be issued in a timely manner in
order for violations to be cured,'' Mr. Foley said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tensions Rise As More Flee Cuba for U.S.

BYLINE: BY ABBY GOODNOUGH; Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Miami for
this article.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 17


The number of Cubans intercepted at sea while trying to reach the United States
is at its highest level since tens of thousands took to the Florida Straits on
makeshift rafts and in small boats in the 1994 exodus sanctioned by President
Fidel Castro.

The sharp rise -- and an increase in clashes between would-be immigrants and the
Coast Guard -- are inflaming tensions over a policy enacted in response to the
1994 migration that allows Cubans without visas to stay if they reach American
soil but turns back those caught at sea.

The ''wet foot, dry foot'' policy, which does not apply to any other immigrant
group, is being blamed by critics for at least 39 deaths this year in the
Florida Straits and is testing the resolve of the Coast Guard, which the critics
say has become too aggressive in enforcing the restrictions.

In offering a permanent escape to Cubans who make it here, they say, the policy
encourages them to risk their lives.

Coast Guard data show that as of Friday, 2,683 Cubans had been intercepted at
sea this year, nearly double the number for all of 2004. And while the high
season for migrant crossings, when the sailing tends to be smoothest, is already
past, scores have kept trying the journey despite the perils.

Some of the migrants, hoping to avoid confrontations with Coast Guard patrols,
are taking unusual routes, to the United States Virgin Islands and the Gulf
Coast of Florida. A fast-growing number -- including 6,744 counted by Customs
and Border Patrol in the fiscal year that ended in September -- are entering the
United States by slipping across the Mexican border, often after sailing some
500 miles to Honduras from Cuba.

The State Department says the new wave of migrants is a result of increasingly
repressive policies in Cuba, the island's crumbling economy and Mr. Castro's
refusal to let more Cubans sign up for a lottery under which the United States
is supposed to grant 20,000 visas a year.

But some Cuban-Americans in South Florida say that new limits on their visits
and on the money they can send to relatives on the island, imposed by the Bush
administration last year, have led to greater desperation among many Cubans.

Ever more aggressive smuggling has also played a role. Far more Cubans are
making it to American shores, including, for example, 14 migrants discovered
near a parking lot on Marco Island, Fla., a few days after Thanksgiving. About
2,530 completed the journey to South Florida in the last fiscal year, compared
with 954 the year before, according to the Border Patrol.

''The message to Cuban families is that if you don't want to wait in line, your
relatives in Miami can pay $8,000 and you've got a good chance to make it
here,'' said Philip Peters, a Cuba analyst at the Lexington Institute, a
research group in Washington. ''It really is a glaring exception in the whole
homeland security policy.''

One incident this fall perhaps best encapsulated the growing resolve of Cubans
to slip into this country and of the federal government to keep them out.

Florida television audiences watched as government agents struggled to keep 10
migrants in a homemade metal vessel from reaching the beach just north of Miami
after a Customs and Border Protection boat bumped it hard enough to spill some
of the migrants overboard. Coast Guard boats had also sprayed the vessel with a
hose and tried stalling its engine with a rope during a prolonged showdown with
the migrants, all men.

''We are needlessly putting innocent lives at risk,'' said Cheryl Little,
executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, which helps Cuban
and other migrants pursue asylum claims. ''Our Coast Guard is being put in the
untenable position of endangering lives in order to keep people from reaching
our shores.''

Luis Diaz, a spokesman for the Coast Guard in Miami, said that the agency's
tactics had not become more aggressive but that unlike in the past, it was
working closely with agencies like Customs and Border Protection since becoming
part of the Department of Homeland Security in 2002.

''We are working better and smarter with our partners,'' Mr. Diaz said. ''Before
we were in Homeland Security we had different radios, different frequencies, and
now we are working together behind the same equipment.''

The number of Cubans being intercepted is by far the highest since 1994, when
37,000 took to the Florida Straits after Mr. Castro announced that his
government would no longer stop boats or rafts leaving the island. It was a
hostile move against the United States and a way for Mr. Castro to divert
attention from his domestic problems and quell an uprising against him on the
island, similar to when he let 125,000 Cubans leave in the Mariel boatlift of
1980.

The 1994 exodus led the United States and Cuba to agree on the wet foot, dry
foot policy in 1995, ending this country's longtime practice of admitting all
Cuban migrants as refugees.

Many of the Cuban migrants are paying thousands of dollars, often provided by
relatives here, to smugglers who whisk them across the Florida Straits on
speedboats, several of which capsized this year. In one such case, a 6-year-old
boy drowned after the boat he was riding in fled a Coast Guard cutter in
October. In another, an Antiguan merchant ship rescued three migrants who said
that 31 others had drowned when their 28-foot boat overturned in August.

Others are still trying the dangerous trip on rafts or vessels of their own
making, some of which are spotted by fishing boats and cruise ships that report
them to the Coast Guard. Those intercepted at sea can get preliminary asylum
interviews aboard Coast Guard cutters, but only a few are deemed eligible for
second interviews. They get sent to the United States Naval Station in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

If found to have a credible fear of persecution, they still cannot come to the
United States and instead are resettled in other countries like Spain and
Australia.

Only about 2.5 percent of Cubans intercepted at sea in the last fiscal year were
taken to Guantanamo and considered for asylum, according to the Department of
Homeland Security. Even of those, most were eventually returned to Cuba.

Even as the number of Cuban migrants balloons and President Bush proposes new
laws to curb illegal immigration, there is no plan to re-examine the wet foot,
dry foot policy, said Janelle Hironimus, a State Department spokeswoman. She
said Mr. Castro's policies were behind the increase in migration efforts.

''Castro's repression of his own people and refusal to allow the basic freedoms
enjoyed by people everywhere have led to a mass migration by the Cuban people,''
Ms. Hironimus said.

But some Cuban-Americans in South Florida say Mr. Bush's refusal to make
exceptions to the current policy is evidence that he is deserting the
anti-Castro cause.

They were particularly angered by a case last month in which Jorge Ernesto
Leyva, who had recently emigrated from Cuba, drove a rented speedboat to Havana
from Key West, packed the 27-foot boat with 37 relatives and tried to return
here clandestinely. But the sea turned violent and as the passengers were
bailing water, a Coast Guard helicopter spotted the boat and directed a cutter
to intercept it.

The Coast Guard crew had transferred only about half of the migrants to its
cutter when the speedboat capsized, trapping two grandmothers and a 9-year-old
girl underneath. The girl's mother dived under the boat to rescue the girl, but
nobody saved the two women -- even though Mr. Leyva and others on his boat said
they begged the Coast Guard crew to do so.

Mr. Diaz, the Coast Guard spokesman, said rescue diving was not part of the
Coast Guard's standard procedures.

''People ask us, 'Go underneath the hull,' '' he said. ''Well, we don't carry
divers. If our personnel jumped in the water, then no one is going to be manning
the ship. We have just enough persons to run a vessel. We don't have extra
bodies to do things some of these relatives want us to do.''

Mr. Leyva and a teenager on the boat were brought to Florida because they had
been admitted previously. The others asked permission to attend the funerals of
the drowned women, who were 74 and 60. But the Department of Homeland Security
denied their request and returned them to Cuba.

''We are concerned about the policy and the effect it has on the way the Coast
Guard does its business,'' said Matthew Archambeault, a lawyer for Mr. Leyva and
his family. ''We do feel they sacrifice safety to keep people away from dry
land.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martha Rodriguez de Lopez, left, was consoled by a friend,
Vivian Leon, in Miami after the death of her mother, who tried to reach Florida
by boat. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)
 The Coast Guard kept 10 Cuban men from reaching a Florida beach in September.
(Photo by WTVJ/NBC6)(pg. 44)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Albanian Gang Portrayed as Aspiring Mafiosi

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 736 words


A gang led by Albanian immigrants transformed itself into a sixth organized
crime family in New York City, administering ruthless beatings and using
intimidation and sheer bravado to take over lucrative gambling operations once
controlled by Italian mobsters, a federal prosecutor said.

''This organization existed for one reason -- greed and to make money,'' the
prosecutor, Jennifer Rodgers, told a jury in Federal District Court in Manhattan
yesterday during closing arguments in the trial. ''They didn't want to make
money the old-fashioned way. They wanted to make it through violence, fear and
intimidation.''

It was the third month in the trial of six defendants accused of being members
of a violent organized crime group called the Corporation. Ms. Rodgers said that
in the course of several years, Nikola Dedaj, a defendant whom she called the
Albanian mob's chief enforcer, wrested control of territory formerly controlled
by the five Italian crime families. ''They make mistakes somewhere; we move in
and take it,'' she quoted Mr. Dedaj as saying.

Members of the Albanian organization felt so sure of themselves that they
claimed John Gotti's old table at Rao's, the exclusive East Harlem restaurant
patronized by writers and reputed Italian crime family members, Ms. Rodgers
said.

She detailed a series of brutal beatings, saying that fear was the chief means
by which the Albanians asserted their control of illegal gambling operations in
the Bronx, Astoria and Westchester.

One defendant, she said, was lauded for his ''courage'' in strangling an old man
with a shoelace, ''until his eyes were popping out of his head.'' Another
defendant, she said, complained on tape that a beating victim's blood had
dirtied his off-white pants.

The defendants were indicted in October 2004 on charges of being members of an
organization whose accused leader is Alex Rudaj. From the early 1990's until
2004, according to the indictment, the defendants gained control of businesses
through the threat of violence and forced various social clubs that also ran
gambling operations to give them money in exchange for protection. In addition
to Mr. Rudaj and Mr. Dedaj, the indictment named Prenka Ivezaj, Ljusa Nuculovic,
Angelo DiPietro and Nardino Colotti.

The charges include racketeering, attempted murder, extortion, loan-sharking and
operation of a large-scale illegal gambling business, including gambling
parlors, gambling machines and bookmaking.

Defense lawyers have acknowledged that the six were involved in gambling
operations, but have denied that they were part of an organized crime operation.

''What we object to is the concept of an organization,'' Ron Rubinstein, the
lawyer for Mr. Ivezaj, said yesterday. ''As we used to say in the schoolyard,
they made a federal case out of a little gambling.''

Mr. Rubinstein said there was no corroboration of an accused mobster's boast
that the Albanian group had taken over Mr. Gotti's table. He said that the
defendants had attended Mr. Gotti's funeral, but said they were just
''wannabes'' who were ''hoping to be noticed.''

Ms. Rodgers, the prosecutor, said the Albanian crime ring had controlled a
network of 50 video gambling machines. The machines themselves, a type of arcade
game, are not illegal, but it is illegal to pay money to winners. The ring
collected protection payments and illegal gambling proceeds weekly from various
restaurants and social clubs in the Bronx and Astoria.

One machine, Ms. Rodgers said, could generate more than $7,000 a week. But even
by a conservative estimate, she said, 100 machines generating $750 a week would
produce $4 million a year.

She told how one defendant tried to get a club bouncer fired because he refused
to admit a member of the crime organization who was wearing sneakers. The same
defendant, she said, refused to pay a $1,400 bill at the club, and put his gun
on the table as a way of intimidating anyone who tried to collect.

''They try to take businesses or business interests from people by threatening
them,'' she said.

After a showdown between Italians and Albanians at a club called Soccer Fever in
Astoria, Mr. Ivezaj was recorded, in a tape played for the jury during the
trial, saying that if the Italians had pulled their guns, ''Everybody dies.
Guaranteed. Nobody walks out of there alive. Either them or us.'' The trial will
continue today with closing arguments by the defense.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 25, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shoppers in a Parallel Paradise

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

DATELINE: SLEEPY HOLLOW


WHEN Pedro Urgiles started his accounting business here more than a decade ago,
there were only a handful of Spanish-speaking store owners along Beekman Avenue.
The village's Ecuadorean immigrants, like Mr. Urgiles, patronized few stores.
But as soon as he opened up shop, the customers began filing in.

They weren't necessarily there for accounting help.

''They said, 'Pedro, tomorrow it is supposed to rain, I need an umbrella,' so I
brought in umbrellas,'' Mr. Urgiles said. ''They said 'Pedro, I would like to
get some socks,' so I brought in socks. They said, 'Pedro, I like this music,'
so I started selling this music.''

Mr. Urgiles's business eventually branched out even further -- after he noticed
how much help his customers needed at income-tax deadline time. They arrived
carrying receipts and pay stubs bundled together with rubber bands; they had
done almost nothing to stay organized throughout the year.

Most were Ecuadorean immigrants like himself, and they needed phone cards. They
needed documents to be notarized, and a place to buy photo identification cards.
Mr. Urgiles began selling it all.

These days Canario Express is brimming with enough merchandise to make a
five-and-dime look limited. And it has company: Dozens of signs in Spanish crowd
the storefront windows that line these blocks. In fact, the bustling immigrant
businesses and the larger shopping district that surrounds them, uninvolved,
seem to exist in parallel economic universes.

Nearly all of the hundreds of customers Mr. Urgiles sees regularly are
immigrants from Latin America; he estimates that more than 90 percent are from
Ecuador. The vast majority live in or around Sleepy Hollow (though a few come
from places like Peekskill or Mount Kisco because the store is one of only a few
places that sell Ecuadorean newspapers and magazines).

Beyond Sleepy Hollow, in places like Ossining, Tarrytown, New Rochelle and Port
Chester, the immigrant-owned stores are changing the character of central
business districts -- and changing the way business is done. They are thriving
from the cash of Latino customers who once existed under the radar of local
governments and business owners. They rely on an ever-growing customer base of
new immigrants, and on devotion to the business model that Mr. Urgiles has found
so successful: if you provide it, they will buy it.

On Main Street in Port Chester, for example, storefront mannequins wear
sparkling dresses for sale, in the same stores that offer school backpacks and
men's work boots. Few items cost more than $40 to $50.

For shoppers used to carefully pruned department and specialty stores, the
hodgepodge can be bewildering. But immigrant customers remain loyal, for reasons
of both economic necessity and simple convenience.

''I know that I can find everything I need without problems, without worrying
about a special sale, and from someone I can speak to easily,'' said Carmen
Morales, a 38-year-old Port Chester resident who immigrated from Colombia. She
often buys presents for baptisms or weddings from the stores here. ''If I want
something they don't have, they will order it for me and call me as soon as it
comes.''

When a large new shopping mall opened in the village last spring, Ms. Morales
said, she made a couple of trips to Marshalls and the Designer Shoe Warehouse,
but she grew tired of the crowds. All of the Christmas gifts for her two young
daughters and several nieces and nephews came from locally owned stores this
year, she said.

Such customers ''have to be taken seriously because of the amount of money they
are spending,'' said Linda Rey, president of the Sleepy Hollow Chamber of
Commerce, adding that her father built Rey Insurance Company through the 1970's
and 80's in part by catering to Spanish-speaking recent arrivals. ''People have
catered to their own since Ellis Island -- that's why you have little pockets of
ethnic businesses everywhere.''

In Ossining, the Chamber of Commerce estimates that nearly one-third of the
businesses are owned by Latino immigrants, but only a handful of the owners are
members of the chamber.

''We have tried to dig them out, but it is difficult, either because they don't
see the benefit of it or because there is a language barrier,'' said Jerry
Gershner, vice president of the Greater Ossining Chamber of Commerce. ''To the
extent that a store holds itself out to be a Latino store, with signs in Spanish
or whatever, probably the Americans, the Caucasians, won't go there.''

There are now so many Hispanic-owned businesses that competition is becoming a
problem. More than 2,500 Latino-owned businesses have opened in the county in
the last 10 years, said John Samalot, a Tuckahoe-based business consultant -- so
many that some newer owners feel some hostility from better established
businesses. Mr. Samalot conducted a study in 2000 for the Westchester Hispanic
Chamber of Commerce.

Mr. Samalot pointed to the proliferation of stores like Mr. Urgiles's, side by
side with recuerdos, shops that sell knickknacks for baptisms and Sweet 16
celebrations.

''The surge in growth proves that wherever there is a Hispanic community, there
is Hispanic business,'' he said. ''Now, the concern is that the market could get
overcrowded if they create the same kinds of businesses. There's a certain point
at which you max out to what you can sell and what they will buy. ''

Which is why Mr. Samalot encourages merchants to find their own particular
niche. For the last several years, in a course he has taught for aspiring
business owners, he has emphasized this approach as key to attracting shoppers
from their own home communities as well as customers from the outside.

He singles out Alida Yougez, the owner of Union Avenue Liquors in New Rochelle,
as an example of how to succeed. Ms. Yougez says her husband bought the store
eight years ago, as a sort of surprise gift for her.

''I didn't have a plan for the business and I knew absolutely nothing,'' she
said. ''I had never been to a bar. I didn't know a thing about wine. I had no
idea how much it would cost to buy stock.''

The shelves were so empty that she strategically placed plants to cover up the
bare spots. But within weeks, she had a solution: She would order hard-to-find
tequilas, the kind she knew people drank in her native state of Jalisco, Mexico.

''The only thing I could tell you about rum was the name Bacardi,'' she said,
''but I knew people here wanted what they knew, too.''

Now Ms. Yougez sells 185 kinds of tequila. Though she speaks almost impeccable
English and offers plenty of other types of alcohol, she estimates that 90
percent of her customers are Mexicans living in New Rochelle, mostly from the
Union Avenue neighborhood.

Even if the market is limited, it is strong enough for Ms. Yougez to make a
comfortable profit, she said. When her regular customers come in, they discuss
more than their purchases. They exchange news about their native villages and
their children's teachers. Ms. Yougez always dispenses the latest news along
with the latest tequila shipment.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pedro Urgiles's store, Canario Express, on Beekman Avenue in
Sleepy Hollow, which overflows with merchandise. Nearly all of the hundreds of
customers he sees are immigrants from Latin America. (Photographs by Susan
Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Pedro Urgiles helps a customer, Luis D. Tenezaca, holding his baby, Juan, at
Mr. Urgiles's store, Canario Express, in Sleepy Hollow. At El Trigal Mexican
Bakery in New Rochelle are Jose Ayala, left, Veronica Balbuena, bakery owner,
and Alex Castellano. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 26, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trading Status For a Raise

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER and FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words


Ricardo Stefano spends 11 hours a day, five days a week brushing the scuffed
oxfords and dusty loafers of businessmen near Grand Central Terminal, something
he has been doing since arriving from Brazil 15 years ago.

Shining shoes was a step down from fixing glasses in his father's eyeglass shop,
particularly for someone with a year of college under his belt. But trailblazing
compatriots told him he could make far more money shining shoes in New York than
he could fixing glasses in Brazil, and the rumors turned out to be true. At age
43, he makes $500 a week, half of which he sends back to his estranged wife and
three children in the state of Minas Gerais. He has not seen his children since
he left. But Mr. Stefano does not regret his decision.

''When you come to this country, you know what kind of job you will find --
because you don't have language, you don't have papers,'' he said. ''That's the
price you pay.''

Brazilian immigrants in the New York area are emerging as one of the city's
faster growing ethnic groups, but unlike most Latin Americans who come here
poor, ill-educated and willing to spirit across borders, Brazilians more often
tend to come from a range of middle-class backgrounds, are well-schooled and can
afford to fly here legally. Experts on these immigrants, like Maxine L.
Margolis, a professor of anthropology at the University of Florida in
Gainesville, say that Brazilians qualify for tourist visas, which require proof
of jobs and savings accounts, then often intentionally overstay them.

Once in the United States, even those with college degrees are willing to work
as housekeepers, limousine drivers and go-go dancers because menial work in
America pays much more than white-collar jobs do in the oft-troubled Brazilian
economy.

''In Brazil you have quality of life, but here you have financial security,''
said Jamiel Ramalho de Almeida, a hairdresser who came from Belo Horizonte, the
capital of Minas Gerais state in southeastern Brazil, after graduating from the
College of Philosophy, Science and Language with a teaching degree. Mr. Almeida,
a neatly bearded man of flawless diction, owns the Ipanema Beauty Salon in
Astoria, Queens. ''When you get a taste of the good life, it's hard to go back
to what you had before.''

So many Brazilians have streamed here that they have transformed neighborhoods
like Astoria and Ironbound in Newark. Together those neighborhoods are home to
two dozen Brazilian restaurants, three nightclubs, several bikini-waxing parlors
and supermarkets that stock the smoked pork parts used for feijoada, a fatty
bean stew so heavy that it is typically followed by a nap.

In Ironbound, Brazilians have fit right in with their former colonizers, the
Portuguese, though Brazilians may soon outnumber them. There are also large
concentrations of Brazilians in Mineola, Port Chester and Mount Vernon in New
York, in Long Branch, N.J., and in Danbury, Conn.

At least since Carmen Miranda, with a fruit bowl for a hat, chica-chica-boomed
audiences out of some of their stodginess, Brazil has had a distinct mystique
among Americans.

Samba and bossa nova rhythms have shaped the music of Frank Sinatra and
Manhattan's dance clubs, and movies like ''Black Orpheus'' and ''Dona Flor and
Her Two Husbands'' have mixed magic, lust and a Brazilian love of revelry to
relax American restraints. Pele ignited a romance with soccer that, in its
children's version, has become a ritual of suburban autumn weekends.

But the mystique has always been felt at arm's length. Very few Brazilians
actually moved here. That has been changing as a result of Brazil's sometimes
inflationary economy and high unemployment, which has been hovering near 10
percent. Although the 2000 Census counted 13,000 New Yorkers of Brazilian
ancestry, with 3,372 of them in Astoria, the Brazilian Consulate thinks those
are gross undercounts.

Jose Alfredo Graca Lima, the consul general in New York, said a 2004 Census
estimate put the number in New York State at 42,000, in New Jersey at 51,000,
and in Connecticut at 18,000, but based on subscribers to Brazilian satellite
TV, he thinks those numbers should be more than doubled.

The immigrants include an uncommon proportion of well-educated people. The 2000
Census revealed that 30.8 percent of the city's Brazilians had degrees from
colleges or graduate schools, triple the number for some other nationalities
from Latin America like Mexicans, at 8.6 percent, or Ecuadorians, at 9.4
percent.

The educated expatriates include Marcia Duarte, 45, who has an exuberant laugh
and a degree in psychology. Like a lopsided proportion of Brazilians here, she
too hails from Minas Gerais, where she worked in human resources for a firm in
Belo Horizonte, a city of both soaring buildings and hovels unconnected to the
sewage grid. Here she has worked mostly as a baby sitter, with her first
employers assuming she came from a penniless background.

''The families teach us how to cut the ends of flowers to put them in a vase,
how to set the table, how to use the remote control,'' she said. ''We know that
already!''

But American pay coupled with a multiracial society similar to Brazil's have
been irresistible. She now works as a personal assistant to an executive and
makes $47,000 a year, five times what she estimates that she might have made
back home. ''To make money in Brazil is always a problem,'' she said. With her
salary, she can afford to take two trips home a year.

Still, Miss Duarte plans to return to Brazil in four years to live on her
national pension. According to Dr. Margolis, most Brazilians come to the United
States as sojourners, not settlers, for they seem to have a case of saudades,
the longing for home.

Eloah Teixeira, 60, who once managed a light-fixtures shop in Porto Alegre, the
capital of Rio Grande do Sul state in southern Brazil, has cleaned houses for
many of her 20 years in America. She lives in a ground-floor apartment in
Astoria and exults in being able to afford tickets for musicals like ''Chitty
Chitty Bang Bang,'' and sampling restaurants like Astoria's Malagueta. But
housecleaning, she adds, ''is a hard job, especially when you're 60.''

The owner of Malagueta, Herbet Gomes, has a two-year degree from a technical
college and in Brazil was a skilled mechanic who repaired mining machines. But
he earned just $700 a month in 1990 and dreaded losing a finger to a machine. He
took a chance on migrating and found work as a dishwasher in Manhattan.

''It was a shame for me considering what I did in Brazil,'' he said. ''All these
years I work to be a dishwasher? Wow, what have I done wrong? After two weeks, I
loosen up.''

He worked his way up to the position of cook at other restaurants, and, in 1999,
he married another Brazilian, Alda Teixeira, who worked as a housekeeper. Four
years ago, they opened Malagueta, a 14-table spot serving shrimp stew and pudim
de leite (flan). It was one of 13 restaurants in Queens to earn a mention in the
first Michelin restaurant guide for New York. One waitress, Monica Araujo, has a
bachelor's degree in international relations from Pontificia Universidade
Catolica in Rio de Janeiro.

The neighborhood surrounding Malagueta has overshadowed the area of 46th Street
between Fifth and Seventh Avenues in Manhattan as the city's center of Brazilian
life. The two Midtown blocks once had 100 Brazilian shops that sold electronic
goods that Brazilian tourists found to be cheaper here than they were at home.

When import taxes were reduced, the shops went out of business. Joao de Matos,
who organizes the annual Brazilian Day that draws hundreds of thousands, said
the street is down to three restaurants, his travel agency, a money remitter and
a shop that sells the string bikinis that Brazilians call fio dental (dental
floss).

Tatiana Pacheco, a 28-year-old college-educated counselor at Immigration
Advocacy Services in Astoria who came here to work as an au pair, said that
there are so many Brazilians in her neighborhood, ''I feel like I'm in a
different town instead of 10,000 miles away.''

She loves New York's ''big boiling machine.'' Still, she said, Americans do not
acknowledge how hard it is for immigrants to do well here. Her compatriots
struggle with crowded quarters shared among newcomers. Others like Ms. Araujo,
the Malagueta waitress, pine for the Brazilian zest for life.

''Here, you just think about your job, about making money,'' she said. ''You
don't think about life.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, partygoers on a recent night at Made in Brazil, a
nightclub in Astoria, Queens. At left, Ricardo Stefano, who shines shoes, has
lived in the United States for 15 years. In the New York area, Brazilians make
up one of the faster growing ethnic groups. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for
The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 A recent night at Brazilia Grill in the Ironbound section of Newark, home to a
growing number of Brazilians. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York
Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hyphenated-American Dream

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words


A truly great city inspires truly great dreams, even during the days when all
else seems lost.

There was no bleaker time in New York's history than 9/11. Yet it was then, with
the restaurant where he had worked for six years -- Windows on the World -- in
splinters and 73 of his fellow employees gone, that Silverio Moog's dream
started to take shape.

Now Mr. Moog, a spunky 41-year-old bartender from the Philippines, can hardly
believe what is about to happen. Next week he'll go to work in a brand-new
restaurant, and start a totally new life.

Restaurants open in New York all the time, but there has never been one like
this. Mr. Moog and 50 other waiters, busboys, bartenders and dishwashers, many
of them immigrants who worked at Windows, have formed a cooperative that will
run one of the city's first worker-owned restaurants.

Each one of them will claim a piece of the restaurant, called Colors, as their
own and share in any profits. Each one submitted a family recipe to help shape
the restaurant's eclectic menu -- which they describe as American fare with a
global twist. And each one has pinned lifelong dreams on an idea formed in the
crucible of disaster.

''This is one of my American dreams, to be an owner of a business being run by
immigrants who have a common goal,'' Mr. Moog said.

The possibilities and opportunities are wondrous, he said, and he is especially
proud to see his Philippine Lobster Lumpia -- lobster and minted sweet potato
spring rolls -- on the Colors menu.

But the reality of what he and the other workers are undertaking is daunting as
well.

''I guess I'm a little bit scared,'' he said.

And no wonder. With the failure rate of restaurants -- 60 percent after three
years according to a recent Ohio State University study -- and all the vagaries
of location, perception and the economy to deal with, even experienced,
well-financed restaurateurs can stumble.

While the co-op members have centuries of restaurant experience among them, they
have never owned a business. So they brought in a professional, Stefan
Mailvaganam, a Canadian citizen of Sri Lankan descent, to be general manager.

Mr. Mailvaganam realizes this is no ordinary job. ''What we are trying to do
here is start a restaurant with a conscience,'' he told two dozen co-op members
who gathered last week for a final training session. While he spoke, spacklers
and carpenters rushed to complete their work. The restaurant, in Lower Manhattan
a few doors down from the Public Theater, is scheduled to open for dinner on
Tuesday. ''It's challenging,'' Mr. Mailvaganam said over the din of steel and
wood, ''but we are committed to doing it.''

Rarely has one project had to carry so many expectations. Besides memorializing
the 73 who died in Windows, which was atop 1 World Trade Center, the co-op is
trying to do no less than change an industry.

Nobody in the restaurant, not even the dishwashers, will receive less than
$13.50 an hour, far higher than average restaurant wages. They will share tips
and be eligible to receive overtime and vacations. Eventually they will be
covered by health insurance and have pensions.

And, of course, each will share in the profits of the restaurant, if and when
there are profits.

''I am doing this for myself, for the workers who died and for all restaurant
workers in the city,'' said Awal Ahmed, 43, a waiter from Bangladesh who worked
at Windows for 17 years. ''It doesn't matter to me how much profit I get. It's
like having a piece of my own restaurant.''

The Sept. 11 attack forced many people to change their outlook on life.
Surviving workers from Windows realized that nothing more than a simple matter
of scheduling had determined who lived and who died.

Many of the surviving workers were left scrambling for work. A cooperative
restaurant was seen as a way of providing jobs as well as making a strong point
about workers' rights. Money had to be raised, but traditional lenders balked,
even after an Italian food cooperative put up $500,000 to support the project.

Saru Jayaraman, executive director of the Restaurant Opportunities Center, which
gets support from the restaurant workers union, said she thought workers would
be eligible to receive the 9/11 financing available for rebuilding Lower
Manhattan. But except for wage subsidies from Catholic Charities, they have not
received any of that financial help.

The project has a budget of $2.2 million, which the co-op finally raised from
more than 20 sources. Each worker contributed at least 100 hours of sweat
equity.

The decision to open an expensive, 120-seat tablecloth restaurant in a good
location, rather than a humbler place that would have cost much less, and opened
a lot sooner, turned into a heated dispute that led several co-op members to
leave.

Others left because the legal framework for the co-op was structured so that
members' early profits go to pay back the Italian co-op.

Some are still unhappy with how profits are to be shared. ''Our percentage keeps
going down and down,'' said Khondoker Delwar, 43, a waiter from Bangladesh. But
he's sticking with the project, he said, because it means his young daughter
will know he was part of something noble that happened in New York.

A successful co-operatively owned restaurant could become a powerful symbol.
Juan Galan, an organizer with Local 100 of Unite Here, which represents hotel
and restaurant workers, is trying to persuade co-op members to join the union
because it would show owners how treating workers well can actually help
increase profits.

And the co-op members are joining the New York State Restaurant Association, an
owners' lobby. At a recent co-op meeting, Rajani Adhikary, a policy organizer
for the Restaurant Opportunities Center, a labor advocacy group that has been
instrumental in forming the co-op, told members that by joining the association
they would be helping all restaurant workers. ''You're going to be like spies,''
Ms. Adhikary told them, ''and tell us what they do so we will know more about
them.''

E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the restaurant association, said
the co-op members were welcome. ''We're on their side,'' Mr. Hunt said. ''We
just don't see why they would feel they need to have spies amid our ranks.''

Most of the co-op members found other jobs while waiting for Colors to open.
Magdi Labib, an Egyptian immigrant and a natural leader of the co-op, is doing
well as a waiter at an expensive Midtown steakhouse. He said he would probably
earn less at Colors, but he will make the switch anyway. ''I know that 6 out of
10 restaurants fail, but it's not going to happen here,'' said Mr. Labib, 51.
''Everyone is going to know how to do their job in a proficient way, and that's
going to help.''

The workers had planned to bring memorabilia from Windows to the new restaurant
but abandoned that idea because they felt the constant reminder of what happened
there would be too depressing.

The new restaurant will feature 1930's decor because the workers feel that era
represented the height of labor power in New York. The name Colors reflects the
22 nations from which the members come, as will be shown on a giant mural in the
restaurant.

These veteran restaurant workers realize that the emotional link to 9/11 will
bring in diners, but it will become secondary to the things that really
determine a restaurant's success -- service and food.

''Yes we have 9/11 and people who believe in workers' rights might come at
first,'' said Fekkak Mamdouh, a former Windows waiter who now is assistant
director of the Restaurant Opportunities Center, ''but if you don't give good
service and good food, they won't come back.''

Mr. Mamdouh said that if Colors fails, it will be a failure for all immigrants
in the city. But if it succeeds, he said ''it will be a victory for all
restaurant workers in New York, all immigrants and all people who believe in
workers' rights.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the former employees of a World Trade Center restaurant
who have founded a new restaurant in Lower Manhattan. (Photo by Don Hogan
Charles/The New York Times)
 Julee Resendez, the beverage manager at the Colors restaurant, giving
colleagues some service tips. The restaurant is set to open next week. (Photo by
Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Control Takes One Leap Forward

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29


Antelope Wells, N.M., and Morses Line, Vt., are hardly the most populated spots
on the map. But with the installation of a new immigration control system at
those and 16 other border-crossing posts last week, the Department of Homeland
Security has reached a milestone.

Every port of entry into the United States -- land, sea or air -- is now
equipped with the system, US-Visit, which takes fingerprints and digital photos
of many entering foreigners to check them against criminal and terrorist watch
lists.

''We have enhanced security,'' said James A. Williams, director of US-Visit.

Even longstanding critics of the Homeland Security Department's often-belittled
efforts to protect the nation better say it deserves some credit for this
accomplishment.

Trying to develop a comprehensive entry and exit control system to fight illegal
immigration and discourage terrorism has in some ways ''been a mission
impossible,'' said Rey Koslowski, an associate professor of political science
who is director of the program on border control and homeland security at the
State University of New York at Albany. ''And they have been able to take the
first steps,'' he said.

But Professor Koslowski, among many others who have studied US-Visit, said the
task was still far from complete.

The nation's 115 airports with international traffic, as well as 15 sea and 154
land ports of entry, all now have US-Visit equipment, which is linked to a
national computer network that in a matter of seconds can check a visitor's
fingerprints against a database of known terrorists and criminals.

But most Canadians and Mexicans, in addition to American citizens and legal
permanent residents, are not subject to the checks. As a result, only about 42
percent of people arriving at the airports or seaports must submit to
fingerprinting. At land borders, the number is only about 2 percent.

Because of those and other limitations, some question whether the program, which
has cost more than $1 billion so far and could ultimately cost as much as $10
billion, is a worthwhile investment.

''US-Visit is an attractive showpiece, but it is not capable of delivering all
that it is being sold to deliver,'' said Kathleen Campbell Walker of El Paso,
vice president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Mr. Williams, the program's director, noted that by January 2008, Americans and
Canadians who enter the United States across a land border will need a passport
or other official travel document; they now need show only a driver's license.

Further, US-Visit could eventually be extended to include Mexicans and
Canadians, Mr. Williams said, although the Homeland Security Department would
have to figure out how to avoid major delays.

Janice L. Kephart, who was a counsel to the Sept. 11 commission, said that
simply having equipment at every border entry was a crucial first step, even if
only some travelers were subject to the checks.

''As long as the system is available everywhere, they can eventually broaden it
to include more folks who are seeking entry into the U.S.,'' Ms. Kephart said.
''This is shoring up one of the significant loopholes in our border system.''

Since its inception in January 2004, US-Visit -- United States Visitor and
Immigrant Status Indicator Technology -- has completed fingerprint checks and
recorded digital photos of 45 million visitors. For travelers required to have
visas before entering, the system checks to see if the visa holder is the same
person who applied for the visa overseas.

The fingerprint check at the borders has turned up just 970 hits of visa
violators or criminal suspects. The total rises to about 15,000 with inclusion
of the cases identified overseas at the time of an application for the visa, a
process that is considered an extension of US-Visit because it too requires
fingerprints and a digital photo.

Most such instances are relatively modest: those of people who have previously
been denied visas or committed some kind of immigration violation. But the
system has also identified some criminals, including drug smugglers, and, in
Jordan, one person who had been detained by the United States military in Iraq
on terrorism-related charges.

Still, critics say any would-be terrorist who has no prior record or encounter
with law enforcement officials could most likely escape suspicion. That could be
especially easy for visitors from one of the 27 countries whose people are not
required to obtain visas or undergo background checks before they arrive.

''US-Visit is not going to screen out people with terrorist intentions from
Western Europe who aren't on our radar screen,'' said Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based research
group that supports greater immigration controls.

Another big weakness so far is that most of the installed equipment monitors
only entry into the United States, not the exit. The Homeland Security
Department has found that perhaps a third of the estimated seven million illegal
immigrants who were in the United States as of 2000 had entered the county
legally but then overstayed their visas. That was the case with at least 3 of
the 19 hijackers on Sept. 11, 2001.

At 13 airports and 2 seaports, US-Visit has set up kiosks that record exits of
foreigners. The program is also experimenting with a system that uses radio
signals to monitor entries and exits at five land borders.

But Mr. Williams said it would be years before there was a comprehensive exit
control system, particularly at the land borders.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The border crossing at Morses Line, Vt., one of 18 that got
sophisticated immigration control equipment last week, allowing a milestone.
(Photo by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 3, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Albany: Concern Over Adults' Reading Skills

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Harney

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 61 words


The state plans to enhance its education programs for adults and immigrants this
year, after a national survey found that many adults in New York fell below the
standard of basic literacy. ''It's quite serious,'' said the state education
commissioner, Richard P. Mills. ''New Yorkers in the 29-to-35-year-old age group
are significantly below their national peers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Failing Our Students

BYLINE: By Evangeline Harris Stefanakis.

Evangeline Harris Stefanakis is an associate research scholar and faculty member
in international and transcultural studies at Columbia's Teachers College.

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 834 words


BEGINNING this week, New York City's fourth graders will take the state's
standardized tests in reading and writing. Many people are looking forward to a
repeat of last year when the city celebrated a nearly 10 percent increase in
fourth-grade reading scores. But not everyone is sharing in the anticipation.

Luis Castro, a 12-year-old from the Dominican Republic, is worried that he will
not pass the test and thus be forced to repeat the fourth grade, again. Like so
many over-age immigrant students at the school he attends on the Lower East
Side, Luis is as tall as most seventh graders, has an incipient mustache and is
tired of being teased. Worse, he's afraid of disappointing his parents, who,
like so many other immigrants, have pinned their hopes on their children.

New York City schools base their decision on whether to promote students
entirely on results from the state achievement exams. But these tests, which are
written for native English speakers, discriminate against those who are still
learning the language.

Luis is a perfect case in point. His schoolwork shows that he has made
significant progress since September and that he has met state standards in the
work he has completed. But when Luis takes state tests, he is unable to quickly
comprehend what he reads in English, and that hurts his performance. Even by
conservative estimates, immigrant children like Luis account for close to half
the student population in public schools across New York State.

Doing well isn't simply a matter of knowing English. Standardized tests measure
children's knowledge of ''cognitive academic language,'' or the language of a
highly literate population. Students in middle-class areas like the Upper East
Side, the Upper West Side, Park Slope and Riverdale are well versed in this
language.

But students in Washington Heights, Corona, East Brooklyn and other low-income,
immigrant communities do not read, write or speak this language fluently. In
most cases, neither their parents nor other adults they come in contact with
speak this language to them, and yet, they are required to learn it to pass
state tests and be promoted. Their test scores reflect the fact that often they
must literally translate as they work, either from their native language to
English, or from the version of English they speak in their minority community
to cognitive academic English.

The solution to this problem, already used by many schools and districts in
other parts of the country, is to use a student's body of work, or portfolio, as
an additional means of assessment. Where standardized tests alone reveal only
the language differences of students, a growing body of research shows that a
combination of formal tests and informal assessments can indicate their
progress. Portfolios, in particular, capture both the process and products of
students' learning and reflect their multiple languages, multiple intelligences
and multiple abilities.

Perhaps even more important, an approach that includes portfolios would not only
improve assessments of immigrant students, but would also help ensure that they
receive a good education. Portfolios reveal what is being taught and help to
ensure that teachers regularly observe and document the learning of each
student.

Skeptics may ask: Couldn't schools, under pressure to show progress, simply
rubber-stamp portfolios regardless of quality? No, because, just as with
statewide tests, there are clear, codified standards for judging portfolios. In
math, for example, young children must demonstrate counting, numeration and
data-analysis skills.

But couldn't teachers or parents polish up a child's portfolio to make it look
more impressive than it really is? That's probably true, just as it's true for
any homework assignment, but the student would still be required to take
standardized tests, which would reveal any discrepancies.

Georgia, Hawaii, Tennessee and Virginia have been among the leaders in adopting
standards-based testing programs using portfolios and alternative assessments
for bilingual students and those with limited English proficiency. Even though
the state achievement tests are scheduled for this week, it's not too late for
New York City schools to follow the lead of these states. In making their
promotion decisions, individual schools can elect to use portfolios and other
assessments to determine the fate of any child.

Researchers and the courts have repeatedly found that exclusively using any
single assessment tool to determine the promotion or graduation of bilingual
students is discriminatory. Until New York State creates a collection of formal
tests and informal assessments that are truly comprehensive, ZIP codes, family
income and socioeconomic status will continue to be strong indicators of
graduation and promotion rates. New York should stop sorting students along
these lines and create a comprehensive system that measures and celebrates the
diversity of what all students know and can do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Expectations Were High, but So Were the Hurdles

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Vote in Mexico? Few Expatriates
Apply; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words


Two months ago, thousands of voter application forms from Mexico were delivered
to a shabby former convent in Manhattan, a gathering place for Mexican New
Yorkers like Fernando Sauce, a pizza maker; Enrique Lopez, a construction
worker; and Salvador Mendoz, a boxing trainer.

The forms were supposed to represent a historic opportunity: For the first time
this year, millions of Mexicans living abroad have a chance to vote by absentee
ballot in the presidential election back home. In New York, where immigrants
from the Dominican Republic seized a similar opportunity in 2004 and helped
unseat the incumbent, demand for the forms by Mexican newcomers was expected to
be especially high.

But last week, with a Jan. 15 deadline for applications looming, most of the
forms were still stacked unused in the former convent on West 14th Street, the
headquarters of Asociacion Tepeyac de New York, an immigrant-rights organization
that serves one of the fastest-growing Mexican communities in the United States.
Brother Joel Magallan, the director, counted only a few dozen completed
applications.

Nationwide, the story was the same. As of Monday, just 13,573 Mexican
expatriates had applied, out of what was once estimated as 4 million eligible to
vote in the July election; only 7,795 had been approved. Even with last-minute
publicity, the results promised embarrassment for everyone concerned, including
the Mexican election institute, which devoted $12 million to absentee voting,
and the Mexican-American activists who spent years lobbying for the ballot on
behalf of an estimated 11 million expatriates.

''This is a mess,'' Brother Magallan said. ''In Mexico most people say, 'Why are
we spending a lot of money on the election in the United States if they don't
care?' '' Like many who fought for the vote, he contends that the absentee
voting system arranged by Mexican officials was set up to fail. Problems that
many analysts cite include too little time and information, a cumbersome
registration process that excludes most would-be voters or requires them to
travel to Mexico to get a voting ID, and rules against campaigning in the United
States.

Others say expectations were overblown last summer when Mexican legislators gave
in to political pressure from migrants, who send home $16 billion a year.
Instituto Federal Electoral, Mexico's election institute, suddenly had to run a
fraud-free election not just in Mexico but also in the United States.

''They were reluctant, and it shows,'' said Roberto Suro, executive director of
the Pew Hispanic Center, which conducted research suggesting that many Mexicans
in the United States would vote if allowed. ''There is going to be a huge debate
over whether the result meant that the people here just didn't care about
politics in Mexico or if it was the process.''

Interviews with Mexican New Yorkers at Tepeyac's computer classes and at the
Mexican consulate support both views. ''I would like to try to get a vote, but I
don't have an ID,'' said Mr. Sauce, the pizza maker, who came to the United
States in 1993, when he was 17. ''I tried to get it at the consulate, but they
give me too many excuses.''

He was referring to a Mexican voter credential that under current law can be
issued only in the voter's hometown. A photocopy of the card must be included in
the application for an absentee ballot, along with proof of address in the
United States, like an electric bill. Brother Magallan said that many Mexicans
in the United States illegally paid bills under a false name or lived in
subdivided dwellings with no record of their presence.

Though the election is not until July, applications for an absentee ballot must
be sent individually before Jan. 15 by certified mail, costing about $8. Brother
Magallan said on television in mid-December that applications left at Tepeyac
would be hand-delivered to Mexican authorities under a special dispensation.

But Mr. Lopez, the construction worker, was one of many would-be voters who
mistakenly sent in his application by regular mail instead. ''I'm going to do it
over,'' vowed Mr. Lopez, 23, who left Mexico for the Bronx at 18 and regularly
sends money to his parents and brothers in Puebla. ''Our vote could make the
difference in Mexico. There's a lot of exploitation of the minorities. The
economy is not growing.''

Besides Mr. Lopez, the only other computer student with the necessary voting
card was Mr. Mendoz, the boxing trainer, who said he had no desire to register.
After almost two years in the United States, he said, he knew too little about
the issues. ''I don't suffer the same as people over there,'' he said.

The lackluster participation will likely deflate the image and clout of
Mexican-American organizations, said Alejandro Poire, a visiting professor of
Latin American studies at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.

''The idea that these groups were very active and organized and really
representing a massive demand was clearly overstated,'' said Professor Poire, a
former official of Mexico's election institute. But he added, ''I think we would
have a different picture if candidates were holding rallies and registration
drives in the United States.''

The contrast with the Dominican election in May 2004 supports his view.
Dominican political parties campaigned hard in New York, where 24,342 Dominican
New Yorkers registered out of about half a million who were eligible, according
to Jose Fernandez, president of the board of elections for the Dominican
Republic in New York. More than 68 percent of those registered turned out to
vote at public schools and the consulate. ''Now we have hundreds of people
calling every day to come and register,'' Mr. Fernandez said.

Pilar Alvarez, a spokeswoman for the election institute, said the comparison was
unfair, since Dominicans are concentrated in New York, while a much larger
Mexican population is spread across the nation. ''Many criticisms have been
issued and many are well founded, but we have to see the context,'' she said.
That thousands registered in 90 days is ''not insignificant,'' she added.

Like the Pew Hispanic Center, the election institute had theorized that in the
newest areas of Mexican settlement, like New York and North Carolina, more
Mexicans were likely to have valid voter ID cards. It calculated that up to 4.2
million expatriates could have cards, in addition to 69 million voters in
Mexico.

But it turns out that many of the migrants' cards have been lost or were
destroyed at the border, Ms. Alvarez said. And projections by expatriate
organizations that up to 10 percent, or 400,000 people, might register were ill
founded because studies show the highest absentee participation rate anywhere is
5 percent.

Lack of official enthusiasm also shaped the results, Mr. Suro said: ''There was
potentially a large number of voters in what has all the potential to be a close
election, and they have no way of knowing what their political orientation would
be.''

For Mexico's election institute, which banned campaigning in the United States
because it could not enforce spending limits there, the stakes are also high.
The coming election is seen as a major test of its achievement in running the
landmark election of 2000, in which Vincente Fox became the first opposition
party candidate to win the presidency in 71 years and the vote count was
accepted as honest.

President Fox's handpicked successor was trounced in the primary. The next
president will be chosen from among the left-wing former mayor of Mexico City,
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador; a conservative former energy minister, Felipe
Calderon; and Roberto Madrazo, a political boss in the P.R.I. machine, which
ruled Mexico for seven decades.

But at the Mexican consulate in New York last week, the race seemed far away.
Jaime Diaz, 39, a Brooklyn garment worker with five children, said he had no
interest in voting in Mexico after 16 years in the United States. On the other
hand, Sixto Carrillos, 60, a maintenance worker who has also lived in New York
for 16 years, had made a special trip seeking an absentee ballot but was stopped
outside the consulate door by a security guard who told him there were none.

Only when Mr. Carrillos persisted did the guard, glancing at the watching
reporter, reach for one of the application forms on display inside and hand it
to him.

''I'm a Mexican citizen,'' Mr. Carrillos said, visibly frustrated. ''When I come
here, nobody knows anything. It's confusing. I'm still unsure what's the right
thing to do.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Karla Quinonez Ruggiero putting up a poster in Sunset Park,
Brooklyn, as part of a last-minute registration drive. (Photo by Ruby
Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Brother Joel Magallan, with the handful of completed applications collected by
his immigrant-rights group. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Money Does Not Buy A Green Card But the Lure Remains

BYLINE: By GREG CLARKIN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 509 words


THE scams can be as simple as an advertisement in a Spanish newspaper or as
elaborate as a storefront offering legal services. They can be fueled by word of
mouth or by the Internet. Simple or complex, the scams offer the same thing to
illegal immigrants: hope of a green card or citizenship in the United States.

And with a growing immigrant population in some Connecticut cities, the number
of scams is also growing. The police in Hamden this month arrested a New York
woman who they said stole $150,000 from immigrants by posing as an immigration
official and promising to speed the legalization process. The woman, Maria
Agosto, was charged with first-degree larceny and criminal impersonation. She is
scheduled to appear in Superior Court in Meriden on Wednesday.

Richard Blumenthal, the Connecticut attorney general, said his office is
investigating a number of similar activities around the state.

''We've seen a variety of scams that exploit immigrants and individuals that
have English as a second language, or whose knowledge of English is limited,''
Mr. Blumenthal said. ''The problem seems to be worsening.''

''Many of these people are reluctant to report the scams because they are afraid
of deportation,'' he said.

Advocates for immigrants said the legalization process takes years and the rules
and requirements change frequently, leaving many desperate to take shortcuts no
matter what the cost.

''There is no easy way to get a green card,'' said Myra Oliver, executive
director of the International Institute, a social services agency in Bridgeport
that offers immigration services and counseling. ''There is a process in
place.''

Mrs. Oliver said that any offer of a legal immigration document is probably a
scam. ''You can't buy Social Security cards,'' she said. ''Anybody who
guarantees you anything, that should be a trigger.''

In recent months, Mrs. Oliver said she's heard of immigrants being offered
papers guaranteeing amnesty.

''There is no amnesty,'' she said.

Other scams exploit different interpretations of the role of a notary public.

''If you want to open up a scam, get yourself a notary license,'' said Philip
Berns, a Stamford lawyer who works with immigrants.

Mr. Berns said in some countries a notary is seen as a powerful lawyer who can
navigate the legal system. With that in mind, scam artists will take out
newspaper ads highlighting a notary service, or in more elaborate cases set up
shop in a storefront offering legal services.

He said the process to crack down on those operations can take months or longer.
Someone needs to alert the authorities, and then each case is investigated.

''Of the really bad actors, you only catch one out every five,'' Mr. Bern said.

In Danbury, where a growing immigrant population has sparked protests, immigrant
advocates said they are on the lookout for scams.

''They are vulnerable and when somebody needs something, unfortunately people
will take advantage of them,'' said Wilson Hernandez, a founder of the Danbury
Area Coalition for Rights of Immigrants.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Myra Oliver, executive director of a Bridgeport social services
agency, says offers of immigration papers are probably scams. (Photo by Thomas
McDonald for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 16, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

High-Tech Now, but Still Serving Immigrants

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; New Bronx Library Meets Old
Need; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words


The building may now be wireless and digitally zippered. But immigrants will be
knocking at the door, just as they have for eight decades.

When it opens to the public tomorrow, the $50 million new Bronx Library Center
at 310 East Kingsbridge Road will be a library on steroids. It will triple the
size, and double the collection, of the old Fordham Library Center. That was the
borough's former flagship, beloved through the generations from its opening in
1923 to its closing on Nov. 27.

Now there will be 127 desktop computers with Internet access, and patrons will
be able to check out 30 laptops to use wirelessly within the building on any of
its five floors. Programmable flat-screen displays and digital ''zipper'' signs
will cue patrons to activities and events.

But Susan Kent, director of the New York Public Library's branch libraries, said
the new library would still ''be a gateway to a new generation of immigrants.''
''This library,'' she said, ''has always played a role in the acculturation of
newcomers.''

These days, the nationalities have changed. While the percentage of foreign-born
residents in the borough is comparable to what it was around the time the
Fordham Library opened (36.4 percent in 1920; 29.3 percent in 2000), many arrive
from the Caribbean or Latin America, not from over the Atlantic, according to an
analysis of Census data by Susan Weber-Stoger, a researcher at Queens College.

In 1920 foreign-born residents came primarily from Russia, Italy, Austria,
Germany, Ireland and Hungary. In 2000 they came primarily from the Dominican
Republic, Jamaica, Mexico, Ecuador, Guyana and Honduras. The principal mother
tongue was Yiddish among foreign-born residents older than 10 in 1920; in 2000
it was Spanish.

The new library will also have to accommodate many other users; the population
of the Bronx nearly doubled from 1920 to 2000, from 744,302 to 1,335,474.

The old library used to be print-based; ''now there are many media,'' Ms. Kent
said. ''And although visitors will be entering a building with walls, like the
old library, the new one will be a building without walls, with access to the
world, thanks to technology and the Internet.''

The worn Fordham library, at 2556 Bainbridge Avenue, is but 120 paces on Poe
Alley down the hill from the new building, and its powerful influence is still a
presence in many lives.

''I saw the Oxford English Dictionary there for the first time,'' said Harold
Bloom, 75, the influential literary scholar and Sterling professor of the
humanities at Yale.

That was in the 1940's, when he lived at 170th Street and the Grand Concourse,
and frequently made ''the hefty walk,'' Dr. Bloom said, to the Fordham library.
''I was always a little awed to be there.''

His immigrant parents spoke only Yiddish.

''I remember being so touched by the enormous availability of large and complex
dictionaries and concordances. I remember ransacking them,'' he said -- speaking
figuratively, of course.

The comedian Robert Klein, who grew up on Decatur Avenue near Gun Hill Road in
the 1940's and 1950's, wrote about the Fordham library in his memoir, ''The
Amorous Busboy of Decatur Avenue'' (Simon & Schuster, 2005). The library, he
said, ''gave me the habit of reading and the stimulation of the imagination.''

He added: ''Who owned a book? The very idea was almost absurd in our family,
where we had to make a buck go a long way.'' Even when Mr. Klein moved to
Manhattan in his early 20's, ''I still kept going up to the Fordham library to
borrow from their wonderful selection of baroque music.''

Ms. Kent, who also was born in the Bronx, said simply that ''this building
changed my life,'' adding, ''I became a librarian.'' She remembered as a child
coming to the library every week and walking up its chipped stair treads. ''The
librarians would put books aside for me,'' she said.

Memories of the library are still vivid for Eileen Maxwell, 72, who grew up on
Creston Avenue near East 183d Street and now lives in Jenkintown, Pa. ''I went
to the Fordham Library at least every week, and took out a batch of books.''

She became the first in her family to go to college, earned a doctorate at
Fordham University a few blocks away, became an organizational psychologist, and
married a clinical psychologist she met at Fordham. ''The library,'' she said,
''opened my eyes to a new world.''

Despite its obsolescence, the old building was opening eyes right up to the end,
before the shuttering on Thanksgiving weekend. Joe Hernandez, 16, an 11th grader
at Walton High School, had found a table in the corner of the basement reference
room to study for a chemistry test with a 16-year-old classmate, Vanessa
Barrientos.

''It's a good place to study because it's quiet,'' said Mr. Hernandez, who hopes
to be an engineer someday.

Nearby, Anthony Pagan, a 26-year-old National Guardsman recently returned from
Hurricane Katrina duty, was on one of the 42 personal computers.

''This old building, I love it here,'' he said. ''It's a great idea to have a
new building,'' he added, ''but I hope they'll offer the same services.''

Not to worry. The new library, which will be open seven days a week, will have
200,000 books, periodicals and other media compared with 125,000 in the old one.

The building also will house a Latin and Puerto Rican Cultural Collection with
20,000 volumes and a two-classroom technology training center.

The library will also serve as a student and small-business advisory center, a
literacy training hub, a meeting place, a performance space and a central
library institution for the borough, said Daniel Heuberger, a principal with
Dattner Architects, the lead designer of the building.

The 78,000-square-foot building's distinctive, upward-trending aluminum-clad cap
has been likened to the Nike swoosh, but its function is to add more library
space to offset restrictions caused by height and setback requirements of the
building's trapezoidal real-estate parcel, once the site of a parking lot and a
Con Edison administrative building.

''It is the symbolic visual point of the library,'' Mr. Heuberger said, ''and we
hope it will become an icon for the new Bronx.''

It is a ''green'' building, deploying energy-efficient sun-reflecting exterior
surfaces of glass and steel, photo sensors to lower interior lighting in bright
sun and motion sensors to turn off unneeded lights. Its insulated glass curtain
wall uses natural light to help heat the building, and reveals a Bronx panorama:
the New York Botanical Garden, the spires of Fordham University, the towers of
the Whitestone Bridge, and even the Empire State Building on clear days.

''We hope the wide windows and the striking views symbolize the opening to the
community that we're all about,'' said Michael Alvarez, chief of the new and old
libraries.

Given the Barnes & Noble model, the library will have plenty of comfortable
chairs, mostly near the building's glass curtain wall. The central
concourse-level reception area can be used as a gallery and is connected to a
150-seat auditorium with projection booth and theatrical-production facilities.

The second-floor areas for children offer an enclosed toddler space and a
story-hour room with a puppet theater.

The third floor, with its adult circulating collections, also has its own
ornament: a south-facing, sunlit terrace that can be an outdoor reading room and
exterior event space.

It's a far cry from the quaint brick, three-story, 25,500-square-foot Fordham
Road Library, with its fanlight windows and 20-foot ceilings, and its patchwork
floors of institutional green linoleum.

Mr. Alvarez said the old library had 321,436 visitors in 2005, and he hopes for
at least three times that -- a million patrons -- over the next year.

Although there are those who say that in the age of the Internet, libraries are
obsolete, ''people are using our libraries more than ever,'' Ms. Kent said.

The number of those who checked out books, periodicals and other New York Public
Library materials for the fiscal year ending June 30 was 15,546,553 -- an
increase of 6 percent over the previous year. The 34 branches in the Bronx had
three million visitors last year, of which 700,000 were cardholders.

''The Bronx has a population of 1.5 million,'' said Robert Bellinger, associate
director of Bronx library branches, ''and we won't rest until everyone has our
card.''

Residents can sign up for one on Saturday and Sunday when the new library will
have a two-day festival celebrating the opening with readings, tours and
entertainment.

And what of the old Fordham library? Dr. Kent said that it is likely to be
transformed into a specialized high school by the city's Department of
Education, adding: ''It will continue to serve the Bronx.''


  The Bronx in 1920 -- 744,302
The Bronx in 2000 -- 1,335,474

RACE
The Bronx in 1920
BLACK -- 0.4%
OTHER -- 0.1%
WHITE -- 99.4%

The Bronx in 2000
BLACK -- 35.4
OTHER -- 34.5
WHITE -- 30.1%

FOREIGN BORN
The Bronx in 1920 -- 36%
The Bronx in 2000 -- 29%

TOP COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN

The Bronx in 1920
U.S.S.R./Russia -- 11%
Italy -- 5
Austria -- 3

The Bronx in 2000
Dominican Rep. -- 10%

Jamaica -- 4
Mexico -- 2

SPEAKS NO ENGLISH
(age 10 and older, foreign born)

The Bronx in 1920 -- 7%
The Bronx in 2000 -- 10%

TOP FOREIGN LANGUAGE*

The Bronx in 1920
Yiddish -- 19%

The Bronx in 2000
Spanish -- 49%

HOMEOWNERS

The Bronx in 1920 -- 10%
The Bronx in 2000 -- 21%

*1920: Mother tongue, age 10 and older, foreign born; 2000: Language other than
English spoken at home, age 10 and older, foreign born.

(Source by U.S. Census data analyzed by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College
Sociology Department)(pg. B4)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from upper left
the auditorium at the Bronx Library Center, which will open tomorrow
Sharaia Carter with bar codes for books
the reference area on the fourth floor
an exterior view
and a reference room. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg.
B1)
 The Fordham library, which closed on Nov. 27, may be turned into a specialized
high school by the city's Department of Education. (Photo by Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart: ''A Changed Bronx''POPULATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Kills 2 Boys, Kidnaps Mother and Flees, Officials Say

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; John Holl contributed reporting for this article
from Ocean County, N.J.

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: TOMS RIVER, N.J., Jan. 20


A transient worker who was staying with a New Jersey family bludgeoned their two
sons to death with a hammer, kidnapped the mother at knifepoint, and was
apprehended hours later, cold, wet and confused after hiding in a drainpipe, the
authorities said on Friday.

The police said the murder suspect, Richard Toledo, an illegal immigrant from
Mexico, turned himself in early Friday after the woman had managed to escape and
he had been cornered in marshy woods by scores of officers, barking bloodhounds
and a police helicopter.

Prosecutors were at a loss for a motive, saying they had no idea why Mr. Toledo,
24, killed the boys, Karlo Gonzalez, 14, and his little brother Zabdiel
Gonzalez, 7.

''All we know is that he brutally beat to death two young boys,'' said Thomas F.
Kelaher, the prosecutor for Ocean County.

The police said that Mr. Toledo had been living with the Gonzalez family for
about a year in their split-level home in the Ocean Acres subdivision of
Stafford Township. He was a busboy at a country club, clearing dishes, pouring
glasses of water and setting out plates of warm bread.

The Gonzalezes were trying to help get him on his feet. The police said that Mr.
Toledo considered himself part of the family and even occasionally used Gonzalez
as his last name. ''Out of the kindness of their heart, they took him in,'' Mr.
Kelaher said.

Mr. Toledo apparently once worked with Wanda Gonzalez, the mother of the two
boys, cleaning offices. The police described him as a worker who drifted from
menial job to menial job.

Few of the Gonzalez family's neighbors had ever heard of him, and on Friday
people stood blank-faced in their doorways, staring at the yellow tape stretched
across the same driveway where the two boys used to shoot hoops. ''This is a
nightmare,'' said Dee Nielson, a neighbor.

About 7 p.m. Thursday, some time after the boys were killed, Mr. Toledo pulled a
butcher knife on Ms. Gonzalez, 38, wrapped her hands with wire and forced her
out of her house and into her minivan, the police said. He drove her to an
A.T.M. a few miles away and made her withdraw $500.

Then he sped up the Garden State Parkway, heading to New York City, the police
said. But he was running out of gas and pulled into a Mobil station in Monmouth
County. Josh Hall was pumping gas when Ms. Gonzalez burst out of the minivan,
screaming: ''He's got a knife! He's got my kids!''

Ms. Gonzalez ran toward the garage. Mr. Toledo chased her for a few steps before
bolting into the woods.

Ms. Gonzalez collapsed inside the garage, hysterical and sobbing, telling Mr.
Hall and the other attendants that her sons were missing.

At this point, she did not know they had been killed, the police said.

The attendants called 911, and Ms. Gonzalez called her husband, Carlos.

Neighbors described Mr. Gonzalez as a hard worker and an eager landscaper who
was often seen working on his lawn. The police said that the couple had a
history of domestic violence, had separated but were trying to get back
together. The police also said Mr. Toledo may have been baby-sitting the two
boys when they were killed.

Mr. Gonzalez rushed home. As soon as he stepped into a bedroom on the first
floor, he discovered the bodies of his sons, which were so bloody the police
initially thought the boys had been stabbed to death. Mr. Gonzalez had a panic
attack and was taken to a nearby hospital. The police said the boys were the
couple's only children.

At the same time, a manhunt was unfolding, with dozens of officers racing to the
Mobil station and the thick woods around it, searching for Mr. Toledo.

At 3:30 a.m., the break came. Mr. Toledo called 911 on a cellphone and told the
operator that he was the man the police were looking for. ''He was wet, he was
cold, and he just wanted someone to tell him what to do,'' said Capt. Al Della
Fave of the New Jersey State Police.

At 4:30 a.m., after lengthy conversations with a Spanish-speaking state trooper,
Mr. Toledo emerged from the woods, shivering from his hours in the drainpipe.

Ocean County authorities charged Mr. Toledo with two counts of murder as well as
kidnapping and robbery. Bail was set at $2 million.

On Friday afternoon, Mr. Toledo appeared in State Superior Court in Toms River.
He is about 5-foot-5 and weighs 110 pounds, and the police said he was smaller
than the older son.

A relative of the boys shouted at Mr. Toledo to look him in the eyes. Mr. Toledo
only looked down, at his feet.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Toledo going into court in Toms River, N.J., yesterday.
At 3:30 a.m. on Friday, Mr. Toledo called 911 and told the operator that the
police were looking for him. (Photo by Jose F. Moreno/Associated Press)(pg. B1)
Stafford Township, N.J., police officers standing watch at the house where Karlo
and Zabdiel Gonzalez, brothers, 14 and 7 years old, were killed by a man who had
lived with the family there, officials said. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New
York Times)
 Karlo Gonzalez (Photo by Asbury Park Press)(pg. B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Broad Survey of Day Laborers Finds High Level of Injuries and Pay Violations

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1162 words


The first nationwide study on day laborers has found that such workers are a
nationwide phenomenon, with 117,600 people gathering at more than 500 hiring
sites to look for work on a typical day.

The survey found that three-fourths of day laborers were illegal immigrants and
that more than half said employers had cheated them on wages in the previous two
months.

The study found that 49 percent of day laborers were employed by homeowners and
43 percent by construction contractors. They were found to be employed most
frequently as construction laborers, landscapers, painters, roofers and drywall
installers.

The study, based on interviews with 2,660 workers at 264 hiring sites in 20
states and the District of Columbia, found that day laborers earned a median of
$10 an hour and $700 month. The study said that only a small number earned more
than $15,000 a year.

The professors who conducted the study said the most surprising finding was the
pervasiveness of wage violations and dangerous conditions that day laborers
faced.

''We were disturbed by the incredibly high incidence of wage violations,'' said
one of the study's authors, Nik Theodore of the University of Illinois at
Chicago. ''We also found a very high level of injuries.''

Forty-nine percent of those interviewed said that in the previous two months an
employer had not paid them for one or more days' work. Forty-four percent said
some employers did not give them any breaks during the workday, while 28 percent
said employers had insulted them.

Another of the study's authors, Abel Valenzuela Jr. of the University of
California, Los Angeles, said: ''This is a labor market that thrives on cheap
wages and the fact that most of these workers are undocumented. They're in a
situation where they're extremely vulnerable, and employers know that and take
advantage of them.''

In some communities, tensions have soared over day labor sites, with complaints
that the workers interrupt traffic, block sidewalks, trespass on store property
and litter. In addition, the laborers have become the target of groups opposed
to illegal immigrants.

Nine percent of day laborers reported having been arrested while waiting for
work, while 11 percent reported receiving police citations and 37 percent
reported being chased away. Nineteen percent said merchants had insulted them,
and 15 percent said merchants had not let them use their bathrooms or make
purchases.

The survey found that 59 percent of day laborers were from Mexico and 28 percent
from Central America, while 7 percent were born in the United States. Sixty
percent of the immigrant workers said that day labor was their first occupation
in the United States.

While waiting for work Friday morning near a Home Depot in the Pico Union
section of Los Angeles, Cesar Ramirez, a 46-year-old immigrant from Mexico, said
he had been hired only one day in the previous week.

He said he makes $15 an hour when he works on plumbing or electrical jobs, but
$8 or $10 an hour when hired to do landscaping. Many weeks, he said, he does not
earn enough to support his six children.

''I come here every morning and sometimes I leave at 3 p.m. without work,'' said
Mr. Ramirez, who said he had worked as a day laborer since arriving from Oaxaca,
Mexico, four years ago. ''I keep doing it because I can't find a permanent job.
I'd like to find something better.''

He said a contractor had recently failed to pay more than $500 due him after he
had spent five days doing electrical and plumbing work. Mr. Ramirez asked a
workers' rights group to help him get paid, but he was unsuccessful because he
did not have the contractor's name, telephone number or address.

''Sometimes they take advantage,'' Mr. Ramirez said.

Nearly three-fourths of the day laborers surveyed said they gathered at day
labor sites five or more days a week, with the average laborer finding work
three to three-and-a-half days a week. In good months, day laborers earn $1,400,
the report found, and in bad months, especially winter months, $500.

The study said that the number of day laborers had soared because of the surge
of immigrants, the boom in homebuilding and renovation, the construction
industry's growing use of temporary workers, and the volatility of the job
market.

''For many workers in cities with declining employment prospects, day labor
provides a chance to regain a foothold in the urban economy,'' the study said.
''For others, it is a first job in the United States and an opportunity to
acquire work experience, skills and employer contacts. For still others, it
represents an opportunity to earn an income when temporarily laid off from a job
elsewhere in the economy.''

The study found that 44 percent of those surveyed had been day laborers for less
than a year, while 30 percent had done that work for one to three years,
suggesting that many moved to jobs in other sectors of the economy. Twenty-six
percent said they were day laborers for more than three years.

The report said that 36 percent were married, while 7 percent were with living
with a parent. Two-thirds said they had children.

The study found that 73 percent said they were placed in hazardous working
conditions, like digging ditches, working with chemicals, or on roofs or
scaffolding. The report said that employers often put day laborers into
dangerous jobs that regular workers were reluctant to do -- often with minimal
training and safety equipment.

One-fifth said that in the past year they had suffered injuries requiring
medical attention, and 60 percent of that group said their injuries caused them
to miss more than a week of work.

''Day laborers continue to endure unsafe working conditions, mainly because they
fear that if they speak up, complain, or otherwise challenge these conditions,
they will either be fired or not paid for their work,'' the report said.

Among day laborers injured on the job during the previous year, 54 percent said
they had not received the medical care they needed, mostly because they could
not afford health care or the employer refused to cover them under the company's
workers' compensation insurance.

The biggest hope for day laborers, the study said, are the 63 day labor centers
that operate as hiring halls where workers and employers arrange to meet. These
centers, usually created in partnerships with local government or community
organizations, often require workers and employers to register, helping to
reduce abuses. The centers provide shelter, bathrooms and water -- sometimes
even English lessons -- while workers wait. Many set a minimum wage, often $10
an hour, that employers must pay the laborers.

''The first thing to do to improve things for day laborers is to have more of
these centers,'' said Pablo Alvarado, national coordinator of the National Day
Laborer Organizing Network, an advocacy group for such workers. ''The second
thing is to have the government enforce the labor laws more consistently.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cesar Ramirez, right, says he has worked as a day laborer since
arriving in Los Angeles from Oaxaca, Mexico, four years ago.
 Victor Manuel, center, tried to flag down a potential employer on Friday while
waiting with other day laborers at a Home Depot in Los Angeles. (Photographs by
Jamie Rector for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 23, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refining The Tests That Confer Citizenship

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words


Where does Father Christmas come from? How old do you have to be to buy a
lottery ticket? If your adult son declares he's a homosexual, what do you do? If
a film or a book insults your religious feelings, what is your reaction? Why are
aboriginal peoples seeking self-government? Who has the power to declare war?

Answering such questions appropriately may not define you as a citizen of the
world, even in this era of supposed globalization, but it would help get you
citizenship in Britain (the first two questions), Germany (the second two),
Canada (the next) or the United States (the last). Perhaps never before in human
history has so much energy been devoted to trying to establish citizenship tests
to define national identity. Judging from the debates raging and the confused
choices made, there is as little agreement within each country as there is
between them.

In the United States, discussions about creating a new citizenship test have
been going on for a decade. About $3.5 million has been spent since 2001 when
the Immigration and Naturalization Service promised a redesign. In 2004, a
report from the National Research Council recommended more bureaucratic
consultation, leading to concern that the process was going to become an
extended series of debates. A nonprofit concern, the American Institutes for
Research, was then asked to make a more practical ''feasibility study.''
Tomorrow, the Citizenship and Immigration Service (the successor to the I.N.S.)
will announce recommendations about how much the tests should be modified or
whether they should be changed at all.

Britain, meanwhile, introduced a new citizenship test in November and is
beginning formal induction ceremonies like those in America. Last week, the
newspaper The Guardian reported that the Netherlands was beginning a pilot
program in which tests about Dutch language and culture would be administered to
prospective immigrants in their native countries; the government also planned to
require all immigrants who stay in the Netherlands more than three years to take
citizenship classes. And earlier this month, the Baden-Wurttemberg region of
Germany instituted questions to be asked only of Muslims from particular
countries -- questions dealing with women's rights, religious freedom and
domestic life.

One reason for the flurry of activity has been just what the German questions so
bluntly address: the phenomenon of Muslim immigrants and citizens in Europe who
not only are segregated from a nation's culture but also hostile to it. In 2004,
for example, a poll found that 21 percent of Muslims in Germany believed the
Koran and the German Constitution were incompatible. Hence these attempts to
establish a shared identity based on particular beliefs and facts.

But which ones? Even where the notion of identity would seem to be fairly
secure, notions of citizenship can be slight. In Britain, the Home Office
minister in charge said the new procedures were meant to ''help new citizens to
gain a greater appreciation of the civic and political dimensions of British
citizenship.'' But while the 45-minute test includes questions about the
structure of the British government and stresses Britain's religious identity
(''What is the Church of England and who is its head?''), the main emphasis is
on the test's title: ''Life in the U.K.''

Judging from news reports and sample questions, the test treats British culture
not as a product of centuries of evolution and political struggle with stunning
achievements (and failures) -- in fact, there is almost no history on the test
at all -- but as a set of practical behaviors along with correct attitudes
toward women and ethnic minorities. The practical can be trivial: If you spill
someone else's beer in a pub, what should you do? What is the voltage of British
electric outlets? It is as if too much shouldn't be expected, because there is
not too much worth championing. Prospective citizens less fluent in English are
met with even lower expectations: they take a ''skills for life'' course instead
of an exam and demonstrate their competence to the instructor.

By comparison, the existing American test of history and civics knowledge seems
fairly robust. Objections to it arose partly because in the 1990's -- a record
decade for immigration -- standards had become so lax, that in many cases
background checks of aspirants failed to turn up significant criminal records.
In 1997, the Commission on Immigration Reform also found that there was no
consistency in administering or scoring the tests; often delivered orally in
regional offices, they were sometimes informally scaled by the examiners. The
commission also objected to the tests' reliance on memorization of facts rather
than on broader concepts.

When the redesign began in earnest in early 2001, ''stakeholder groups'' --
social service and legal agencies, schools, advocates for immigration --
objected, some arguing that the intention was to make the test more difficult
and leave less discretion for the examiners. The planned date for a new test,
2006, has been abandoned; Alfonso Aguilar, the chief of the Office of
Citizenship, suggests that a more realistic goal would be 2007 or 2008.

The current test covers a fair amount of trivia: the name of the Pilgrims' ship;
in which month a president is inaugurated. But there are also important
questions about government structure (''Why are there 100 senators in the
Senate?'') and ideas (''What is the basic belief of the Declaration of
Independence?''). No specific replacement questions have been publicly proposed.

''We see the test as an instrument to promote civic learning and patriotism,''
Mr. Aguilar said in a telephone interview last week. The purpose, he said, is
not to limit immigration but to create a system in which the process of
naturalization works. ''Our history has been one of expanded citizenship,'' he
said.

A new test could do no better than emphasize that point and demonstrate the
kinds of commitments made in citizenship. The process, after all, is called
naturalization because it really does change the alien into the natural, the
foreign into the familiar. The immigrant is giving up one identity and taking on
another; in the process, both country and citizen are transformed.

This has tended to be easier in the United States, where the very idea of the
nation is bound up with immigration, than in countries whose idea of the nation
is bound up with an inherited past. Yet now, even European nations must present
themselves in another form, as sets of ideas and customs, as cultures being
offered in exchange for sacrifices demanded. That social contract is not being
negotiated with much confidence in Britain, and it seems shaky enough elsewhere,
too. The United States generally seems more sure of what it is offering; coming
months will show how sure it is of what it is asking.

Border Patrol

  Here are some sample questions from the new tests:

Britain

  How interested are young people in politics? What do they see as the main
issues today?

Do women have equal rights and has this always been the case?

How many people say they have a religion and how many attend religious services?
What are the largest religious groups?

Where are Geordie, Cockney and Scouse dialects spoken?

What are quangos and non-departmental public bodies?

Baden-Wurttemberg

  What is your position on the statement that a wife should belong to her
husband and that he can beat her if she isn't obedient?

What do you think about parents forcibly marrying off their children? Do you
think that such marriages are compatible with human dignity?

Your fully grown daughter/your wife wants to dress like other German women.
Would you try to stop that? By what means?

Imagine that your grown son comes to you and declares that he is a homosexual
and wants to live with another man. How would you react?

Sources: www.lifeintheuktest.gov.uk, www.islam.de.

Connections, a critic's perspective on arts and ideas, appears every other
Monday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 26, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighter for Nepali Girls Rejoins Mother

BYLINE: By LILY KOPPEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 968 words


In 2005, Alice Poudel, 19, arrived in Queens from Nepal with her sister,
Dorothy, 14, and her brother, Ananta, 21. Theirs was a long trip, but not just
in physical distance.

After three long years of separation, they were reuniting with their mother,
Manju Poudel.

''Bold woman,'' is what Alice calls her mother, a social worker and successful
activist who fought against forced child prostitution in Nepal, helping to found
and direct the Daywalka Foundation. The foundation also provides refuge, health
care, job training and counseling to rescued girls.

According to recent estimates, more than 100,000 impoverished girls are lured by
flesh traders across the Nepalese-Indian border with promise of jobs or
marriages to wealthy men. The girls' average age is 14.

In October 2002, Manju Poudel, now 39, was granted political asylum in the
United States, where she spoke to the United Nations General Assembly and
testified about human trafficking before Congress.

During a recent interview in the family's two-room Elmhurst apartment, Alice,
who is studying criminal justice at Monroe College in the Bronx, took a break
from her schoolwork to talk about her family's long and arduous journey. Alice
said that her mother, who has a bachelor's degree in social science and a
background in journalism, is now working to support the financially troubled
family as a beautician in Manhattan; she doesn't return home until after 11 p.m.
She juggles this schedule while pursuing an additional degree in social work at
La Guardia Community College, but has so far not found more substantial work
here.

During the time they were separated from their mother, the children endured
their own challenges.

''There was nobody to take care of us,'' explained Alice, telling how she and
her siblings lived in a dormitory at their school in Katmandu.

In 2001, a year before their mother left Nepal, their father, a professor of
education, died mysteriously when the children were away at school. Her father's
parents did not want post-mortems done because of their conservative Nepalese
beliefs.

Then, Manju went away to America. But even across the miles, her example
inspired Alice, who picked up where her mother left off. Alice volunteered for
Maiti Nepal, a nonprofit group that fights the trafficking of children.

Alice counseled rescued women at border shelters and scouted rickshaws for
trafficking victims disguised as relatives of their captors. She also translated
for a professor who was doing research to publicize the horror of the slave
trade.

Finally, last June, the United States granted Alice, her brother and sister
derivative asylum status, for which their mother had been working on their
behalf since she arrived in the United States. The children were so overjoyed to
be reunited with their mother that they didn't leave her side at first. Watching
their mother cook or spending time together in her small Queens apartment was an
emotional experience.

In time, Alice contacted Catholic Charities Immigration and Refugee Services,
which has a program to provide refugees and asylum seekers with needed tools to
become active members of their new society. They received help with the initial
purchase of food, housewares and clothing. Alice also took advantage of resume
writing and job placement classes, which helped her land a job as a telephone
surveyor.

Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, a beneficiary of The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund, also secured $300 in Neediest Cases aid so that Alice
could buy textbooks.

Now that the family is reunited in New York, Alice and her siblings can focus on
their futures. She has plans for herself and her brother, Ananta, who is
studying biology at Manhattan Borough College, to transfer to Northwestern
University. They visited the university in the fall and have submitted their
applications.

Born Brahmin, the highest caste in Nepal's stratified society, Alice and her
family could have ignored the plight of those less fortunate than themselves.
But Alice sees the reflection in her own situation.

''It's the same thing,'' she said. ''The girls that I was helping there, they
were poor, they didn't know what to do. They were adjusting in a new place.''

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4
Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or
any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online,
courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at
www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on
how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all
contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services
and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes
to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $6,503,473.98
Recorded Tuesday: $33,795.00
Total: $6,537,268.98
Last year to date: $7,019,107.43


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alice Poudel, 19, calls her mother, Manju, ''bold woman'' for
fighting against child prostitution in Nepal. She, her sister and brother were
reunited last year with their mother after three years of separation. (Photo by
Uli Seit for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 27, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. and Mexico Trade Complaints Over Border Security Issues

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 26


The United States and Mexico exchanged diplomatic broadsides on Thursday over
border security and drug-related violence in another sign of their deteriorating
relationship.

The American ambassador, Antonio O. Garza Jr., sent a formal note to the Mexican
government demanding an investigation of an episode on Monday in which men
dressed as Mexican soldiers helped drug smugglers escape American law
enforcement officers near El Paso.

The ambassador took the unusual step of not only announcing the note, but
promising to send a second one to express concern about a rise in drug-related
violence in border towns and recent attacks on American Border Patrol agents.

''I am urging the Mexican government to take this elevated violence seriously,''
said Mr. Garza, a Texas Republican. ''In the past there has been a tendency to
focus on public relations instead of public security.''

Hours later the Mexican foreign minister, Luis Ernesto Derbez, suggested that it
was Mr. Garza who appeared to be playing to a crowd for political reasons.
''What he says is that one should not feed this discourse in the media, but find
a real solution,'' Mr. Derbez said. ''I would hope that he would apply his own
recommendation.'' Not to be outdone, Mr. Derbez announced that Mexico would send
its own diplomatic note responding to Mr. Garza's criticisms. He also said
Mexico would demand an explanation for the lack of progress in an investigation
of the fatal shooting of a Mexican immigrant, Guillermo Martinez, by a Border
Patrol agent on Dec. 30 near San Diego.

Mr. Derbez went on to suggest that the uniformed men in the incident on Monday,
who used a military Humvee with a mounted machine gun to help drug traffickers
cross the Rio Grande, might have been American soldiers in disguise.

The diplomatic quarrel comes amid strained relations between the two countries.
Mexican officials are furious about a bill before the United States Senate that
would make it a felony to enter the country illegally and would order
construction of 700 miles of fence along the border.

The bill is coming up for a vote as efforts to establish a guest worker program
that would legalize the status of millions of Mexicans in the United States have
stalled.

For their part, law enforcement officials in Texas and Arizona are up in arms
about what they say are intrusions into their states by Mexican police and
military units, sometimes in league with drug dealers. This week, Senator Jon
Kyl, an Arizona Republican, sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
demanding an investigation into the alleged incursions, of which he said there
had been more than 200 since 1996. American officials were also angered this
week when the Mexican government announced that it would distribute maps of the
Arizona desert to migrants, showing where water stations and other aid could be
found.

The homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, strongly condemned the idea,
saying it was ''a bad idea to encourage migrants to undertake this highly
dangerous and ultimately futile effort.''

The Mexican National Human Rights Commission said Thursday that it had suspended
the program, whose purpose was to reduce deaths from thirst and exhaustion. A
record 464 immigrants died crossing the 2,000-mile border last year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Insight, at Last, on Immigration

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 610 words


Ignorance is the death of good public policy. Conscientious elected officials
know this all too well; it is their job to wallow in budget projections,
environmental-impact statements and cost-benefit analyses. That is why it is
irksome, though not terribly surprising, that an issue that has consumed many
parts of the country in recent years -- illegal immigration -- has simmered
largely within an information vacuum.

Particularly in the New York suburbs, where so much attention has been focused
on day laborers from Latin America, the discourse has been a frustrating battle
of generalities wrapped in a fog of abstraction. Those who consider day laborers
a menace tend to become worked up over aesthetics (crowds of guys at the
7-Eleven are a visual blight) and political philosophy (to witness a truly
intense discussion of citizenship, national sovereignty and property rights,
attend a town-hall meeting on day laborers sometime).

Those who speak up for day laborers often fall back on general appeals to
compassion and an instinctive sympathy for the hard-working little guy. But
nobody, except for members of advocacy groups and maybe a few committed cops,
bothers to get to know many day laborers, who know their place in this economy
and society: underground.

Last week, however, brought news of a good first start toward a better
understanding of the day-laborer phenomenon. University researchers released the
first nationwide study of day laborers, based on interviews with 2,660 workers
at 264 hiring sites in 20 states and the District of Columbia.

The study affirmed that day labor is an entrenched national trend, and that
three-fourths of day laborers are here illegally. While that is not surprising,
the researchers also said they were disturbed at how treacherous the occupation
was -- that the prevalence of wage violations was ''incredibly high'' and that
dangerous job conditions were rampant. More than half of those surveyed said
they had been cheated out of wages in the previous two months, and 60 percent
said they had lost a week or more of work because of injuries.

The study suggested that day labor was only a temporary rung on the economic
ladder; 44 percent of those surveyed said they had been day laborers for less
than a year, while only 26 percent had been day laborers for more than three
years. Though some localities have responded to day laborers by cracking down on
contractors, the study found that slightly more laborers had been hired by
homeowners than by contractors -- 49 percent to 43 percent.

It is interesting to note that the researchers interviewed only workers who
gathered at hiring sites. Unfortunately, Long Island -- particularly Suffolk
County -- does not have very many of these. Yet the study is solid evidence that
providing hiring sites for day laborers is more than just the decent thing to
do. It is also a way to bring structure and organization to an ad hoc phenomenon
that has long been defined by furtiveness and chaos. Bringing the day laborers
out of the fringes will make it easier to enforce labor laws, dampen public
anger and hasten the arrival of sensible solutions.

In that spirit, we welcome a path-breaking effort announced recently by Mayor
David Kapell of Greenport. Struck by the sight of hundreds of Latino worshipers
at a recent Christmas Mass, he decided to conduct a census of everyone who lives
in his village, whatever their legal status, so that village services and
resources could be directed accordingly. It is a sign of decency and leadership
to show concern for how the other half lives. Or one-fourth. Or three-eighths.
Whatever it is, it's important to know.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Insight, at Last, on Immigration

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 678 words


Ignorance is the death of good public policy. Conscientious elected officials
know this all too well; it is their job to immerse themslves in budget
projections, environmental-impact statements and cost-benefit analyses.

That is one reason why it is irksome, though not terribly surprising, that an
issue that has consumed many parts of the country in recent years -- illegal
immigration -- has simmered largely within an information vacuum.

Particularly in the New York suburbs, where so much attention has been focused
on day laborers from Latin America, the discourse has been a frustrating battle
of generalities wrapped in a fog of abstraction. Those who consider day laborers
a menace tend to become worked up over aesthetics (crowds of guys at the
7-Eleven are a visual blight) and political philosophy (to witness a truly
intense discussion of citizenship, national sovereignty and property rights,
attend a town-hall meeting on day laborers sometime).

Those who speak up for day laborers often fall back on general appeals to
compassion and an instinctive sympathy for the hard-working little guy. But
nobody, except for members of advocacy groups and maybe a few committed cops,
bothers to get to know many day laborers, who know their place in this economy
and society: underground.

Last week, however, brought news of a good first start toward a better
understanding of the day-laborer phenomenon. University researchers released the
first nationwide study of day laborers, based on interviews with 2,660 workers
at 264 hiring sites in 20 states and the District of Columbia.

The study affirmed that day labor is an entrenched national trend, and that
three-fourths of day laborers are here illegally. While that is not surprising,
the researchers also said they were disturbed at how treacherous the occupation
was -- that the prevalence of wage violations was ''incredibly high'' and that
dangerous job conditions were rampant. More than half of those surveyed said
they had been cheated out of wages in the previous two months, and 60 percent
said they had lost a week or more of work because of injuries.

The study suggested that day labor was only a temporary rung on the economic
ladder; 44 percent of those surveyed said they had been day laborers for less
than a year, while only 26 percent had been day laborers for more than three
years. Though some localities responded to day laborers by cracking down on
contractors, the study showed that slightly more laborers had been hired by
homeowners than by contractors -- 49 percent to 43 percent.

It is interesting to note that the researchers interviewed only workers who
gathered at hiring sites. Unfortunately, our region does not have very many of
these. Some local governments and citizens have fought hard to keep them from
opening. Yet the study is solid evidence that providing hiring sites for day
laborers is more than just the decent thing to do. It is also a way to bring
structure to an ad hoc phenomenon that has long been defined by furtiveness and
chaos. Bringing day laborers out of the fringes will make it easier to enforce
labor laws, dampen public anger and hasten the arrival of sensible solutions.

Lacking a sound federal response to illegal immigration, we are left with
small-bore crackdowns, like the unconscionable jailing of eight men in Brewster
this month for the crime of playing soccer in a schoolyard. Such aggressive
actions may feel satisfying, but they don't add up to anything comprehensive or
smart.

We welcome a contrarian effort announced recently by Mayor David Kapell of
Greenport, a little village on the eastern tip of Long Island's North Fork.
Struck by the sight of hundreds of Latino worshipers at a recent Christmas Mass,
he decided to conduct a census of everyone who lives in his village, whatever
their legal status, so that services and resources could be directed
accordingly.

It is a sign of decency and leadership to show concern for how the other half
lives. Or one-fourth. Or three-eighths. Whatever it is, it's important to know.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 4, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Writer Denied Residency

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE; Compiled by Ben Sisario

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Arts, Briefly; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 214 words


Her writing awards include the Pushcart Prize, the Frank O'Connor International
Short Story Award and the Plimpton Prize for New Writers, and her letters of
support came from Salman Rushdie and David Remnick, editor of The New Yorker.
But it wasn't enough for the United States government.

This week, an appeal from the Chinese-born writer Yiyun Li for permanent
residency on the grounds of ''extraordinary ability in the arts'' was denied,
Ms. Li said yesterday. A letter she received on Monday dismissed her appeal
because, she said, when she first filed her petition in 2004, ''the very high
standard set by Congress'' had not been met: she had not yet received her
O'Connor award, and her book ''A Thousand Years of Good Prayers'' (Random House,
2005) had not been published. The rejection of the appeal was first reported
yesterday in The Washington Post. ''Of course, I'm very sad,'' said Ms. Li, 33,
who has written for The New York Times Magazine and The Paris Review and who
teaches creative writing at Mills College in Oakland, Calif. She is married to a
Chinese man who is also not a citizen but has two young children who were born
in the United States. ''It's a long process,'' she said. ''I think we're going
to try another petition with Mills sponsorship.''   FELICIA R. LEE

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Rosenberg Takes On the Government, This Time Using the Law as a Means of
Protest

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1117 words


A profile of Rachel Meeropol, the lead lawyer for a group of Muslim immigrants
suing the United States government, explains why she went to work for the Center
for Constitutional Rights.

''Rachel's interest in prisoners' rights work stems from her family's firsthand
experience with the destructive impact of the criminal 'justice' system on
communities and individuals,'' the profile explains cryptically, without
mentioning the most famous members of her family.

The best-known Meeropol may be Abel, a lyricist who (under a pseudonym) wrote
''Strange Fruit'' and ''The House I Live In.'' But the child he adopted, a young
boy named Robert, holds a special place in Cold War history. When he was 6, the
boy's birth parents, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, were executed at Sing Sing on
June 19, 1953, for conspiracy to commit espionage for the Soviet Union.

''It was something that I always knew, the way you know your name,'' Ms.
Meeropol, Robert Meeropol's daughter, once recalled. ''I was in first grade, and
my teacher asked if any of the kids in the class knew of any holidays that
happened in June. And I raised my hand and said, well, on June 19 in New York
City people celebrate my grandparents. And the teacher said, 'I'm sorry I've
never heard of that holiday.' ''

More than 50 years later, it is widely accepted that in the 1940's Julius
Rosenberg was, in fact, a Soviet spy. His network passed along military and
industrial secrets, most notably details about the atomic bomb, most of which
the Russians had obtained from other sources. Legally, Ethel Rosenberg is
considered much less culpable: Within the last few years, her brother, David
Greenglass, who was also charged in the conspiracy, acknowledged that he had
lied when he delivered the most incriminating evidence against her.

Ms. Meeropol said of her grandparents, ''I don't know what they did, but I know
they couldn't get a fair trial, that the death penalty was wrong, and that they
weren't guilty of what they were convicted of.''

Suppose Soviet archives conclusively revealed that her grandfather was a spy?

''It's not something I've spent much time thinking about,'' she replied. ''What
I take from my understanding of them is a sense of strength, resistance, being
involved in political struggle. I think I have a pretty fully formed opinion of
what they were like as people. It's not something that's dependent on Russian
sources or the latest document disclosure.''

''Today, I'm sure they would still be progressive people,'' she said. ''And they
would be terrified by the parallels in targeting and repression.''

Ms. Meeropol, a staff lawyer at the center -- where the median salary is about
$60,000 -- is representing Muslim immigrants, among hundreds of noncitizens who
were rounded up for visa violations in the weeks after 9/11. Many were held for
months in a federal detention center in Brooklyn as ''persons of interest'' to
terror investigators and then deported. The class-action lawsuit against
government officials and guards charges that the immigrants were abused and that
they were deprived of due process because of their religion or national origin.
Several of the immigrants returned to New York to give depositions in a
Manhattan hotel last week.

''The kind of torture, interrogation and arbitrary detention that we now
associate with Guantanamo and secret C.I.A. facilities really started right
here, in Brooklyn,'' she said.

Ms. Meeropol is herself a plaintiff in a suit filed last month by the Center for
Constitutional Rights, contending that her communications with clients at the
detention center may have been monitored illegally by the National Security
Agency.

The granddaughter of the Rosenbergs accusing the government of spying? It is an
irony that has not been lost on conservative Web logs. ''It's incredibly
simplistic to look at what I'm complaining about and find it ironic,'' she said.
''What I'm complaining about is a new version of that same type of misconduct:
when a threat from the outside causes the government to curtail civil liberties.
You can draw parallels to what happened to my grandparents.

''It's a different population being affected -- they're vulnerable,'' she added
of the immigrants, contrasting the climate now and then. ''In terms of the human
toll, it's just as bad if not worse than under McCarthy. If anything, it's worse
because of the secrecy with which this administration operates.''

Ms. Meeropol, who just turned 30, grew up in western Massachusetts, where her
father, a lawyer, runs the Rosenberg Fund for Children, which supports children
whose parents have suffered because of their progressive politics. (Her older
sister works for Campus Compact, which promotes community service.) She majored
in anthropology at Wesleyan, and graduated from New York University's law
school.

''I grew up reading my grandparents' letters, and they were emotionally
affecting,'' she said. ''Maybe it was as a teenager, thinking about what it
means to be in prison, that I felt compelled to get involved in that struggle.''

Ms. Meeropol was asked whether being a lawyer means she thinks the justice
system works.

''I don't think the system works,'' she replied. ''I don't think that being a
lawyer, not a street radical, means I believe the system works. I'm kind of a
nerd. I like to read, to write. This is the way I'm more comfortable
participating.''

She lives in Brooklyn. Her boyfriend is studying education policy at Teachers
College. She met him at a progressive summer camp where the Meeropol name was
iconic, so she never had to flaunt her political pedigree.

''I don't usually use it as a pickup line,'' she said.

Ms. Meeropol is a registered Democrat but a self-described radical, and her
family background leads to questions one might not ordinarily pose to an
ordinary lawyer.

For example, can she envision any circumstances under which she could justify
passing secrets to a foreign power?

''Can I imagine any situation where I would feel the balance of power is so
dangerous to humanity that it would be O.K. to do something like that?'' she
replied. ''Sure.''

Suppose one of her clients confided that he was a terrorist and had planted an
atomic bomb?

''As an attorney, if you believe your client is giving you information that
would lead to imminent death, you have an ethical obligation to report that,''
she said. ''I would try to figure out a way to stop that bomb from going off.''

How does she reconcile being a radical and an officer of the court?

''Part of our mission at the center is to bring cases other people might be too
timid to bring,'' Ms. Meeropol said. ''I'm devoted to trying to make the law
work.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rachel Meeropol, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional
Rights, is representing Muslim immigrants suing the United States. (Photo by
Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Adding Newsprint to the Fire

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: PARIS


EUROPEANS hoisted the banner of press freedom last week in response to Muslim
anger over a dozen Danish cartoons, some of them mocking the Prophet Muhammad.
But something deeper and more complex was also at work: The fracas grew out of,
and then fed, a war of polemics between Europe's anti-immigrant nationalists and
the fundamentalist Muslims among its immigrants.

''One extreme triggers the other,'' said Jonas Gahr Store, Norway's foreign
minister, arguing that both sides want to polarize the debate at the expense of
the moderate majority. ''These issues are dangerous because they give the
extremes fertile ground.''

How did it begin? Oddly, with a decision by a Danish newspaper to commission,
and then print, cartoons portraying the Prophet Muhammad in whatever light
cartoonists chose to put him.

The newspaper's culture editor, Fleming Rose, says he intended simply to test
cartoonists to see if they were self-censoring their work, out of fear of
violence from Islamic radicals. He cited a Danish comedian, who said in an
interview that he had no problem urinating on the Bible but that he would not
dare do the same to the Koran.

''Some Muslims try to impose their religious taboos in the public domain,'' said
Mr. Rose. ''In my book, that's not asking for my respect, it's asking for my
submission.''

Mr. Rose wrote to the Danish Cartoonist Society, inviting cartoonists to depict
their interpretation of the Prophet -- whose likeness many devout Muslims
believe should never be depicted. Some refused on the grounds that the exercise
was a provocation, but a dozen complied.

Mr. Rose said not all 12 drawings would offend Muslims: one depicted a Danish
anti-immigration politician in a police lineup, and another lampooned Mr. Rose
as an agent provocateur.

''It wasn't meant to insult or hurt anybody's feelings,'' Mr. Rose said, drawing
a distinction between criticizing religious authority, ''which goes all the way
back to Voltaire and the tradition of the Enlightenment,'' and the ''far greater
offense of denigrating a specific ethnic group.''

But this did not take place in a political vacuum. Hostile feelings have been
growing between Denmark's immigrants and a government supported by the
right-wing Danish People's Party, which has pushed anti-immigrant policies. And
stereotyping in cartoons has a notorious history in Europe, where anti-Semitic
caricatures fed the Holocaust, just as they feed anti-Israeli propaganda in the
Middle East today.

In the current climate, some experts on mass communications suggest, the
exercise was no more benign than commissioning caricatures of African-Americans
would have been during the 1960's civil rights struggle. ''You have to ask what
was the intent of these cartoons, bearing in mind the recent history of tension
in Denmark with the Muslim community,'' said David Welch, head of the Center for
the Study of Propaganda and War at the University of Kent in Britain. Nicholas
Lemann, dean of the Columbia Journalism School, put it this way: ''He knew what
he was doing.''

The reaction, in any event, was clearly deliberate. A group of Denmark's
fundamentalist Muslim clerics lobbied the embassies of 11 mostly Muslim
countries to demand a meeting with Denmark's prime minister, Anders Fogh
Rasmussen. When he refused, the clerics took their show on the road, shopping
the offending images around the Middle East.

The clerics inflamed the response by including in their presentation far more
offensive cartoons that never appeared in any newspaper, some depicting Muhammad
as a pedophile, a pig or engaged in bestiality.

The result: Boycotts of Danish goods spread in the Middle East, while newspapers
across Europe reprinted the offending cartoons as an act of solidarity with Mr.
Rose's newspaper.

And there was agonizing over what it meant for both press freedom and tolerance.
''The limit to freedom of expression is the point at which there is an intent to
harm a person or a community,'' said William Bourdon, a French lawyer who has
handled high-profile freedom of speech cases. ''It's not because there was a
reaction that there should be a presumption of intent.''

But Mustafa Hussain, a Pakistani-born Danish sociologist, said the cartoons
showed how far to the right Europe's debate has swung. ''Switch on the
television and you have the impression that Muslims are all fanatics, that
Muslims don't understand Western liberal values,'' he said.

Mr. Rose offered a distinction between respecting other people's faith, which he
favors, and obeying someone else's religious taboos, which he said society has
no obligation to do.

But whether his exercise had achieved his stated goal -- of forcing citizens to
think about their submission to someone else's taboos -- it was clear that it
had helped extremists on both sides who would keep Europe and the Muslim world
from understanding each other.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Cites Rise in Violence Along Border With Mexico

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10


Mexican criminal syndicates are stepping up their attacks on American agents
patrolling the border as officials of the Homeland Security Department intensify
efforts to stem the flow of immigrants and drugs into the United States,
American officials said this week.

In recent months, scores of Border Patrol agents have been fired upon or pelted
with large stones as well as with cloth-covered stones that have been doused
with flammable liquid and set ablaze. Since October, agents have been attacked
in more than 190 cases, officials said on Thursday.

Most of the attacks have occurred along the Mexican border near San Diego, but
shootings have also been reported along the border in Texas near the cities of
Laredo and McAllen. In the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, there were 778
attacks on agents, up from 374 in the previous fiscal year, Homeland Security
Department officials said.

One stone struck an agent in the eye; a gunshot hit an agent in the leg. The
officials could not say precisely how many officers had been injured in the
attacks, which have originated from both sides of the border.

''This is what we're facing,'' said David V. Aguilar, the Border Patrol chief,
who played a videotape at a news conference on Thursday that featured a patrol
car riddled with bullets and agents scrambling for cover as stones rained down
on them. ''This is a very serious type of situation.''

The homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, who led the news conference,
said officials planned to continue their efforts at securing the United
States-Mexico border.

This week President Bush asked Congress to increase the Homeland Security
Department's budget by nearly 6 percent. The Border Patrol would receive an
extra $459 million to hire 1,500 new agents, bringing the total force to about
14,000. An additional $410 million would be allocated to add 6,700 beds for
detainees so fewer illegal immigrants would have to be released before being
deported. Another $100 million would be spent on cameras, sensors and other
detection technology.

Mr. Chertoff said the department planned to focus on illegal immigrants from
countries other than Mexico, who have typically been released after apprehension
because of shortages of beds. Last fall, he expanded the use of summary
deportations, a process known as expedited removal, in which illegal immigrants
from countries other than Mexico are detained and then deported without seeing
an immigration judge.

But officials have struggled to find space for family groups and remain unable
to process illegal immigrants from El Salvador because of a court ruling from
the 1980's, when civil war wracked that country, that requires officials to
allow Salvadorans to see judges before deportation.

Nationwide, 18,207 illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico, nearly
60 percent of the total apprehended, were released on their own recognizance in
the first three months of this fiscal year.

Officials of the Homeland Security Department said they were making headway in
detaining and deporting these illegal immigrants. They are also working on
finding more space for families and battling to change the rule regarding
Salvadorans.

As for the violence on the border, the officials said Mexico had deployed 300
federal officers along its side of the border to help out. But many of the
Mexican gangs remain entrenched.

Last week, immigration officials announced that they had seized a cache of
weapons, including materials for 33 explosive devices, assault weapons and
machine gun assembly kits, in Laredo. Officials believe the weapons were
intended for criminals in Mexico.

''These are very sophisticated, hardened criminals who will use violence to
protect their criminal businesses,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''We've got to be
prepared to deal very decisively with any violence directed at our Border Patrol
agents.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 12, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wanted: Day Laborers

BYLINE: By Carola Otero Bracco.

Carola Otero Bracco is the executive director of Neighbors Link.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: Mount Kisco, N.Y.


IMMIGRATION is the face of this country. In Westchester County and on Long
Island, it influences everything from traffic patterns and the kind of ethnic
foods we eat to the character of the historic enclaves and towns we live in.

Unfortunately, the benefits that immigrants bring to this country are being
forgotten on Long Island and in Westchester as battles erupt over the
free-flowing and informal labor force that has sprung up in response to our
insatiable appetite for cheap labor.

Towns like Brewster, Farmingville and Mamaroneck face rising tension between
residents and day laborers who line the sidewalks looking for work. And town
leaders must balance appeasing irate citizens with providing labor for the
businesses that form their tax base.

This tension and frustration, which run throughout our country, was certainly
one of the reasons that the House of Representatives in December passed a bill
that would criminalize, detain and deport the nearly 11 million undocumented
workers in this country. Such a simplistic and overreaching approach does
nothing, however, to deal with the reality of our economic needs and our broken
immigration system.

Instead, it helps to perpetuate the ugly myths surrounding these workers,
fueling animosity and misunderstanding in communities across America struggling
to integrate new immigrants.

Fortunately, an antidote to these myths is at hand: ''On the Corner: Day Labor
in the United States,'' the first comprehensive nationwide study of the day
labor phenomenon. Written by researchers at the University of California, Los
Angeles and elsewhere, it has important implications for towns and localities
across Westchester and Long Island. Among its findings are these:

Myth: Day laborers get a free ride because they don't pay taxes.

Reality: By some measures, day laborers pay more than their share of taxes. Day
workers rarely earn more than $15,000 a year, placing them among the working
poor. If they were documented, this income would make them eligible for earned
income credits and maybe even a tax refund.

They also pay property taxes through the high rents charged by the landlords in
this area. A bed in a shared apartment can cost $400 a month in Westchester
County. Laborers also pay the same sales taxes as everyone else.

Myth: Day labor is a choice that these workers favor.

Reality: The largest segment of surveyed laborers is employed in the day labor
market for less than one year. For many of these workers, day labor is a stop
gap until a permanent job opens up.

Myth: Day laborers are itinerants and have no ties to the towns where they seek
work.

Reality: According to the study, about one in three day laborers has lived in
the United States for six or more years. They attend church regularly and are
involved in sports clubs and community centers.

Myth: Hiring sites are magnets that draw unwanted immigrants to an area.

Reality: Day labor markets are driven by the simple economics of supply and
demand. They develop in areas where there is a need for pools of low-cost labor.

Without these laborers we would be hard pressed to find nannies in Chappaqua,
gardeners in Glen Cove, kitchen workers to prepare food in our favorite
restaurants or home health care workers to help keep our elderly parents at home
in Wantagh. And we means you and me, not just contractors: On the East Coast,
which has the second largest percentage of day laborers, individuals hire 42
percent of day laborers.

There are proven solutions to managing this labor demand. Chief among them are
day-labor worker centers, 63 of which now operate in 17 states. Communities
sponsoring formal worker centers find relief from the tensions between the day
workers and residents. These centers also help prevent labor and civil rights
abuses, provide improved working conditions and help workers recover unpaid
wages.

In 2000, when the proliferation of informal hiring sites raised tensions in
Mount Kisco, community leaders formed my organization, Neighbors Link, as a
formal day labor hiring site. Since then, we have expanded into a center that
offers workers and their families computer training, English classes and other
community-building activities -- a possible model for other towns seeking to
integrate workers.

Without a doubt, the day laborer phenomenon is one of the most vexing challenges
facing our region and our country, raising issues of economics, immigration and
human rights that will bedevil policymakers for years to come.

As long as our need for cheap labor continues, immigrants will come to our
borders. But the House bill that seeks to criminalize day laborers, now pending
in the Senate, does not fix our immigration system nor does it absolve us of our
responsibility to put a human face on this complex problem.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Inquiry Into Deportation Of Pregnant Woman

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN (NYT); Compiled by Joseph P. Fried

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 177 words


Federal immigration officials said yesterday that they would investigate
allegations that their officers mistreated a pregnant Chinese woman who
miscarried twins on Feb. 7 after she was taken from Philadelphia to Kennedy
International Airport to be deported. Dean Boyd, a spokesman for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, called the accusations, which spurred protest rallies in
two cities yesterday, ''categorically false.'' But ''as a matter of protocol,''
he said, they have been referred to the agency's Office of Professional
Responsibility. Mr. Boyd said that immigration officers learned that the woman,
Zhenxing Jiang, 32, was pregnant only when she reported to them that day at 9
a.m., and ''they took special precautions in handling her.'' He said the agency
had interviewed the officers and concluded that ''contrary to the claims of her
attorney, she was not pushed or bruised,'' ridiculed or denied food. He said
that she made no complaints of pain until shortly before her flight, and that an
ambulance was called immediately.    NINA BERNSTEIN (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 20, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

At $2 a Dance, a Remedy for Loneliness

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 686 words


Gloria Pagan, the $2 bachata ballerina, was being danced off her feet. She had
hardly led one eager gentleman onto the floor for a rapid two-step when a
frantic merengue came on the sound system and another man in soiled work boots
waved a few bucks for a dance of his own.

''Most of these men are Mexican or Ecuadorean and they've left their wives and
families in their countries, so they're lonely,'' said Ms. Pagan, 22, a dance
partner for hire at La Nueva Aguila, a bar in Corona, Queens. ''They're lonely
for a woman, so if they have a little money, they can have a woman to keep them
company for a little while.''

After a string of spirited dances in the wee morning hours yesterday, Ms. Pagan
collapsed into a chair. Then she cooled down outside, smoking cigarettes with
two other dancers, Johanna Perez and Maria Bargos.

The three women, all Dominican-Americans, are from the Washington Heights
neighborhood of Manhattan. But on weekends they come to Queens to dance Latin
American staples like bachata and cumbia in bars and nightclubs frequented by
immigrant men who shell out $2 a dance and $10 a drink.

These clubs are a variation on the New York City dance halls of decades ago. The
price is no longer 10 cents a dance, but for-hire dancers are still a source of
comfort for immigrant men with limited social status and contacts in a strange
city.

Many of the men are part of a work force of day laborers, dishwashers, busboys,
landscapers and construction workers. Many are illegal immigrants who share
tight living quarters with other men to help them save money to send to families
left behind in their home countries.

The large $2 dance halls along Roosevelt Avenue in Jackson Heights -- including
the Flamingo, the Casanova nightclub and La Romantica -- attract young men (no
female patrons are allowed) in dress shirts who rush to dance with a roster of
young, attractive women who work there.

A more casual crowd, many of them still in work clothes, flocks to the smaller
clubs and bars along 37th Avenue after the restaurant work shifts end around
midnight. Here, the women tend to be slightly older, and more gregarious and
maternal.

Whatever the club, the men try to leave their problems at the door as they step
into a welcoming world with cold beer, infectious music and warm women to soothe
their loneliness. For a handful of dollar bills, the men spin the women onto a
crowded dance floor pulsating with rhythm and swirling with strobe-lighted
color.

Jesus James, 37, a bouncer at one of the Corona clubs, said the presence of
dancers for hire had become vital for local club owners.

''From a business perspective, more and more clubs and bars around here are
using them to stay open,'' he said. ''It's good for the guys, too. They don't
make much money, and don't get treated all that good in their daily life, so
they're willing to spend whatever they have in their pocket to make themselves
feel better.''

Several bouncers said the men usually observed the decorum of the
dance-for-dollars arrangement. But after an evening of drinking and dancing,
some believe that they are entitled to something more from the women, the
bouncers said, and patrons who grow unruly are warned.

One dancer, Erika Martinez, 19, of Corona, said it was sad to see a man begin
drinking and end up squandering much of his day's pay on short-term
companionship. ''But they're grown men,'' she said. ''If this is what they want,
that's their decision.''

Ms. Martinez said she and other dancers earned as much as $150 on some nights,
and as little as $50 on others. ''First they ask you to dance, and then they
say, 'Hey, you want to sit at my table?' '' she said. ''You sit and talk for a
little while if they're buying you drinks. Regular bar drinks are $5, but if
they're buying one for the girls, it's $10; five goes to the club, and five goes
to the girl.''

The D.J.'s help the women maximize their dance earnings by stringing together
quick medleys to keep the money flowing.

''You don't have to be a great dancer,'' Ms. Perez said, striking a pose. ''You
just have to want to dance with them.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gloria Pagan, 22, of Washington Heights, is one of the dancers
at La Nueva Aguila, a bar in Corona, Queens. (Photo by Shiho Fukada/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seeking Less Stress, and Finding Great Neck

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1705 words

DATELINE: GREAT NECK, N.Y.


In the annals of American newcomers, there must be relatively few immigrants
like the Shins. They are an affluent couple in their 40's with two teenage
children. They were well established in their careers in Seoul. And then, last
July, Maria Shin came to the United States for her first visit, carrying a
pocket translator, a laptop and a map on which she had marked out the best
American schools with sizable Asian populations.

She visited Scarsdale. ''A little bit too much,'' she said, meaning it was a
little too expensive.

She visited the suburbs of Los Angeles. ''Too much fun,'' she said, referring to
what she perceived as California goofiness.

Then she came to this community on the North Shore of Long Island, where houses
cost $1 million and the schools are known for producing Ivy League-bound
graduates.

''Great Neck is where we chose,'' she said in halting English, which she works
to improve in conversation classes two or three times a week at the Adult
Education Center here. ''Here are many Asians. And here my children have more
more  chance to live normal.''

The chance to live normal is a relative value and might mean many different
things to different people. But among a growing group of monied Chinese and
South Korean newcomers arriving in this community of 40,000 in Nassau County,
there is a strong feeling of what it means: the chance to spare their children
the grinding competition and unrelieved pressure of scholastic life in their
homelands.

Like immigrants in every past wave, Asian newcomers most often cite the desire
to improve their children's lot as a reason for uprooting their families. But
it's a subtly different desire, too.

There are economic and educational opportunities aplenty in China and South
Korea, after all. The rub seems to be in the single-mindedness demanded of
children who wish to access those opportunities.

''Too much pressure, the children,'' said Fu Hong, 34, whose 5-year-old son was
born in Shanghai just before she and her husband, a manufacturer's
representative with interests in several factories, moved to a house in Great
Neck. Their daughter was born here in 2002. ''A lot of pressure. Here, he has
fun. Skate. Swim. Aikido.''

Ike Yuh, a former importer, sold his house, cashed in his business and arrived
in Great Neck from Seoul seven months ago with his wife, a pharmacist, and their
15-year-old son, Joshua. They live for now in a two-bedroom apartment near the
train station.

''It is very strict, very hard for the children,'' he said of life in South
Korea. ''They study 7 a.m. to midnight. Too much. No time. No time for  human.''

Joshua now plays saxophone in the Great Neck South High School band, and is
picking up the guitar, his father said.

It is not the first time in recent years that well-off immigrants have settled
in Great Neck. Thirty years ago, affluent Jews fleeing the Islamic theocracy of
Iran came to Great Neck by the hundreds if not thousands. They came not only for
the first-rate schools and because it was one of America's premier suburbs, but
because since the 1950's and 60's Great Neck has been predominantly Jewish.

For the past 10 years, though, Chinese and South Koreans from Flushing, Bayside
and other Queens neighborhoods have been making the short hop over the Nassau
County border to settle in Great Neck. That trend, and the myriad social and
cultural connections forged by it, seems to have made possible the newest trend
among families like the Shins -- those moving here directly from China and South
Korea, a move that demographers say is a new pattern of immigrants making the
suburbs their first home.

As of last year, the overall Great Neck school population was 20 percent Asian.
At Great Neck South High School, one of two high schools in the district, the
Asian population was more than 30 percent.

''Could we become a majority Asian district in 10 years?'' mused Ronald
Friedman, the superintendent of Great Neck schools. ''Who knows? It's
possible.''

Though their numbers are difficult to establish, those who come directly from
Asia seem to be the fastest-growing sector among Asians in Great Neck. And
though their experience conforms in many ways to that of all immigrants -- the
struggle to acquire new language skills, to adapt to new cultural norms -- it is
also in some ways a unique experience.

The economic miracles that have transformed China and South Korea into
manufacturing and technology dynamos have been fed in large part by educational
systems in which young people are said to face intense, all-or-nothing
competition for top honors. Published reports have described six-day school
weeks, 8- to-10-hour school days, after-school tutoring in so-called cram
schools and a relentless pressure to conform.

To some observers, it is ironic that in fleeing such intensity the newcomers
have landed in Great Neck, where there is as competitive a school environment as
exists anywhere in the United States. Great Neck is known for its own cram
schools. S.A.T. tutoring begins for some in the seventh grade. There is a
cottage industry of piano teachers, fencing instructors, writing coaches and
tutors who specialize not in remedial foreign language study but in the
perfection of accent and idiom.

But if anything, the newcomers moving in are occupying more than just the
physical real estate of Great Neck, a place that unself-consciously incorporates
within its boundaries a community named Lake Success. They are inhabiting, also,
its real estate of aspiration.

''In the last five to seven years, half my business has been tutoring Chinese
and Korean students who are getting straight A's in school and who want an even
more intensive experience,'' said Beth Berney, the proprietor and sole staff
member of the Beth Berney Language Center in Great Neck, one of dozens of
private tutoring businesses in the community. ''The parents are extremely
motivated; the kids are extremely motivated. It's a pleasure. I'm having a
wonderful time.''

If there is tension between the old and the new ethnic communities in this
suburb, it is subdued and for the most part invisible. In 2001, a letter
published in the Great Neck South High School newspaper contained derogatory
remarks about Asian immigrants, and prompted several meetings between school
officials and members of the well-organized Great Neck Chinese Association, a
group representing about 400 families, its president, Pat Lo, said.

''It was an unpleasant incident, but it is long ago, and I think everyone
learned from it,'' she said. ''Our goal is to remain here and to contribute to
this community. It is a great community.''

There are other places attracting affluent Asian immigrants. Northern New Jersey
and the suburbs of Boston and Chicago also have well-established Asian
communities that newcomers consider suitable. But Great Neck's appeal, according
to many of those interviewed, is rooted not only in its proximity to New York
but its particular closeness to the cultural infrastructure of Flushing, which
is the largest of New York City's three Chinatowns and one of the largest Asian
hubs in America. The oldest Chinatown in New York, of course, is the one in
Manhattan; the third-largest is in Sunset Park, Brooklyn.

As for the enclave in Flushing, ''It has the restaurants, grocery stores and
shopping that people need,'' said Rachel Sha, who immigrated from Shanghai as a
student in 1985 and now lives in Great Neck. And there is the bus line, the N21,
which connects Great Neck and Flushing and has become the link for those seeking
Chinese or Korean-speaking domestic or child-care help, she said.

But overwhelmingly, the single most-often-cited appeal of Great Neck for Asian
newcomers is the schools, and in particular one school. ''Great Neck South High
School,'' said Mr. Yuh, the South Korean importer who arrived seven months ago
after an exhaustive online search for the right schools for his son. ''After
that, then M.I.T.''

Scholars and demographers describe three major waves of Asian settlers in the
United States in the last 40 years: those who arrived from Taiwan and Hong Kong
in the 70's and 80's, Koreans and Chinese who came as students in the 1990's
and, most recently, the new entrepreneurs from China and Korea.

Among the first two groups, the most common route to Great Neck was through
progressively more affluent neighborhoods in Queens: Flushing, Elmhurst and,
mainly, Bayside.

And like the previous groups, the newest arrivals are coming as families. For
some, however, there is a catch. In parts of Great Neck there are enclaves of
women whose husbands have moved them and their children from China but are often
absent, traveling between China and the United States, some as garment buyers
for American retailers and others employed in various professions.

''The women left at home have what I call the 'married single life,' '' said
Lena Huang, a guidance counselor at the Adult Learning Center in Great Neck,
which is operated by the school district. ''Their husbands are here one month,
gone one month,'' she said, ''and the women for the most part are quite
isolated. There is a lot of sadness.''

Four years ago, Sherry Fan came to Great Neck from Beijing with her 10-year-old
son, Frank.

His asthma was constantly aggravated by the infamously polluted air of Beijing.
Here, he has had few respiratory problems. But she and Frank's father, a
television director and actor, see each other only intermittently. For her,
''sometimes life is a little boring.''

Her life revolves around a small community of friends, her English conversation
classes, which she takes four times a week, and driving her son to lessons after
school. He takes piano, painting, dance, karate and swimming.

''He has friends,'' she said of her son, upstairs in his bedroom in their Great
Neck town house. ''They call him. I hear him speaking on phone, speak English. I
am very happy. He have opportunities here. My husband wants him here.''

Will she return to China when her son is finished with school?

''Seven more years before he finish college. Then? I don't know,'' she said.
''Whatever he will do, where he will go, I will go. To give the boy good life.
That is all.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Shin, center, and her husband, Inho, moved to Great Neck
from Seoul, seeking a less pressured academic life for their two teenage
children. At right, Sherry Fan and her son, Frank, 14. He takes piano, painting,
dance, karate and swimming after school. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New
York Times)(pg. B1)
 Ike Yuh, from South Korea, is among a growing number of immigrants leaving the
strict regimen of Asian schools and moving to the United States. He studies
English at the Adult Learning Center in Great Neck. (Photo by Ruby
Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kean Is Striving For a Conservative Look

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; WORTH NOTING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 178 words


Although Tom Kean Jr. was in the news for his opposition to the Bush
administration's port deal, he has directed much of his political energy in
recent days toward establishing his credentials with conservative voters, whose
support will be crucial in his bid for the United States Senate.

He came out in support of the nomination of Samuel A. Alito Jr. as a Supreme
Court justice and then aggressively criticized his senatorial opponent, Robert
Menendez, for opposing it.

And in an interview with Roll Call, a Capitol Hill newspaper, he advocated
making the president's tax cuts permanent and declared his support for the war
in Iraq.

Still, unfortunately for Mr. Kean, a personable and generally moderate state
senator from Westfield, some New Jersey conservatives are still firmly on the
fence about him. ''Illegal immigration, abortion and gun rights,'' said Steve
Lonegan, the proudly right-wing Republican mayor of Bogota who ran for governor
last year. ''How he does on those issues will be the real test. Those other
things were the easy lifts.''    JOSH BENSON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Orders U.S. to Allay 9/11 Spy Fears

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 344 words


A federal magistrate in Brooklyn ordered government lawyers at a hearing
yesterday to guarantee in writing that the United States was not secretly
monitoring communications between the plaintiffs and their lawyers in a
class-action lawsuit against former Attorney General John Ashcroft and other top
officials.

The plaintiffs in the case are Muslim immigrants who were swept up in the New
York area after Sept. 11, 2001, detained for months and deported after being
cleared of any links to terrorism. Several briefly returned to New York from
Egypt and Pakistan this year to give depositions at an undisclosed hotel.

Their lawyers have asked if the rooms where they and their clients conferred
were bugged or videotaped and if their e-mail messages and telephone calls were
intercepted. If so, they ask, on whose authority? But the government has refused
to answer, saying the questions were outside the realm of the lawsuit.

Rachel Meeropol, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, which
represents many of the detainees, wrote the magistrate that the questions were
prompted by disclosures that the National Security Agency has intercepted
electronic communications inside and outside the United States, without a
warrant, under an executive order being challenged in a separate lawsuit.

The magistrate, Steven M. Gold, said that the questions were probably outside
the scope of the lawsuit. But, he said, the plaintiffs' lawyers were ''at
minimum'' entitled to assurance that the government litigation team and any
potential witnesses -- who include Mr. Ashcroft and Robert S. Mueller III, the
F.B.I. director, did not know of any spying. Magistrate Gold said he also wanted
''a commitment'' that no information collected through such eavesdropping would
be used in the case.

''They can't be expected to prepare their case if they think someone is
listening to them,'' he told Stephen E. Handler, a Justice Department lawyer.
''I don't want them looking over their shoulders and worrying that you're
getting phone calls from some N.S.A.'' agent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Church and the Illegal-Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 106 words



To the Editor:

The implication that the many serious Americans who are concerned with the
''enormous influx of illegal immigrants'' reflects the nativist strain of
American thought or are members of a ''fringe'' group is insulting.

Use of this emotionally loaded phrase to describe the many Americans concerned
with this issue, most of whom support legal immigration, does not advance the
debate.

Couldn't you have written instead ''stirred the passions of the nativist fringe
and raised serious, legitimate concerns even among citizens who otherwise
support reasonable immigration policies''?

Stephen B. Butler
Wilton, Conn., March 3, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Census Shows Slight Dip in City, But Demographers Beg to Differ

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 307 words


The engine driving New York City's population growth -- immigration -- appears
to have slowed slightly, contributing to a tiny decline in the city's population
in the year ended July 1, 2005, according to estimates released yesterday by the
Census Bureau.

But city demographers, who have successfully challenged earlier undercounts by
the bureau, said they would challenge the latest estimates, too. They said their
own figures, based on housing construction and other evidence, show that the
city's population as of last July was probably 8.2 million, a record high. A
number of federal aid programs disburse money based on population.

Once again, the census found the sharpest population growth nationally in
counties in the South and West.

In the city, the census found, the influx of foreigners slowed from 91,000 in
the year ended July 1, 2004, to 83,000 in the next 12 months. Partly as a
result, the city's overall population declined by about 21,000 to 8.143 million,
with every borough except Manhattan registering a one-year loss.

In the metropolitan area, only one county -- Somerset in New Jersey -- recorded
a population increase of 1 percent or more.

In the first half of the decade, Ocean County, N.J., registered the largest
percentage of population gain in the metropolitan area: 9.3 percent. Only three
counties, Nassau on Long Island and Hudson and Essex in New Jersey, showed a
decline.

Manhattan gained more people in that period, 55,000, than any other county in
the region.

William Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution in Washington, said
that in contrast to metropolitan sprawl in Chicago, Washington, Philadelphia and
Boston, most of the growth in the New York region was still being fueled by
immigration and natural increase (more births than deaths) rather than by
newcomers from other states.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 18, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Lawyers Keep Silence On Listening In

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 393 words


Is the government secretly monitoring communications between plaintiffs and
their lawyers in a federal class-action lawsuit against former Attorney General
John Ashcroft and other top officials? Government lawyers yesterday politely
refused a court order that they answer that question, asking instead that the
court reconsider the order.

The plaintiffs in the case are Muslim immigrants who were swept up in the New
York area after Sept. 11, 2001, detained for months and deported after being
cleared of any links to terrorism.

Magistrate Judge Steven M. Gold of United States District Court in Brooklyn
ordered the government on March 7 to guarantee in writing that neither the
litigation team nor the potential witnesses -- who include the F.B.I. director,
Robert S. Mueller III -- were aware of such eavesdropping, and that no such
evidence would be used in the case.

But Stephen E. Handler of the Justice Department wrote in a filing yesterday
that if knowledge of such activity were denied in one case, a refusal to confirm
or deny it in another case ''could itself tend to reveal classified
information.''

A legal scholar said the government's refusal raised new concerns about the
scope of a program of electronic interceptions conducted without a warrant by
National Security Agency inside and outside the United States under an executive
order being challenged in a separate lawsuit.

''This is a pretty clear red flag'' that eavesdropping occurred in the
detainees' case, said Stephen J. Schulhofer, a professor of law at New York
University who is an expert on national security. ''The kind of surveillance
that the president authorized under the N.S.A. wiretap was very likely deployed
against these individuals when one party to the conversation was abroad and one
party to the conversation, probably their lawyers, were in this country.''

Rachel Meeropol, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, which
represents the detainees, said she was shocked by the government's stance.

''The implication of this letter is that attorneys defending the United States
in civil cases could have access to the confidential communication between their
opponents and their opponents' clients,'' she said. ''You can't ethically
represent a client if you can't have a conversation with them where you're
secure that your opponent can't hear it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Years of Political Service Vs. Some Ill-Timed Remarks

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J.


SITTING at the back of a Lebanese restaurant in South Paterson in his crisp gray
suit, cellphone incessantly beeping, Sami Merhi cites the Constitution, reflects
on family, tells an immigrant's success story, muses ruefully about lessons
learned.

''My grandfather told me this is the only place on earth where you will never
feel a stranger,'' said the most famous almost-freeholder in Passaic County
history. ''And I believe it.''

He says it in the present tense, though it's impossible to imagine the thought
without a jagged edge. A week ago Mr. Merhi won a prize that loomed incredibly
large to someone who immigrated from Lebanon 29 years ago: the endorsement by
Democratic Party leaders as the party's nominee for Passaic County freeholder.

Within days, he was being denounced as a terrorist sympathizer. (''Defender of
suicide bombers gets Dem nod in Passaic,'' ran the headline over an item in the
widely read PoliticsNJ Web site last week.) A week later, after his candidacy
became part of the parry and thrust in the United States Senate race and after
his party's statewide leaders, Senator Robert Menendez and Gov. Jon S. Corzine,
said they could not support it, the endorsement was rescinded.

You can read two stories into the life of Sami Merhi. The first is told over 29
years in which he has prospered as a widely respected businessman and community
leader. He is president of a local hospital, an energetic Democratic
fund-raiser, a member of the Passaic County Counterterrorism Task Force. In this
one, Mr. Merhi, 57, seems about as radical as a piece of pita bread.

The second is told in a portion of a single day reported in The New York Times
four years ago, when he made remarks that were, at the very least, politically
insensitive and tin-eared about terrorism -- a topic on which no Arab-American
can ever afford to hit a wrong note. Not surprisingly, the one day has
obliterated the 29 years.

Even his strongest supporter, United States Representative Bill Pascrell Jr.,
says Mr. Merhi made insensitive remarks and then failed to minimize the damage
by undergoing the American political ritual of abject apology. But if Mr. Merhi
falls short as a politician, he has succeeded as an educator -- the public
lynching he has undergone over the past week or so has been a vivid lesson in
how little margin for error an Arab politician has.

''This has gotten so far out of control I really can't believe it,'' said Harvey
Sussman, who is Jewish and has been a friend and sometime business associate of
Mr. Merhi. ''This is a peaceful, learned man. I've known him for 20 years, and
I've never heard a single prejudiced remark. I wish he were in the U.N., because
he's the kind of person who could get respect from both sides.''

MR. MERHI's problems date to remarks he made in April 2002 before and during a
fund-raiser he organized for Mr. Pascrell. In them, while he condemned violence
''whether it's committed by a person, a group or a state,'' he spoke of the
frustrations and feelings of despair that drive suicide bombers and of the need
for both sides to listen to each other in the Middle East. Mr. Pascrell
criticized the remarks the next day.

And in the most problematic remark, after calling the 9/11 attackers
''coldblooded murderers,'' he was asked if that applied to suicide bombers. ''I
can't see the comparison,'' he said. He said this week that because he lost a
godson on 9/11 and his country was attacked, he was affected personally by one
event, so that he couldn't compare it to the other. He said he wasn't minimizing
the evil of suicide bombers and opposed all forms of terrorism.

Friends tend to accept that explanation. Others accuse him of changing his story
when it's convenient. (He was also accused of comparing Ariel Sharon to Adolf
Hitler -- something others, not he, said at a rally the same day.)

''Man does not live by words alone, despite the fact that sometimes he has to
eat them,'' Adlai E. Stevenson once said, and both thoughts apply to Mr. Merhi.
Maybe he should have quickly eaten words capable of giving such offense. But
friends, colleagues, fellow politicians, his local newspaper, people who know
him, say his life shouldn't be reduced to those words, especially when they're
small slivers of complex thoughts. (And, for what it's worth, the reporter who
wrote the Times story in no way thought Mr. Merhi was defending suicide
bombers).

Mr. Merhi may be too radioactive at this point to have much hope, but he and
other Arab leaders got to meet with Governor Corzine yesterday. Mr. Merhi says
he still hopes, by one means or another, he'll end up a freeholder. Asked the
realistic chances of that happening, he said, ''I pray.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sami Merhi, a Passaic County politician and Lebanese immigrant.
(Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


A picture caption on Monday with an article about rallies in support of
immigrants referred incorrectly in some copies to demonstrators in Los Angeles,
one of them waving a Mexican flag in the foreground. They included farm workers,
but their citizenship was unidentified; they were not known to be from Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Brooklyn: Charges In Money-Smuggling Scheme

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 160 words


Two lawyers, an 81-year-old mortgage banker and several Yemeni men were
arraigned in federal court in Brooklyn yesterday on charges that they ran an
unlicensed money transferring business that smuggled more than $5 million to
Yemen. One of the lawyers, Neil S. Kramer, 58, and four of the Yemeni men were
also charged in a loan sharking scheme that prosecutors said preyed on Yemeni
immigrants, making loans ranging from $5,000 to $100,000. The borrowers were
required to sign judgment papers with the amount, terms and due date of the loan
left blank and, in some cases, to surrender leases to their businesses, as well
as green cards and passports until the debts were paid. All of the defendants
pleaded not guilty before United States Magistrate Judge Joan M. Azrack and all
but one, Hamood Zokari, 53, were freed on bond. The arrests were the result of a
three-year investigation by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.
WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Immigrants Faces the Current Wave

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 59 words



To the Editor:

Paul Krugman wrote about the problems associated with immigration. It seems to
me that an obvious way to reduce the number of people who are willing to risk
their lives to come to this country to get work is to raise the standard of
living in Mexico.

So why not a Marshall Plan for Mexico?

Marita Poulson
American Falls, Idaho
March 28, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Open Mind on Open Borders

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL.

E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 638 words


GIVE me a pint,'' gets lost in translation -- in Britain of all places -- thanks
to the large numbers of immigrant bartenders and waiters, writes Andrew Leonard
in the ''How the World Works'' blog for Salon.

On a family trip last summer, ''Polish, Czech, Hungarian and Slovakian
waitresses and bartenders abounded,'' he writes. ''But nary a pub featured
authentic English-speakers.''

Critics of the European Union, particularly in Britain, often point to the huge
influx of Eastern European immigrants as an example of the downside of the
union's open labor markets.

But Mr. Leonard argues that the general success of the union's liberalization of
labor offers evidence that eventually the United States can open its border with
Mexico to the benefit of both countries.

''Free worker movement is a cornerstone of the European Union,'' he writes.
''It's a testament to progress that something that was utterly unthinkable 10
years ago -- free migration of workers from Eastern Europe to the West -- is now
seen as inevitable. Can we ever envision a similar thing happening with the
United States and Mexico?''

Sure, he concludes, but it will be a while. First, both Mexico's economy and
social conditions must improve greatly to avoid a mass northward migration.

But given the aging United States population and the labor shortages that will
result, opening the border may become more than desirable -- it may become
necessary.

''Both Mexico and the United States have a lot of work to do before any borders
near the Rio Grande start vanishing,'' Mr. Leonard writes. ''But cast a wistful
eye at the European Union. They're figuring out how to pull it off. Why can't
we?''

APPLE RETREAD -- Cnet News.com offers a puzzling package this week
''celebrating'' Apple Computer on its 30th anniversary.

Part hagiography, part Apple highlight reel, the package does not say anything
new, and it does not offer any fresh context to Apple's place in American
business, or that of Steve Jobs, the founder and chief executive.

''Some say there are no second acts in business,'' writes Ina Fried, ''but Jobs
& Co. are making mincemeat of that old chestnut.''

How that odd bit of alchemy was achieved is a story that has been told many,
many times. The better histories review the corporate intrigue that led to
trouble for Apple and Mr. Jobs in the 1990's. And they at least make mention of
his mercurial personality and often-antisocial behavior. Not so in this short,
prosaic account.

A discussion section asks readers, ''Which company is more successful, Apple or
Microsoft?''

It goes on to ask, ''Do you value more the one that kick-started the revolution
in 1976 with the original Apple computer and continues to innovate with products
such as the iPod, or the one that eventually sold hundreds of millions of copies
of its operating system, arguably bringing computing to the masses?''

Arguably? Microsoft's 90 percent share of the desktop market is not mentioned,
perhaps because of worries it would skew readers' opinions.

WORST. HATE BLOG. EVER. -- Matthew Neal Sharp, a programmer and blogger, has
concluded that he does not think much of the peripatetic technology journalist
and blogger Xeni Jardin (NPR, Wired News, Boingboing). So Mr. Sharp decided to
create a blog dedicated to continually dipping her virtual pigtails into the
digital inkwell. The site is replete with nasty, sarcastic invective delivered
in spot-on Comic Book Guy tone.

Ms. Jardin tried to be a good sport, posting on Boingboing that Mr. Sharp's blog
is ''a total hoot.'' But that only enraged Mr. Sharp further.

You can see the love -- er, that is, the hate -- at xenisucks.com. An
interesting side note: Mr. Sharp plays in a band, Mathgeeks, with Ms. Jardin's
colleague, Rick Karr, who reports technology and culture for NPR.   DAN MITCHELL



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Norman Leonard, 92, a Defender of Rebels and Dissenters

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 502 words


Norman Leonard, an eloquent courtroom voice for unpopular causes -- West Coast
longshoremen in the 1930's, left-wing dissenters in the 1950's, free-speech
rebels and antiwar protesters in the 1960's and 70's -- died on March 7 at a
hospital in San Francisco. He was 92.

His death was reported by the family.

Mr. Leonard, who represented the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's
Union for five decades, became nationally known with the government's efforts to
deport the union's founding president, Harry Bridges, as an undesirable
immigrant. Mr. Leonard defended him against perjury charges when Mr. Bridges, an
immigrant from Australia, was accused of having falsely denied being a Communist
at his naturalization hearing.

Widely respected for his skills as a researcher, legal writer and appellate
strategist, Mr. Leonard wrote the brief in the 1953 appeal of the Bridges case
to the Supreme Court, which overturned the union leader's conviction. The court
held that Mr. Bridges had been wrongly indicted after the statute of limitations
on the charges ran out.

During the same decade, Mr. Leonard helped defend West Coast leaders of the
Communist Party against charges, under the Smith Act, of advocating the violent
overthrow of the government. The Supreme Court reversed their convictions on
First Amendment grounds.

He also represented clients called to testify before the House Committee on
Un-American Activities, defendants charged with harboring a fugitive, and one
who was tried under the Taft-Hartley Act for serving as a union officer while
being a member of the Communist Party.

In the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Leonard argued for demonstrators protesting hiring
practices at San Francisco hotels; students arrested during the ''Free Speech''
rebellion at the University of California, Berkeley; and Vietnam-era draftees
who had refused induction into the Army.

A native of the Bronx, Mr. Leonard was born to immigrant parents who moved to
the West Coast when he was 15. Enrolling in the University of California, Los
Angeles, he majored in political science and, swayed by the Great Depression,
opted for the radical political left.

After graduating in 1934, he returned to New York to earn a master's degree in
international relations at Columbia in 1935 and a law degree in 1938. Settling
in San Francisco, he entered a law firm that focused on waterfront labor matters
and that assigned him to defend Mr. Bridges in a free-speech case.

As a law partner, he specialized in labor-related law, touching on fair labor
standards, labor-management relations, pensions, profit-sharing and workers'
compensation.

He retired from practice in 1986 as a name partner in what remains the firm of
Leonard & Carder of San Francisco and Oakland.

Mr. Leonard is survived by his wife of 68 years, Marjorie Friedman Leonard; two
sons, Stephen M., an environmental lawyer in Boston, and Eric M., a professor at
Colorado College; a brother, Dr. Alvin Leonard of Berkeley; and four
grandchildren.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Norman Leonard

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary(Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants And Their Flags

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 151 words



To the Editor:

Linda Chavez urges immigrants protesting legislation that would turn them into
felons to hide their flags and their cultural diversity. Why sacrifice to
short-sighted opinion polls one of the most important contributions of
contemporary immigrants, their ability to thrive in a tightly interconnected
global economy?

To speak Spanish or other languages and to embrace a different flag is a bold
statement against thinly disguised racist views that try to define immigration
as a cultural threat.

And it is also an act of love: if there is any reform immigrants would like to
see, it is one that would allow them to go back every year to see the families
they work so hard for, and to return to their jobs here without risking their
lives in the desert. That is nothing to be ashamed of.

Pablo Piccato
New York, March 30, 2006

The writer is an associate professor of history at Columbia University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants And Their Flags

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 185 words



To the Editor:

Linda Chavez voiced my own misgivings about the pro-immigration rallies taking
place around the country (''American Dreams, Foreign Flags,'' Op-Ed, March 30).

As an immigration attorney, I strongly support a reform package that would both
protect our borders and accommodate hard-working prospective citizens. It is,
after all, economics that mandates a more lenient approach to immigration, not
the idealized mythology of Emma Lazarus.

However, Ms. Chavez points out a troubling aspect of the rallies when she notes
that the flags of foreign nations far outweigh the Stars and Stripes.

People who are already skeptical about this country's ability to assimilate
large groups of aliens (most of whom do not speak English) will only become more
hardened in their opposition to positive immigration reform if they see that the
people knocking at our door identify more strongly with their homelands than
with the United States.

It is in the best interests of those hopeful residents to wrap themselves in our
flag if they want a truly warm welcome.

Christine M. Flowers
Philadelphia, March 30, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Out of Town's Sight, Still on the County's Mind

BYLINE: By DEBRA WEST

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words


WHEN the Village of Mamaroneck shut down its day-laborer hiring site in
February, village leaders said the closure was temporary. The site would reopen
April 1 if neighboring communities, or the county, agreed on an alternative
hiring site and shared costs for it.

This would relieve some of the congestion at Columbus Park, where, for years
now, crowds of immigrant men have gathered each morning to wait for contractors
to drive up and hire them.

Deputy Mayor William J. Paonessa said his village needed help with the problem
-- which he deemed of regional if not national significance. The county agreed
(and Mr. Paonessa's view has since been borne out by the noisy debate in
Washington over immigration and border security). Officials called emergency
sessions, municipal leaders met to consider alternative hiring sites, religious
leaders pitched in with ideas and fund-raisers.

Some alternative sites were proposed. The county offered its sewage treatment
plant on Boston Post Road, across from the Hispanic Resource Center of
Mamaroneck and Larchmont.

But now that April is here, Mayor Philip J. Trifiletti of Mamaroneck has changed
his mind. He says that neither the original site nor the proposed alternative
site is needed anymore. At a raucous meeting last Monday, the village board
voted, 4 to 1, against the county's proposal. The whole problem, Mr. Trifiletti
insisted, has been resolved.

A strong police presence along Mamaroneck Avenue, enforcing laws already on the
books -- aggressively ticketing the day laborers and the contractors who hire
them -- has driven the day-laborer trade out of the village, Mr. Trifiletti
said.

''As far as I'm concerned we have the situation under control,'' he said in a
phone interview after the meeting. ''Everything is working well now. Right now
there are 15 to 20 laborers a day at the edge of the park soliciting work. The
reason for the drop was that people who were coming from elsewhere stopped
coming and the numbers dropped to where they were 40 years ago.''

Yet according to accounts of the debate on Monday night, Mr. Trifiletti's
assessment is not unanimously shared. Thomas A. Murphy, the lone trustee who
voted in favor of the county's hiring-site proposal, said the only thing the
shutdown had accomplished was to turn a quiet village into something of a police
state.

''They chased the guys out of the park,'' said Mr. Murphy, the board's only
Democrat, ''and now they are up and down Mamaroneck Avenue. The police have set
up checkpoints at either end of Mamaroneck Avenue. There are four to six
policemen there every morning, stopping every van and truck that goes through.
It brings the traffic down to one lane in the morning. It's a pain, and it's not
solving the problem.''

Last week alone, the village issued 94 traffic tickets to commercial vehicles,
Mr. Trifiletti said, noting quickly that the village was only enforcing the law.

''What is this costing?'' Mr. Murphy said. ''How long are they going to continue
it, and what's going to happen when they stop?'' He noted that the village board
had not discussed any of those questions. ''Don't you think they will come right
back? It's a question of supply and demand.''

Mr. Murphy said the village board had voted to close the Columbus Park site
because the developers of a condominium complex being built across the street
made it clear that they think they would be unable to sell their expensive
apartments overlooking such a spot.

''Obviously we cannot build a luxury condo until the day workers have another
place to wait around,'' John Lese, a representative of Park View Condominiums,
wrote in a memo dated February 2004, as reported by The Journal News.

Mr. Trifiletti denied that the developer's request had been a factor in the
board's decision. He said the board had acted on complaints from many local
residents, who objected to having hundreds of men hanging around in a village
park.

But whatever the underlying reasons for the board's action, it is clear that the
village's call for neighborly cooperation back in February opened a Pandora's
box. For one thing, members of the local clergy raised $2,000 for a study to
find out who the day village's laborers are, what countries they hail from,
where they presently live and where they find work.

For another, Valerie O'Keefe, supervisor of the Town of Mamaroneck, said she and
Kenneth M. Bialo, the mayor of Larchmont, had met with Village of Mamaroneck
leaders, as well as clergy from the three municipalities. She said she was
surprised that the village turned down the treatment-plant site without even
discussing the plan with the county and seeing if it could be modified.

The county government says such discussions are still an option. ''We are ready
to work with the mayor on any concerns he has,'' Susan Tolchin, chief adviser to
Andrew Spano, the county executive, said on Tuesday. ''We have not heard
anything back from the mayor.''

One man who isn't waiting to hear back any longer is Cesar Perales, president of
the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, a pan-Latino civil rights
organization. Mr. Perales, who says he believes the village is violating the
immigrants' civil rights, met with day laborers in Mamaroneck this week for the
second time to prepare a lawsuit.

He has had success with similar suits. In 2004, the Borough of Freehold, N.J.,
settled a case he brought after the borough closed its day laborer hiring site
and began issuing loitering violations to the men who continued to gather there
looking for work.

And last year, Mr. Perales and his organization won a suit against the Town of
Brookhaven on Long Island. In that case, a federal judge ruled that town
officials violated the civil rights of Hispanic immigrants by raiding
overcrowded housing and evicting tenants without any notice.

''When they try to stand on a sidewalk, they are surrounded by police and
threatened with tickets,'' Mr. Perales said of the Village of Mamaroneck's
actions. ''If they even stop on a corner, they are told they must keep moving.
The village thinks it has accomplished some sort of ethnic cleansing, but they
are not allowing day laborers to engage in free speech. They are interfering
with their ability to talk with employers about getting work. And that is
against the law.''

Mr. Trifiletti countered that the village was not violating anyone's rights.

''We get threats from the A.C.L.U. and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense Fund,'' he
said. ''What we are doing is applying the laws of our village and protecting the
rights of all of our residents.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: With a former pickup site near Columbus Park off limits, some
day laborers have shifted to a spot across the street. (Photo by Alan Zale for
The New York Times)(pg. 1)
From left: The police are in evidence along Mamaroneck Avenue, where day
laborers often gather looking to be hired
construction across the street from the Columbus Park pickup site, at Park View
Condominiums, a luxury property whose developer has made it clear that laborers'
presence would inhibit sales
 looking for work on Jefferson Avenue near the park. (Photographs by Alan Zale
for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

9/11 Detainees Describe Abuse Involving Dogs

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words


The photograph, seen worldwide, is one of the defining images from Abu Ghraib: a
dog strains at its leash, lunging at a terrified prisoner in an orange jumpsuit.
One United States military dog handler was recently convicted of abusing
detainees at Abu Ghraib, the prison in Iraq, and the court-martial of another is
to start in May.

But for Ibrahim Turkmen and Akhil Sachdeva, the image evokes something closer to
home: the dogs used inside the Passaic County Jail in New Jersey. The two men,
plaintiffs in a pending class-action lawsuit known as Turkmen v. Ashcroft, were
among hundreds of immigrant detainees held in the Passaic jail for months after
9/11 before they were cleared of links to terrorism and deported on visa
violations.

Until now, lawsuits brought by former detainees against top American officials
have focused attention on the maximum security unit of a federal detention
center in Brooklyn where the Justice Department's inspector general found
widespread abuse. But today in Toronto, as Mr. Sachdeva, a Canadian citizen born
in India, gives his first deposition for the class-action lawsuit, the spotlight
will shift to the New Jersey jail.

There, about 400 of the 762 mainly Muslim detainees rounded up in the United
States after 9/11 were held. The lawsuit charges that the detainees' confinement
was arbitrary, illegally based on their religion or national origin, and that
guards routinely terrorized them with aggressive dogs.

In November 2004, federal officials who oversee the detention of immigrants
facing deportation said they would no longer send detainees to jails that used
dogs to patrol inside. That decision by the Department of Homeland Security came
a day after National Public Radio broadcast an investigative report saying that
the dogs had been used over a three-year period to intimidate, attack and, in at
least two cases, bite immigrant detainees in the Passaic County Jail.

''To hear about the use of dogs in this way within the United States is truly
shocking,'' said Jonathan Turley, a professor of national security and
constitutional law at George Washington University, who is not involved in the
case. ''But Abu Ghraib didn't spring from the head of Zeus.''

Mr. Turley, an expert in prison law, said in an interview on Friday that the use
of the dogs to frighten detainees in the New Jersey jail underscored ''the
trickle-down effect'' of the disregard for immigrants' civil rights that top
government officials showed after 9/11. ''It trickled down through military
intelligence, through low-level personnel and to sheriffs,'' he said. ''Suddenly
people who were predisposed to the use of such harsh measures thought they had
license to use them, and 9/11 gave them a great appetite.''

While dozens of jails and prisons that house federal immigrant detainees use
dogs, largely to search for drugs, only seven used them to control prisoners.
Jail officials defended the dog patrols, which were used before 9/11 and
continue for control of other inmates. Bill Maer, a spokesman for the Passaic
County sheriff, Jerry Speziale, denied that the post-9/11 detainees had been
mistreated and said that the dog teams are used ''strictly for security and
contraband detection purposes'' and ''act in a professional manner when
interacting with inmates.''

But the dogs were described as part of a nightmarish form of psychological
torture by the two plaintiffs, who spoke in separate telephone interviews last
week -- Mr. Turkmen from Konia, Turkey, and Mr. Sachdeva from Toronto.

Two or three times a week, they said, often around 3 a.m. when the detainees
were fast asleep in dormitory cells housing about 50 men, the electronic doors
would open and 10 to 20 officers would rush in with four to six unmuzzled,
barking dogs on leashes. The dogs, mostly German shepherds, would strain to
within inches of the detainees' faces, they said.

''The guards would barely be able to hold the dogs back,'' said Mr. Turkmen, who
could not come for his scheduled deposition because he was denied a visa by the
Canadian government, without explanation. ''The day of judgment would begin for
me -- that's what it would feel like.''

Mr. Sachdeva said that he found himself trembling uncontrollably, and that some
detainees started to cry. ''The guards who were holding the dogs used to always
laugh,'' he recalled. ''There were like four or five dogs, barking, terrorizing,
and the officers shouting: 'Get up! Raise your hands! Against the wall!' One
time the dog was so close his tongue touched me.''

It was worst, they said, for detainees who, like Mr. Turkmen, lacked English to
understand the officers. Once, Mr. Sachdeva said, a Pakistani man of 51 who did
not speak a word of English was beaten bloody by guards because he had stayed on
his bed after twice being ordered off.

. Government officials will not discuss the lawsuit, brought in 2002 by the
Center for Constitutional Rights. But when the Justice Department's inspector
general criticized the post-9/11 detentions of immigrants in a scathing 2003
report, John Ashcroft, then the attorney general, said he had ''no apologies''
for measures taken to protect the public.

Nevertheless, after the inspector general's report, ''there were changes made
and new detention standards issued nationwide,'' said Dean Boyd, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of Homeland Security.

The report found conditions at Passaic considerably less harsh than those at the
Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn, where solitary confinement was the
norm and beatings of shackled detainees were caught on videotape. But it
criticized Passaic for mingling immigrant detainees with felons, and it said
that immigration officials had failed to properly monitor the jail and to
investigate complaints of abuse.

It told of a detainee with a black eye and a limp who told investigators that he
had been assaulted by guards and put in an isolation cell, where guards brought
a dog. He said the guards told him ''that if he did not get out of bed by the
next day, they were going to 'let the dog loose.' ''

The report criticized the way federal authorities swept up immigrants after 9/11
as ''indiscriminate and haphazard.''

Mr. Turkmen, who has four daughters, now 7 to 19, had overstayed a tourist visa
to work at a gas station in West Babylon, N.Y., when federal agents came to his
apartment. Though an immigration judge agreed to let him leave voluntarily, a
standard option in minor immigration violations, he was held for four months
more.

Two years after his return to Turkey, he said, he saw a news report about Abu
Ghraib and the dogs. ''I told my children that this exact form of torture is
what I experienced,'' he said through a translator. ''All my children were
completely shocked.''

Mr. Sachdeva, who is Hindu, had returned to the United States to complete his
divorce from an American woman who owned a gas station in Port Washington, N.Y.,
when F.B.I agents came there looking for someone else.

''At this point I have no faith in the system,'' said Mr. Sachdeva, 34, who said
he was now self-employed as a metals trader because his arrest and deportation
made it impossible to get a job. ''I'm glad at least I can speak what really
happened.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Akhil Sachdeva, detained after 9/11, is giving a deposition in
a lawsuit challenging his detention. (Photo by Steve Payne for The New York
Times)(pg. B3)
 Ibrahim Turkmen, arrested after Sept. 11 because of an expired tourist visa,
spent four months in the Passaic County Jail, where, he said, dogs were used to
scare prisoners. (Photo by Yoray Liberman/Getty Images, for The New York
Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Top Officials Told to Testify In Muslims' Suit

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words


A federal judge in Brooklyn ruled yesterday that former Attorney General John
Ashcroft, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other top
government officials will have to answer questions under oath in a lawsuit that
accuses them of personally conspiring to violate the rights of Muslim immigrants
held in a federal detention center in Brooklyn after 9/11.

The officials had sought to have the lawsuit dismissed without testimony,
arguing in part that they had governmental immunity from its claims, that the
court lacked jurisdiction because they live outside New York State, and that the
Sept. 11 attacks created ''special factors'' outweighing the plaintiffs' right
to sue for damages for constitutional violations.

But the judge, John Gleeson, of the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of New York, rejected those arguments, allowing the case to proceed --
and opening the door to depositions of Mr. Ashcroft and the F.B.I. director,
Robert S. Mueller III, by lawyers for the two plaintiffs: Ehab Elmaghraby, an
Egyptian immigrant who ran a restaurant in Times Square, and Javaid Iqbal, a
Pakistani immigrant whose Long Island customers knew him as ''the cable guy.''

The lawsuit charges that, solely because of their race, religion or national
origin, the two men were physically abused and deprived of due process while
being detained for more than eight months in the harsh maximum-security unit of
the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn.

The men, who eventually pleaded guilty to minor criminal charges unrelated to
terrorism and were deported, charged that they were repeatedly slammed into
walls and dragged across the floor while shackled and manacled.

They said they were kicked and punched until they bled, cursed as ''terrorists''
and ''Muslim bastards,'' and subjected to multiple unnecessary body-cavity
searches, including one in which correction officers inserted a flashlight into
Mr. Elmaghraby's rectum, making him bleed.

''Our nation's unique and complex law enforcement and security challenges in the
wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks do not warrant the elimination of remedies
for the constitutional violations alleged here,'' Judge Gleeson wrote in his
decision.

Charles Miller, a spokesman for the United States Attorney's office, said the
ruling was under review. ''The government has made no determination yet as to
what the government's next step will be,'' he said.

The decision was hailed as significant by the plaintiffs' lawyers, Alexander A.
Reinert, of Koob & Magoolaghan, and Haeyoung Yoon, of the Urban Justice Center.

It was also celebrated by lawyers at the Center for Constitutional Rights, which
brought a companion lawsuit as a class action on behalf of other immigrant
detainees in 2002. The government's motion to dismiss that suit, using many of
the same arguments, is pending before the same judge.

''The fact that Judge Gleeson ruled that this case can keep Ashcroft on the hook
--that would never happen in a regular prison-abuse case,'' said Rachel
Meeropol, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights. ''The judge
understood that this isn't just a case about individuals being abused in
detention. These are people who were singled out according to a policy created
on the highest levels of government.''

Judge Gleeson cited a scathing 2003 report by the Justice Department's inspector
general that found widespread abuse of detainees at the Brooklyn center.

The report said that Mr. Ashcroft's policy was to hold detainees on any legal
pretext until the F.B.I. cleared them, even though such clearances took months
and many had been picked up by chance, not because they were legitimate
terrorism suspects.

''The post-Sept. 11 context provides support for the plaintiffs' assertions that
defendants were involved in creating and/or implementing the detention policy
under which plaintiffs were confined without due process,'' the judge wrote.

In effect, the judge gave the plaintiffs an opportunity to try to establish the
personal involvement of Mr. Ashcroft and other high-ranking defendants through
discovery, rather than simply accepting the defense's argument of immunity at
this early stage of the litigation.

The ''qualified immunity'' that shields government officials ''will not allow
the attorney general to carry out his national security functions wholly free
from concern for his personal liability,'' Judge Gleeson wrote, quoting a
Supreme Court decision that involved then-Attorney General John N. Mitchell's
unauthorized wiretap of a radical group. ''He may on occasion have to pause to
consider whether a proposed course of action can be squared with the
Constitution and laws of the United States.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 2, 2005 Sunday
                                 Early Edition

In Georgia, Immigrant Recalls Night of Death and Violence

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: TIFTON, Ga., Oct. 1


Efrain Navarro woke at 1:30 a.m. Friday to the sound of loud groans, as if
someone were hurt.

Then, listening through his bedroom door in the dark, he heard men inside his
mobile home speaking English -- an unusual sound, given that he lived with two
roommates who speak Spanish.

Mr. Navarro sprinted through the darkness for the front door, barely seeing the
outline of one of his roommates sprawled on the floor. After hearing two
gunshots, he said, he hid in his truck until daylight.

That is when Mr. Navarro and residents of three nearby trailer parks discovered
shockingly similar crimes. Five people, including one of Mr. Navarro's
roommates, had been killed in their trailers. Six more were wounded, one
critically.

The dead were all Mexican immigrants. All lived in mobile homes in Tift County
and neighboring Colquitt County, rural areas 180 miles south of Atlanta where
migrant workers toil on cotton and peanut farms. Some of the victims were beaten
with an aluminum baseball bat found at one of the scenes, and at least one
victim was shot, the police said.

Investigators said two suspects were being sought.

All but one of the dead belonged to the same family, said Francisco Dominguez,
who says his uncle and a cousin were killed in their trailer on the outskirts of
Tifton.

''He came here to work and here is where he died,'' Mr. Dominguez said of his
uncle, who moved to the United States last year. ''He should have gone out to
build chicken houses this morning.''

Sheriff Al Whittington of Colquitt County emphasized that the attacks did not
appear to be hate crimes. Many immigrants here have come illegally and therefore
cannot open bank accounts, which means they tend to carry a lot of cash or keep
it in their homes.

''That makes them an easy prey,'' Sheriff Whittington said. ''I don't think it
has anything to do with race or hate.''

He said there had been other robberies of immigrants in the past two weeks,
including some in neighboring Cook County.

Mr. Navarro, a Mexican immigrant who spoke through a translator, said he never
saw the people who broke into his home.

''I heard them speaking in English, so I couldn't understand anything,'' he
said. ''I opened the door and looked both ways and didn't see anything, so I ran
out as fast as I could.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Investigators in Tifton, Ga., collected evidence Friday after
five men were killed and six injured in what appeared to be a string of
robberies. (Photo by Walter Petruska/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 10, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Front Line in Day Laborer Battle Runs Right Outside Home Depot

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1428 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.


The Home Depot became the nation's largest home improvement chain by figuring
out how to make hardware friendly to consumers and how to put everything from
plumbing fixtures to petunias under one roof.

But the company is facing a knotty problem figuring out where to put one
important part of the home-improvement business: the dozens of day laborers who
gather outside its stores here and across the nation.

Morning after morning in city after city, contractors as well as homeowners
needing an extra hand or two drive up to a Home Depot and hire laborers to paint
walls, nail down roofing or trim branches, usually for $8 to $10 an hour. Not
only has this caused friction between the stores and neighboring businesses and
homeowners who do not want the men around, but it has also thrust the company
into the nationwide debate about what to do about these workers, the majority of
them illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

In Illinois, several Hispanic groups are angry with the company because 40 day
laborers have been arrested in recent months, accused of criminal trespassing at
a Home Depot in Cicero. One Hispanic shopper was arrested by mistake.

In California, a group called Save Our State has held protests at numerous Home
Depots, asserting that the company has aided illegal immigration. But in Los
Angeles, a city councilman has proposed requiring all new large home-improvement
stores to build shelters that would provide day laborers with basic amenities
like toilets and drinking water.

Here, in Austin, an immigrants' rights group is pressing Home Depot to stop
threatening day laborers with fines and arrest and to allow a grassy lot behind
one store to be used as a place for them to congregate.

But the company is not eager to see its parking lots filled with day laborers.

''The existence of this issue is one that's beyond the Home Depot's control,''
said David Sandor, a spokesman for the company, which has about 1,700 stores
nationwide. ''Like many businesses, we have a policy of nonsolicitation of our
stores by individuals and organizations who aren't affiliated with our company.
The reason for that is really simple -- our customers tell us they want a
shopping experience that's easy and comfortable.''

At the glimmer of dawn one recent morning here in Austin, 30 men gathered
outside the Home Depot at St. John's Avenue and Interstate 35, with a few men on
the edge of the parking lot and two dozen on the sidewalk across the street.
Suddenly Ernest Pedraza, an Austin police lieutenant who was moonlighting as a
Home Depot security guard, emerged from the store and shooed a few men from the
parking lot, warning that they faced fines and possible arrest for trespassing.
They moved across the street, where they joined the others, who lined the
sidewalk in small clusters for 80 yards.

''They whistle at 12-and 13-year-old girls on the way to school,'' Mr. Pedraza
said. ''They urinate in back of the store. They throw trash on the sidewalk.
Maybe it's just a few of the guys who do it, but it upsets a lot of the
neighbors.''

Steve Felgate, manager of the ABC Supply roofing store across the street, said
he had lost customers because of the men. ''They don't like these guys running
up to them when they drive up to my store,'' he said.

Edwin Muguia, a 27-year-old immigrant from Nicaragua who stands outside the Home
Depot six days a week, said all he wanted was to work. ''They're violating our
rights by kicking us away,'' he said. ''In the United States, there aren't other
opportunities for us but to be a day laborer.''

The nation has more than 100,000 day laborers, said Abel Valenzuela Jr., a
professor of urban studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, who is
considered the foremost academic expert on day laborers. Professor Valenzuela
attributes the large number to the surge in illegal immigration in recent years,
the growth in part-time, contingent labor and the explosion in the
home-improvement business, with many do-it-yourselfers concluding they cannot do
it without one or two helpers.

Professor Valenzuela estimates that there are at least 400 day-labor hiring
sites nationwide, adding, ''I'd say a significant number are Home Depots; not a
majority, but a significant number.''

Experts on day labor said they knew of only a handful of Lowe's stores -- the
No. 2 home improvement retailer -- where workers congregate. Lowe's attracts far
fewer day laborers, these experts said, because Home Depot is more popular with
contractors.

That so many day laborers flock to Home Depots seems like nothing more than the
law of supply and demand, with the workers concluding that to find home
improvement work, they should go to the No. 1 home improvement store.

But Mr. Sandor, the company spokesman, said that many customers complain about
day laborers swarming around their cars, seeking work. Immigrant advocates say
Home Depot has appeared to grow sterner about its nonsolicitation policy -- to
the frustration of Donald Quintanilla, a 35-year-old Nicaraguan immigrant who
was arrested on Aug. 12 in Cicero.

''Home Depot and the police treated me like a criminal, like I was committing a
crime,'' said Mr. Quintanilla, who spent four hours in jail but was not fined.
''All I was doing was looking for work.''

In Austin, some homeowners and businesses say Home Depot should not foist its
problems upon others by chasing the workers away, saying that the company should
set aside part of its property for the laborers so that the daily tango between
contractors and workers does not snarl the sidewalks and streets.

''I don't see what people are so bothered about -- they're just looking for
work,'' said Sabina Travino, a child care worker who lives three blocks from the
store. ''It's better to look for work than to rob or make trouble. There are
bigger problems in the neighborhood, like drugs and prostitution.''

Pablo Alvarado, national coordinator of the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network, said the company's nonsolicitation policy was not working.

''Even if the security guards kick the workers out, what happens is the
customers, when they want to hire workers, still park inside the store's parking
lot and call the workers to them,'' Mr. Alvarado said. ''Home Depot has to
assume its responsibilities, because whether they like it or not, they're an
incentive for workers to congregate.''

Under pressure from various communities in California, Home Depot has helped
finance shelters and sites where laborers can gather at or near several of its
stores, including in Woodland Hills, Monrovia and Glendale. The City of Burbank
had required the company to build a shelter as a condition of opening a store,
but then put the plan on hold because many residents complained that the city
was catering to illegal immigrants.

''Home Depot is aiding and abetting illegal aliens as far as we're concerned,''
said Joseph Turner, director of Save Our State, a group based in Ventura,
Calif., that seeks more aggressive action against illegal immigration.

Mr. Turner said the company often seemed happy to give in to pressure to finance
adjoining hiring centers that are run by outside groups.

''They have a vested interest in keeping day laborers around because contractors
use the store as one-stop shopping to obtain their materials and their
workers,'' he said.

Mr. Sandor said that of Home Depot's 1,700 stores, there were only 6 where local
governments required the company to help build or finance accommodations for day
laborers.

Julien Ross, coordinator of the Central Texas Immigrant Workers' Rights
Center,said Home Depot should ''create a safe and dignified space adjacent to
its store'' at St. John's Avenue.

''This will not eliminate all the problems, but it will go far to minimize
them,'' Mr. Ross said.

Robert Flocke, a spokesman for the Travis County Health and Human Services
Department, which oversees Austin, said that creating a special workers' site at
that Home Depot would be unnecessary because there is already a county-run day
laborers' hiring hall a mile away. But many workers shun that site because they
say not enough contractors go there.

Mr. Sandor said Home Depot was reluctant to donate or designate part of its
sites for day laborers.

''In any other case, we maintain our strict policy against solicitation,'' he
said. ''I think community and local governments need to lead in terms of
responding to the larger issues. We are trying to operate a business, please our
customers and be a good community partner.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laborers spoke with a contractor parked across the street from
a Home Depot in Austin, Tex. Left, Cristina Tzintzun and Edwin Muguia ask
Joaquin Ortiz to support laborers in a dispute with that Home Depot.
(Photographs by Misty Keasler for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 11, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Divorce Lawyers Stay Busy Serving Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Breakups Without Borders; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words


In the jazzy montage of commercial signs along the immigrant spine of Roosevelt
Avenue in Jackson Heights, Queens, two Spanish words seem to go hand in hand:
inmigracion and divorcios.

That is because the underside of a newcomer's American dream is often the
breakup of a marriage and family back home. Tens of thousands of married
immigrants tearfully kiss their spouses and children farewell and sneak across
borders or fly in on tourist visas they will probably let lapse, to secure
gritty jobs with wages that go much further back home.

Stays that some thought would last a year or two stretch to 5 and 10 years or
longer as illegal immigrants come to realize that making the journey home might
mean never returning to the United States. After a time, their spouses and
family back home become strangers, or they succumb to loneliness and meet other
lovers. Some seek out citizens of the opposite sex for sham marriages that they
hope will lead to the brass ring of legal residency. And then there are the
immigrants, legal or not, who end up in legitimate marriages here that cannot
withstand the isolation and bewilderment that come with being in an unfamiliar
country.

All of these people provide more than enough business for the dozen or more
divorce lawyers or paralegals along the neighborhood's clamorous, el-shadowed
thoroughfare that seems to have been patched together to cater to immigrant
needs.

''The human race is a very optimistic race,'' said Jesus J. Pena, one of the
busiest lawyers along the strip, whose office there handles 10 divorces a week.
''Everyone thinks they come to the United States and will make enough money to
build a house and educate their kids and then they will go back,'' he said.
''The first year they don't make enough money. The second year they don't make
enough money. After 15 years, they're still not making enough money and they're
still here. You may find a girlfriend, and that's when you need a divorce.''

A compact man with dark plush eyebrows and silver sideburns, Mr. Pena has seen
so many quirky divorce cases that he has come to adopt a world-weary stance
toward the parade of human schemes and illusions. He sighs at how often men with
wives and children come here illegally, risking breaking up their families back
home.

Mr. Pena, 67, who arrived here alone as a 24-year-old from Castro's Cuba, runs
four offices in New York and New Jersey that employ 25 lawyers in all; he
estimates that his offices represent a total of 25,000 clients in divorce,
deportation, malpractice, accident and criminal cases. He works out of the
second floor of a squat two-story building that fairly touches the elevated
train on Roosevelt Avenue. A blue awning trumpeting his name and who you will
find in his office -- ''Abogados'' -- wraps around the roof. For divorces, he
charges $900.

Rodolfo Rodriguez, a 37-year-old illegal Mexican immigrant who walked into Mr.
Pena's office three months ago, is in many ways a typical divorce client. Five
years ago, Mr. Rodriguez was earning $129 a week at a Nestle yogurt plant in the
Tlaxcala area east of Mexico City. He hugged his wife and six children goodbye
and, with the help of a smuggler to whom he paid $1,500, he walked across the
border and made his way to New York.

He settled in the Bronx, and found work as a packer at a Manhattan meat market,
a job that pays $400 a week. Half of his earnings go to his family in Tlaxcala.
Last year his wife divorced him in Tlaxcala on the grounds of abandonment.

''I was depressed, because when I came to this country, I thought I was doing
the right thing by helping my family financially,'' said Mr. Rodriguez, a
round-faced man with a black mustache and doleful brown eyes. He now has a
Puerto Rican girlfriend but still sends money home.

Although it is possible for immigrants to get a divorce in New York State, some
who come into the country choose to get their divorces in foreign courts. Fanny
Villacres, a licensed lawyer in Ecuador and a paralegal on 37th Avenue in
Jackson Heights, represents the Ecuadorean public defender's office here in a
variety of matters, including divorce. She said that Ecuadorean law allows for a
divorcio tacito, or an implicit divorce, for cases where the spouses have lived
apart for three years.

The demand for divorce is often so urgent that Ms. Villacres and other lawyers
tell of a shadowy phenomenon known as divorcio al vapor -- where a man eager to
shed a wife files for divorce here and sends a summons to his native country
that is delivered to an address where his wife does not live. The claim is made
that the spouse could not be located.

In some cases, the need for a quick divorce stems from the prospect of marrying
a citizen, but this can involve deception, too. Ms. Villacres said she once had
two Ecuadorean clients -- brothers who were both bakery workers -- who married
the same Puerto Rican woman hoping to get green cards. They each paid the woman
$7,000, but she vanished.

''I had to do divorces for both of them,'' she said. ''It was sad, because they
were young people.''

But if her client is illegally here, even marrying an American citizen does not
mean automatic access to a green card, she said. ''You can do it, but you get
nothing even if you marry the daughter of Mr. Bush,'' she said. Nevertheless,
other lawyers like Mr. Pena said that as a practical matter they have found that
immigration investigators seldom bother illegal immigrants who have American
spouses and stay out of trouble.

For those immigrants who do marry here, and forge relationships that do not
solely exist on paper, long-distance separation is not an issue. But the
pressures of immigration -- the vulnerability of a spouse who is not a citizen,
the isolation from family -- can doom a relationship. In some cases, the
breakups are accompanied by violent abuse.

Dorchen A. Leidholdt, director of the legal center at Sanctuary for Families, a
citywide organization that provides shelter and other services for female
victims, said 85 percent of her clients were immigrants. Because of their
uncertain status, they often endure beatings or sexual humiliation, she said.

Du-Juan Zhang, 24, from Guangdong Province, came here in May 2005 on a fiance
visa to marry a Queens dentist, an American citizen who had met her on trips to
China. It was on their wedding night in June that he first hit her, she said.
Ms. Zhang, who used a nickname as her first name to disguise her identity, said
her husband kept her from immersing herself in American culture. He would not
tell her how to ride the subway or give her money for shopping. When she asked
to take English classes, he accused her of seeking to meet other men. When she
suggested that she work in his clinic, he hurled a heavy backpack at her.

''I was really scared,'' said Ms. Zhang, who is staying at a battered women's
shelter. ''My husband is rich, and he's a citizen of America. I'm an immigrant
from China. I don't have any money. I don't have any relatives here.''

In mid-July, she said, he punched her in the stomach with a closed fist and
swatted her with a shoe. In pain, she had a friend call the police, who took her
to a hospital and arrested her husband. He now faces prosecution in Queens. But
Ms. Zhang is still worried because she is here alone and now is illegal to boot,
because her visa has expired and her husband has refused to file the paperwork
that would give her a conditional green card as his spouse. However, Ms.
Leidholdt is petitioning to get Ms. Zhang residency as a battered woman who made
a good-faith marriage.

Immigration has left a bitter taste for those who have lost families. Mr.
Rodriguez, the Mexican meat packer, said he would advise countrymen to stay
home.

''If you have something valuable such as a family, I would tell them not to
come,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many signs like this one in Jackson Heights advertise two
popular legal services: immigration and divorce.
Jesus J. Pena, right, a lawyer, interviewing a divorce client, Rodolfo
Rodriguez, at his office in Jackson Heights, Queens. (Photographs by Nicole
Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Dorchen Leidholdt, who helps battered women, and Scarlett Yi-Jen Chang, an
interpreter, right, with a client. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York
Times)(pg. B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 14, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Tearful Story of a Girl Left Behind Isn't Sad Enough to Earn a Visa

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; A Contest of Suffering, With
the U.S. as a Prize; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words


At 12, his childhood already cut short by his mother's heroin addiction, Alex
Krylov left Ukraine with his grandmother and started life anew in Brooklyn. Five
years later, the young refugee is an A student at Edward R. Murrow High School.

But American opportunity has come at a price: Alex's little sister, Raisa
Skakun, was left behind in Odessa, in an orphanage for destitute Jewish
children. Now nearly 12 herself, Raisa faces a wait of five more years under the
regular visa process. So Alex and their grandmother have petitioned immigration
officials to bring her here under an old but little-known provision called
''humanitarian parole.'' So far they have failed.

''Every time I call her, she asks, 'Grandmother, when are you going to take me
to America?''' the grandmother, Larisa Bebeshko, said in Russian last week as
Alex translated her words. ''I just give the phone to Alex, because I can't talk
to her -- I just start crying.''

Alex is more than a big brother to Raisa, the baby he diapered, fed and rocked
when he was 7 or 8. Yet he cannot explain to her what he does not understand
himself.

The story of immigrants coming to the United States has always been filled with
heartbreak -- asylum seekers facing torture at home; quotas excluding the
deserving; the sick seeking care they will never find. ''Humanitarian parole''
holds out another option, the possibility of case-by-case compassion at the
discretion of the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, a chance to
come when other measures fail or take an entire childhood to yield results.

But for those rejected, it can be especially painful -- another door, sometimes
the last door, shut. An exceptional measure limited to ''urgent humanitarian
reasons'' or ''significant public benefit,'' humanitarian parole operates as a
mysterious contest of human suffering, lawyers and scholars say, seeming to give
extra points for narrative novelty or news media buzz.

Of 6,718 requests for humanitarian parole received by the government since
January 2000, officials say, 5,253 were rejected and 1,465 approved.

A news database search of the last two years found cases that had been denied
before news accounts brought intervention by Congressional representatives. Some
involved pleas for temporary admission for medical reasons, like the Ecuadorean
mother of a 6-year-old Bronx boy hit by a car and in a coma, who was at first
refused a visa to come to her son's bedside, or the case of Federico Rodriguez,
dying of kidney-related complications in New York, whose sister in El Salvador
was at first denied a visa to come donate her kidney.

Other applicants, like Raisa, who has been formally adopted by her grandmother,
were eligible to join close relatives in the United States for good. But because
of backlogs, they were living out a damaging childhood.

In such a case last spring, a 5-year-old boy stuck since birth in an African
refugee camp won humanitarian parole to join his family in Minnesota after a
senator learned that his father, a Liberian refugee in the National Guard, faced
deployment to Iraq.

Michael W. Gilhooley, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, where
decisions are delegated, said that he could not discuss individual cases but
that each one was made independently by two officers and reviewed by a
supervisor. He flatly denied that public attention had an effect. ''This is
extraordinary relief based on emergent circumstance,'' he said, ''not based on
whether the case is high profile or is in the media.''

Some successful applicants have had exceptional sponsors, like the two Iraqi
teenagers ''adopted'' by Army units as mascots. One, who had turned in his
father as an insurgent, was allowed to follow his buddies back to the military
base at Fort Carson, Colo., last year, according to an Associated Press account.
The other was welcomed with public fanfare to Boys Town, the Nebraska
institution for troubled youths.

Raisa, in the Ukrainian orphanage, had no trump cards. ''Although the facts as
presented are certainly unfortunate, it has been determined after careful review
that a favorable exercise of the secretary's discretionary authority is not
warranted,'' said the form letter sent on Sept. 17, 2004, and again last Jan.
31, after a re-application. The denials astonished Irina Matiychenko, a lawyer
for the nonprofit New York Legal Assistance Group who is handling the case.
Earlier, she said, she won humanitarian parole for two other Ukrainian children
in similar circumstances.

Robert J.C. Young, who teaches cultural studies at New York University, said
Raisa's case fitted a pattern seen internationally in asylum cases.
''Heart-rending and entirely plausible stories were recounted by the plaintiffs
and rejected with the remark, 'It's too typical,''' he said. ''By the third
time, it's no longer exceptional.'' Assessors who must limit approvals face an
impossible situation, he added, and selection ''turns into almost a
literary-critical criterion of originality.''

Yet as told by Alex and Ms. Bebeshko in a small apartment that they share in a
Coney Island housing project, Raisa's story offers raw material to tempt a
Dostoevsky or a Dickens.

She was born Nov. 14, 1993, into a family caught in the undertow as the Soviet
Union foundered. Alex's father long gone, his young mother, Natalia, remarried a
man who shared her addiction, and went in and out of rehabilitation. His
grandparents tried to pick up the pieces, but often adult burdens fell on Alex.

By 7 or 8, when he was not roaming the streets with a crew of older boys, he was
tending baby Raisa on his own. ''My mom would leave,'' he recalled. ''It wasn't
like a choice.''

Rescued by their grandparents, the brother and sister soon saw the family break
again when their grandfather, the head of a military academy, died at 63. And as
Ukrainian nationalism grew more stridently anti-Semitic, their grandmother
resolved to seek a new life for them in the United States, where an older
daughter had settled.

But Raisa's father opposed the plan, and after letting Ms. Bebeshko adopt Alex,
their mother would not give Raisa up. The crisis came in the bitter winter at
the turn of the century, when Raisa's father died of tuberculosis, and Raisa's
paternal grandmother, who had promised to support the child, sickened and died,
too. To stay would mean to lose their refugee visas and tickets to America --
Alex's life chance. To go was to leave Raisa alone with her ailing mother.

Instead, her grandmother arranged to place her in a Jewish orphanage a few
blocks from their home, hoping for a speedy reunion. It was Alex who had to take
the 6-year-old back to the institution on the last day. ''She kept crying and
saying she couldn't leave us,'' Alex recalled, choking up. ''And I just walked
away as quickly as I could.''

Her mother died half a year after their departure, at age 32, but in an Old
World notion of sparing Raisa grief, the orphanage director told the child that
she had gone far away to work.

With no money or documents to return to Odessa, the grandmother fell apart. But
Alex, starting with minimal English, was excelling at schoolwork, working
weekends to make ends meet -- and to retrieve Raisa. ''He's amazing,'' said Ben
Krull, who has been Alex's mentor at the Marks Jewish Community House of
Bensonhurst for four years. ''And he just cares about getting his sister here.''

Alex and his grandmother were first able to visit Raisa in the summer of 2003.
But Ms. Bebeshko's effort to adopt her -- a necessary step for sponsoring her
visa -- was long stymied by the child's paternal grandfather, who wanted a
payoff, Alex said. Eventually an Odessa court ruling cleared the way for a visa
application filed in March 2004.

It is now stuck in a five-year processing lag. At that rate, her brother pointed
out, Raisa would be 16. ''I don't know what kind of toll it's taking on her,''
he said.

Learning of the case from a Russian-language newspaper last year, Ms.
Matiychenko saw it as perfect for humanitarian parole. She has not given up
despite two rejections. ''What could be more urgent than to spare an 11-year-old
girl, physically healthy but emotionally impoverished, from the frightful
isolation of an orphanage?'' the lawyer asked in her latest petition, which is
pending.

Ms. Bebeshko, who spent a happy week with the child last month, cannot recall
their last parting without sobbing. ''Sometimes I feel I don't have the strength
to go on, because nothing I do works,'' she said through Alex. ''The last time I
saw her, she said, ''Again you're leaving me, and I'm going to be here all
alone.'''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2005



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about efforts to obtain a ''humanitarian
parole'' that would allow an orphan girl in Odessa to join her brother and
grandmother in Brooklyn misspelled the surname of a spokesman for Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. He is Michael W. Gilhooly, not Gilhooley.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alex Krylov comforts his grandmother, Larisa Bebeshko, in their
apartment in Coney Island. They are pushing to have Alex's sister, Raisa Skakun,
above, sent to the United States from the orphanage where she is staying in
Ukraine. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Larisa Bebeshko says her granddaughter keeps asking, ''When are you going to
take me to America?'' (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lured by the Work but Struggling to Be Paid

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE WORKERS; Pg.
15

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: GULFPORT, Miss., Oct. 14


The acrid smell inside trailer No. 2 is tough to take for any length of time.
The linoleum floor is filthy and bare, aside from a few soiled blankets jammed
in the corners. Dishes caked with leftover food are piled high in the sink,
attracting flies. Two portable fans are the only things stirring the air.

But six men are living here. They sleep on that floor. They swat away those
flies and dodge the roaches at night. They traveled all the way from Guatemala
for this.

''It's O.K. for us,'' said one of them, Francisco Velazquez. ''We need money.''

One of the many casualties of Hurricane Katrina was the Mississippi work force.
There are not enough people left in the area to fill the many jobs there are to
do. Those posting ''help wanted'' signs include the Applebee's in Ocean Springs,
Miss., which has been closing at 6 p.m. for lack of waiters, and the contractors
enlisted to clear the seemingly limitless debris along the Gulf Coast.

Mr. Velazquez, 45, is one of 32 immigrants housed in three mobile homes who are
being paid $8 an hour to tear Sheetrock for 10 hours a day. The men are among
hundreds of illegal immigrants who entered the United States hoping to find work
in the aftermath of the hurricane.

They are promised good pay, three meals a day and a place to stay, and some
contractors make good on this. But the Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance,
an advocacy group, says many do not.

''These workers are superexploited by contractors in horrible living
conditions,'' said Bill Chandler, the president of the alliance. ''People are
working without any kind of inoculation -- tetanus or anti-hepatitis -- they
don't have goggles, they don't have gloves, they don't have any safety
protection at all.''

Last month, President Bush made it easier for employers to use a less-expensive
hand, suspending the Davis-Bacon Act in the areas devastated by Hurricane
Katrina. The act is a Depression-era law that prohibits federally financed
construction jobs from paying wages less than a local average.

Mr. Velazquez and the other men crossed the desert for three nights on foot and
stole across the border because they heard about the hurricane and wanted jobs.
Mr. Velazquez has 10 brothers, a wife and three grown daughters back home. He
said his parents were sick, and when he talked about his father, his eyes filled
with tears.

''He's 86 years old and he can't walk,'' Mr. Velazquez said. ''My parents say,
'We need help.'''

Arnoldo Antonio Lopez, 36, another worker in the group, said he paid $70 a month
to live in trailer No. 10. He said he would have put up with the poor
conditions, but the contractor who hired him did not pay him. ''He promised me
$7 an hour wages and good food,'' Mr. Lopez said.

He and the other men went to work for another contractor. But that employer also
did not pay, they said. The alliance refused to name any of the employers
because it is considering legal action.

''They hadn't eaten for three days when we got to them,'' said Vicki Cintra, the
Gulf Coast outreach organizer for the alliance. ''They had no blankets, nothing.
They were sleeping on the floor. They had no money to buy food.''

So when the alliance offered a way out, Mr. Lopez and the other workers in the
group eagerly accepted it. Now they are living at Our Lady of Fatima Church in
Biloxi, Miss., where the Roman Catholic nuns took them in.

''They were having many difficulties,'' said Sister Maryvale Witrago, a nun
working at the church. ''We wanted to try to help them.''

''We're trying to look for other jobs for them, other people who will be more
honest,'' Sister Maryvale added. ''If they work, they should receive the money
for the work. Because they don't speak English, the bosses think it's easier to
keep the money.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Mid-Atlantic: Maryland: Tip About Plot Leads To Deportation

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 82 words


A man detained after his name came up in a tip about a purported bomb plot
against Baltimore highway tunnels will be deported for immigration violations
along with three other men who were picked up at the same time, said Mark
Bastan, acting special agent in charge at the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in Baltimore. Because of the tip, the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel was
closed on Tuesday and the Fort McHenry Tunnel was reduced to one lane of traffic
in each direction for nearly two hours.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 22, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Finds U.S. Failing On Overstays Of Visas

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21


The Department of Homeland Security far too frequently fails to follow up on
leads that foreign visitors have overstayed their visas, the agency's inspector
general says in a new report.

The result is an enforcement system that poses little threat of repercussions
for tourists, students and others who quietly turn into illegal immigrants, the
report says.

Of the 301,046 leads the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency received in
2004 on possible visa violators, the report says, only 4,164 were formally
pursued, resulting in just 671 apprehensions.

And while some of those cases are still pending, the inspector general, Richard
L. Skinner, predicted that a ''minuscule'' number of these individuals were ever
likely to face deportation, an action generally taken only if a person has a
criminal history and is detained.

The study estimates that the visa overstay population in the United States is at
least 3.6 million people, out of an estimated 9 million to 10 million illegal
immigrants. Yet nationally, only 51 full-time agents in the special enforcement
unit of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency were assigned in 2004 to
work on these cases, the report says. Thus, half of the referrals the auditors
examined where not followed up within a two-month period.

The unit ''could not keep pace with the large volume of lead referrals,'' the
report said, leading the inspector general to question the ''effectiveness in
identifying, locating and apprehending potential violators.''

Responding to the report, Michael J. Garcia, the former director of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, said the agency focused not on how old a lead was, but
''its threat or public safety potential,'' citing, for example, a case that it
pursued immediately involving a violator who was also wanted in the rape of a
14-year-old girl.

Many of the leads the agency receives on visa violators also cannot be followed
up, Mr. Garcia said, because the individual may have left the country or because
they are inaccurate. But he did not dispute the report's basic findings.

Just this week, the secretary of homeland security, Michael Chertoff,
acknowledged to the Senate Judiciary Committee that his department was not doing
enough to prevent illegal immigration.

Conservative Republicans told Mr. Chertoff that before they would support a
temporary worker program proposed by President Bush, Mr. Chertoff must do a
better job of preventing people from illegally crossing the borders or ignoring
immigration laws after arriving legally in this country. The Bush program would
give legal status for up to six years for certain illegal immigrants already
working in the country.

''To say it is a disappointment is an understatement,'' Representative J.D.
Hayworth, Republican of Arizona, said of the inspector general's report on
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE. ''ICE is accurate as far as
an acronym of being frozen in place in a state of non-enforcement. That is
totally unacceptable to the American people.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 3, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yes, Immigration May Lift Wages

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel.

Virginia Postrel (dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How
the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words


FROM 1990 to 2000, the number of people working in the United States grew by
more than nine million, or around 8 percent, from immigration alone. What effect
did all those new foreign-born workers have on the wages of native-born
Americans?

The answer seems obvious at first. An increase in the supply of workers should
push down wages, just as a bumper crop of wheat drives down wheat prices.

That is exactly what some influential economic studies, notably by George J.
Borjas at Harvard, have found. In a 2003 article, for instance, Professor Borjas
calculated that immigrants had depressed the average wage of American-born
workers by about 3 percent in the 1990's.

But workers are not as uniform as wheat, and 10 years is a long time -- long
enough for employers to invest in new production and take on more workers. The
model of surging supply meeting fixed demand is not realistic.

As economists know all too well, changing the assumptions of a model can often
change the results. In a new working paper for the National Bureau of Economic
Research, two other economists using methodology similar to Professor Borjas's
but different assumptions get the opposite result.

In ''Rethinking the Gains From Immigration: Theory and Evidence From the U.S.,''
Gianmarco I. P. Ottaviano of the University of Bologna and Giovanni Peri of the
University of California, Davis estimate that immigration in the 1990's
increased the average wage of American-born workers by 2.7 percent. (The paper
is available at www.econ.ucdavis.edu/faculty/gperi.)

Although it still relies on a highly stylized model of the economy, their paper
adds two complexities that bring it closer to reality.

First, the two economists assume that businesses can make additional capital
investments to take advantage of the expanded supply of workers. Companies may
open new restaurants or stores, add new factory lines or build more houses.

In their model, as in the real world, ''investment adjusts not to keep fixed the
amount of capital but to keep fixed the return to capital,'' Professor Peri
said. As long as businesses can profitably add new production, they hire more
workers, and wages do not necessarily go down. Instead, he said, ''more workers
means more business.''

As businesses expand, hiring foreign-born workers to do one job may also require
hiring more native-born workers with complementary skills. Immigrant engineers,
for instance, may create demand for native-born patent lawyers and marketing
executives.

That is the paper's second refinement. It assumes that immigrants do not always
compete for the same jobs as American-born workers. The two groups are not
''perfect substitutes,'' even when they have similar education and the same
occupation. A Chinese cook is not the same as a Texas barbecue chef.

Immigrants often bring different skills to the American labor force, and
concentrate on different occupations from natives. Among high school dropouts,
the paper notes, the ''foreign-born are highly overrepresented in professions
like tailors (54 percent were foreign-born in 2000) and plaster-stucco masons
(44 percent were foreign-born in 2000).'' By contrast, American-born workers
make up more than 99 percent of all crane operators and sewer-pipe cleaners.

The same is true at the highest educational levels, where foreign-born college
graduates make up 44 percent of all medical scientists but only 4 percent of
lawyers. (Immigrants tend to be concentrated at the highest and lowest levels of
income and education.)

Immigrants do, of course, compete to some extent with native-born workers. The
question is how much.

To measure wage competition, the economists looked at how much an increase in
the number of foreign-born workers affects the wages of other foreign-born
workers versus American-born workers with the same educational background. If
the groups were perfect substitutes, the change would be the same.

But there is a difference. When the number of immigrant college graduates goes
up by 4 percent, their wages drop by 1 percent more than the wages of
native-born college graduates. Immigrants, in other words, compete more with
each other than with American-born workers.

Professors Ottaviano and Peri find that recent immigration has had the most
negative effects on the least educated.

Immigration in the 1990's, they estimate, raised the wages of native-born high
school graduates, college dropouts and college graduates by at least 2.5
percent. By contrast, they estimate that the wages of American-born high school
dropouts fell by 2.4 percent because of immigration.

In an interview, however, Professor Peri noted that Americans are increasingly
well educated, so that high school dropouts make up a small, rapidly declining
portion of today's native-born work force. In 2000, he said, only 9 percent of
American-born workers did not have a high school degree.

''If you look at the U.S. labor force,'' he said, ''those people born in the
U.S., I am talking about a negative effect for about 9 percent of the population
and a positive effect for 91 percent of the population.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 9, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Old Tappan: Korean Fugitive Arrested

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 109 words


Acting on a tip from Interpol, the global police agency, United States
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested a Korean man wanted in that
country on charges that he was involved in an $8 million stock and currency
swindle. The man, Heung Joo Kim, 56, is facing a deportation hearing and an
extradition request from Korea. He was arrested at his home on Friday. Federal
authorities discovered that Mr. Kim was in the United States after checking
fingerprints from Korean authorities against those taken when he entered as a
visitor in December 2004, immigration authorities said. Details of the charges
Mr. Kim faces in Korea were not available.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Across the U.S., Debate Over the President's Plan

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Faiza Akhtar contributed reporting from Farmingville,
N.Y., for this article, Carolyn Marshall from San Diego and Andrea Zarate from
Miami.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 728 words


At a 7-Eleven in Farmingville, N.Y., where security guards chase the immigrant
day laborers from the parking lot, a husband and wife stopped their shopping
long enough yesterday to disagree over President Bush's two-edged plan for such
workers: to stop them at the Mexican border if they cross illegally, or to offer
them temporary guest worker visas if they follow the rules.

''It is not a good idea, because they are just not going to go back,'' said
Robert Roach, a heavy-equipment operator, calling the president's proposals,
outlined in a speech yesterday in Tucson, a waste of taxpayers' dollars.

His wife, Karen, a nurse, was ready to give the plan a chance.

''The concept is good,'' Ms. Roach said. ''I don't know if the current
administration would know how to enforce it. But it's not a waste of taxpayers'
money if it gets us to recognize the problem and find a solution.''

The couple's disagreement was mirrored around the country. Some of the most
vocal critics of illegal immigration called Mr. Bush's proposals for stricter
enforcement measures too little, too late, while leading immigration advocates
used almost the same words to dismiss them as an empty public relations gesture.

But in hotspots of local friction over the issue, others said the country might
finally confront a complicated problem.

Carl Braun, an executive recruiter in San Diego and leader of the Minuteman
Corps of California, whose 800 volunteer members patrol the border with Mexico,
said the president was responding to demands from within the Republican Party in
places like California. Mr. Bush did nothing, Mr. Braun said, until groups like
his ''screamed so loudly'' that they were heard by the Republicans.

''The president has no choice but to act now,'' he said. ''But this should have
been done in the first place.''

From opposite ends of the spectrum, Frank Sharry, executive director of the
National Immigration Forum, which has supported amnesty for illegal immigrants,
and Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates restricting immigration, said Mr. Bush's speech was more spin
than substance.

''Instead of leading the country to bipartisan comprehensive reform,'' Mr.
Sharry said, ''he runs more of a danger of putting gasoline on the fire.''

Mr. Krikorian, who opposes any temporary guest worker program, suggested that
the speech would do nothing to placate the grass-roots backlash in Mr. Bush's
party.

''The gimmicky nature of this is clear from the fact that they're kicking off
next month as Border Security Month,'' he said. ''It's frankly like National
Pickle Week.''

A more hopeful reaction came from Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan
Institute, where the business wing of the Republican Party embraces the guest
worker approach. Ms. Jacoby called the plans for stepped-up border security and
tougher deportation measures ''a long, impressive, detailed list.''

''He made clear,'' she said, ''that he's going to use his voice and put what
political capital he has behind the effort to achieve broader reform, including
a guest worker program, including a way for the 11 million people already here
to come in out of the shadows.''

Ms. Jacoby also expressed some doubts. Of the proposal to require temporary
workers to return home before being allowed to renew their visas, she said, ''I
have concerns about whether it will be workable.''

In Miami, in a three-block line that snaked around federal immigration
headquarters, a young woman from Argentina said she was uncertain whether Mr.
Bush's plan would hold any hope for her.

''I've been here almost eight years struggling for asylum, but I'm still illegal
here,'' said the woman, who identified herself as V. Tapias, 29, a receptionist
at a sales center for a luxury condominium development.

Ms. Tapias said she had been caught by the Coast Guard on a scuba diving outing
with friends. Now, like many others in the line, she was preparing to wait all
night to be among the 60 let inside the building to contest deportation
proceedings.

Still, the president's talk of a temporary guest worker visa for up to six years
held some appeal for her.

''If they offer you six years,'' Ms. Tapias said, ''that's just buying me time
to find a husband or stay another way. I prefer to stay as an illegal here than
go back and die poor.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 160 words



Bush Tries to Reassure G.O.P. on Immigration
President Bush said there was a need to slow the flow of illegal immigrants and
addressed conservatives' concerns about his plan to give temporary legal status
to millions already in the United States.   PAGE A18

Funds Still Flow to Terrorists


A Congressional report says administration efforts to help foreign nations cut
off funds for terrorists have been hurt by leadership problems and insufficient
funds.   PAGE A8

Mets Land Another Big Star
The Mets signed the free-agent closer Billy Wagner, hours after introducing
their new slugger, Carlos Delgado.   SPORTSTUESDAY, PAGE D1

Drug Maker Plans Layoffs
Merck & Company, the third-largest American drug maker, plans to close five
manufacturing plants and lay off 7,000 employees.   PAGE C1

The Other Potter
After more than 100 years, Beatrix Potter -- and Flopsy, Mopsy, Cottontail and
Peter -- still attract new readers. An art review by Grace Glueck.   THE ARTS,
PAGE E1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico's Leader Says He'll Persevere on Migration

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 29


A day after President Bush announced steps to increase border security,
President Vicente Fox said Tuesday that his government would cooperate but would
also persevere in pushing to expand legal channels for Mexican immigrants
seeking work in the United States.

''To me it seems that one thing goes with the other,'' Mr. Fox said at a news
conference. ''If we are going to have a migration agreement that makes things
orderly, then we have to at the same time end the illegality.''

''The best thing that can happen to both our countries is to have an orderly
flow, a controlled flow, of migration to the United States,'' Mr. Fox said,
adding that Mexicans ''contribute enormously to the U.S. economy, to U.S.
competitiveness.''

Mr. Bush traveled to the border with Mexico on Monday to announce what he
described as a three-point plan to improve security along the border and stem
the growing tide of workers entering the country illegally each year.

The plan, he said, will involve strengthening law enforcement efforts by, among
other things, deploying at least 1,000 more Border Patrol agents, increasing
capacity at migrant holding centers and spending more than $200 million to
upgrade surveillance technology and infrastructure.

Mr. Bush also promised tougher enforcement against employers who hired
immigrants staying in the country unlawfully.

The third part of his plan, he said, will be to urge Congress to expand guest
worker programs so that millions of immigrants can fill jobs that Americans will
not do, but without letting them stay permanently.

Mr. Fox, who has just one year left in his term, said the speech renewed his
optimism that five years since Mexico began migration negotiations with United
States, Mr. Bush might finally succeed in getting support for limited reforms
from Congress.

''I am absolutely convinced that it is better for both our countries to work
together to reach an understanding,'' Mr. Fox said. ''And we are getting that
understanding from the government. We are getting it from Congress. So we will
keep having an optimistic, perseverant attitude toward this issue. And in the
end, I am sure that we will have an agreement.''

Not all Mexican political analysts were so sure.

Andres Rozental, the president of the Mexican Council on Foreign Relations, said
he was encouraged that Mr. Bush had expressed commitment to the guest worker
program. But he said he was worried that the president would press only for
increased law enforcement and ignore the more politically polarizing proposals
for guest workers, not to mention concerns about the status of the estimated six
million Mexicans already working in the United States without legal residency.

''The proof will be in the pudding when the White House gets down to the details
of what will actually happen and when,'' Mr. Rozental said. ''If there's only a
border enforcement program, then it's useless.''

Rafael Fernandez de Castro, of the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico,
echoed that thinking, saying Mr. Bush's speech was full of one-sided oratory
that emphasized security in the context of the antiterrorist concerns of the
United States but showed little interest in improving security for migrants who
are dying in record numbers as law enforcement operations force them to cross
through inhospitable deserts and dangerous rivers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 5, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Program for Immigrants Stirs Worries on Both Sides

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Longmont Journal; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1160 words

DATELINE: LONGMONT, Colo., Dec. 1


It might be tempting to think that tackling the tangled issue of immigration
would be easier here in Boulder County, which has a reputation, sometimes said
with a sneer in other corners of Colorado, of tolerating diverse and divergent
views on just about everything.

Sometimes the public discourse even on mundane matters is so good, local
officials brag, that it becomes almost a tourist attraction, drawing outsiders
who just want to stand up and be heard. Owners of the Java Stop, a coffee bar on
Main Street, say they have resisted adding wireless Internet access for fear it
could dampen the quality of conversation.

But the hard lesson being learned in this city some 35 miles north of Denver is
that immigration's thorns spare no one. The problems of economics, culture and
identity that so many other parts of the nation are grappling with are no easier
in the land of the open mike, residents and politicians say -- and may even be
harder because people here are so used to having their say.

The event that set off the lesson was a decision in October by the Longmont City
Council to approve the hiring of a full-time ''immigrant integration
coordinator,'' whose salary would be paid by a grant from a private foundation
and whose job it would be to help the county's immigrants, who are mostly from
Mexico, mesh more fully into society.

City officials say they have been on the defensive ever since, trying to explain
what the coordinator would do and not do, what the word ''integration'' means
and does not mean, and whether illegal immigrants would be treated differently
from other immigrants. The job has not been filled.

''From the reaction so far, this has the capacity to be one of the most
controversial, complex and passionate topics that we've ever taken on as a
community,'' said Karen Roney, Longmont's director of community services. ''It
could be the best thing we ever did, or it could be the worst.''

Some residents, in interviews around town, said they worried that integration
meant assimilation, and that immigrants would be pressured to give up their
native culture or language as the price of full community participation. Others
said they feared that the program would be the opposite and become a wedge to
force Longmont and Boulder County to accommodate people who are here illegally
and will not adapt.

The effort also got off on the wrong foot, Ms. Roney acknowledges, when some
members of the county steering committee overseeing the project suggested in the
planning meetings that hiring an illegal immigrant to fill the job would be a
good idea. Who better, they said, to know the problems and issues?

Ms. Roney, one of the committee's 21 members, said she had to point out that
knowingly hiring an illegal immigrant would violate federal labor law. But word
of the discussion filtered out anyway, and she wrote a letter this week to the
local newspaper, The Daily Times-Call, disavowing the idea all over again.

Fred Schotte, a 58-year-old retired banker who goes to the Java Stop most
mornings for coffee and talk, said the idea of an illegal worker in City Hall
was partly what intensified his opposition. Mr. Schotte said he thought the
coordinator position would be a Trojan horse that seemed to be one thing -- a
feel-good effort to bring people together -- but was really another, a way to
provide more services to people who Mr. Schotte thinks are already taking
advantage of the system.

About 20 percent of Longmont's 80,000 residents, not counting illegal immigrants
whose numbers are not known, is Latino, according to the Census Bureau, and 10.6
percent of the population was counted as foreign-born in the 2000 census.

''It's the ones coming here who don't want to fit in, who don't want to live the
American dream, that bother me,'' Mr. Schotte said. ''I feel like someone has
come into my house, and now I have to accommodate to them.''

Other people say that sort of thinking is exactly the problem that the
coordinator position should address and combat. Wanting people to ''fit in,''
they say, is the same impulse that once led teachers to punish American Indians
for speaking their native languages in reservation schools.

''Integration means I will participate fully in American culture,'' said
Marietta Vigil Gonzales, who teaches English as a second language and volunteers
among Longmont's Latino residents. Ms. Gonzales, whose ancestors first came to
the American Southwest from Spain in the late 1500's, said she was proud that
after so many generations she still spoke Spanish. ''Assimilation means that I
will have become like the stereotypical American, with no culture, no ethnic
background and no roots,'' she said.

Longmont's mayor, Julia Pirnack, said in an interview that she hoped the
coordinator would steer a middle course.

''Whether you call it assimilation or integration, we all have to be able to
live together,'' Ms. Pirnack said. ''I believe, over time, that we need all to
be able to speak English, but I don't believe people need to leave their culture
behind.''

She said that the coordinator would not, however, distinguish between whether an
immigrant was here legally or not.

''The fact is, people are here, they exist in the community, and ignoring them,
I think, would be a worse mistake,'' she said.

The integration program is being financed in 10 counties across the state --
$75,000 a year for four years -- by a group called the Colorado Trust, which
gives grants to projects that advance the ''health and well-being of Colorado,''
according to its mission statement. Trust officials said that one lesson they
had already learned was how communities within the same state could have very
different immigration issues.

In some places where the program is also gearing up -- like Pueblo, in southeast
Colorado -- newcomers are faced with adjusting to an older Hispanic culture that
has been there since the 1800's or earlier. In other places, like Gunnison, in
the center of the state, Mexican immigrants, some of whom speak tribal languages
rather than Spanish, are the issue.

A spokeswoman for the trust said the goal was not to solve the larger national
questions of immigration, but rather to work on its local consequences.

''We're not about changing policy; that is the federal government's job,'' said
the spokeswoman, Susan Downs-Karkos, a senior program officer. ''But we're
realizing that our communities have changed demographically and it's important
that we bring people together.''

Doug Brown, a City Council member in Longmont who supports the integration plan,
said he worried that the controversy over the coordinator position could
ultimately make the job harder by deepening the divisions even before anyone is
hired. Mr. Brown said that in recent days he had asked some of his more liberal
friends to tone down their comments, so as not to fan the flames.

''We want people to come together,'' he said, ''not fall apart.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen Roney says a decision to hire an ''immigrant integration
coordinator'' has the potential for good or bad. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 892 words



INTERNATIONAL   A3-19

Early Voting Results Are In, And Shiite Coalition Leads
Early voting results announced by Iraqi electoral officials indicated that
religious groups, particularly the main Shiite coalition, had taken the lead.
The secular coalition led by Ayad Allawi, the former prime minister, had won
only meager support in provinces where it had expected to do well, including
Baghdad.   A1

Sharon's Stroke Fallout


Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel is expected to be released from the
hospital with little damage from a mild stroke, his doctors said. His chances
for re-election were a subject of much speculation here, along with the
reactions of supporters to his recent vulnerability.   A12

Afghan Parliament Sworn In
Afghanistan's first democratically elected Parliament in more than 30 years was
sworn in before President Hamid Karzai, as well as the former king, Muhammad
Zaher Shah, and foreign dignitaries. This is the final step in an accord
sponsored by the United Nations that began after the fall of the Taliban.   A19

Armenian Aid, With Strings
President Bush's foreign aid program, the Millennium Challenge Corporation,
announced that it will give $236 million to Armenia. However, the country's
rulers were warned that the assistance would be suspended or terminated if its
record on political rights continues to deteriorate.   A7

Fox Attacks Immigration Bill
Furious about a tough immigration bill passed by the United States House of
Representatives, President Vicente Fox of Mexico publicly condemned the measure.
He described it as a setback in relations and as a troubling reflection of
America's willingness to tolerate xenophobia.   A6

NATIONAL   A20-28

Bush Asserts Authority For Domestic Spying
President Bush and two of his most senior aides argued that the highly
classified program to spy on suspected members of terrorist groups grew out of
the president's constitutional authority and a Congressional resolution in 2001
that authorized him to use military force against those responsible for the
Sept. 11 attacks.   A1

F.B.I. Records Show Spy List
Counterterrorism agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation have conducted
numerous surveillance and intelligence-gathering operations that involved, at
least indirectly, advocacy groups active in causes including the environment,
animal cruelty and poverty relief, new agency records show.   A1

20 Killed in Florida Plane Crash
A 1940's-era seaplane crashed off the southern tip of Miami Beach, killing all
17 adults and 3 children aboard as it plunged into calm blue waters.   A20

Youth Is Found Competent
A youth who was convicted in 2001 of stomping a 6-year-old playmate to death was
ruled mentally competent for a hearing that will determine whether he is
returned to prison, perhaps for life.   A20

Infection Drug Taken Off Shelf
Federal drug regulators removed from the market a radiological drug called
NeutroSpec after 2 people died and 20 others became gravely ill moments after
receiving it.   A26

Teenage Drug Abuse Rises
Alcohol abuse and cigarette smoking among teenagers are at historic lows, but
the number of high school students abusing prescription drugs like Oxycontin is
rising, with sedative abuse at its highest in 26 years, according to a national
study.   A20

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-8

Transit Workers Vote To Strike, Walkout Delayed
Leaders of the transit workers' union rejected the Metropolitan Transportation
Authority's latest contract offer last night, and voted to call a strike shortly
after 1 a.m. this morning, according to two members of the union's executive
board. But early this morning union leaders remained divided on whether to
actually proceed with the walkout.   A1

G.O.P. Debates Nominees
Most New York State Republican leaders have made it clear that they no longer
want Jeanine F. Pirro to run for the United States Senate. But they have not
united behind an alternative candidate.   B5

SCIENCE TIMES   F1-8

Health & Fitness   F5

SPORTSTUESDAY   D1-6

Devils Coach Quits
Larry Robinson, coach of the New Jersey Devils hockey team, abruptly quit over
the weekend, citing stress and poor health following the Devils' frustrating and
uncharacteristically mediocre start.   D1

ARTS   E1-10

OBITUARIES   A28-29

Vincent (Chin) Gigante
The mobster, who feigned mental illness for decades to camouflage his position
as one of the nation's most influential and dangerous Mafia leaders, was 77.
A29

BUSINESS DAY   C1-18

Security and Google Maps
Google Earth, free software that combines satellite and aerial images with
mapping capabilities, has met with opposition from several nations that object
to it because of national security concerns.   A1

TV Measure Moves Forward
The House of Representatives moved to provide millions of households with
coupons to buy equipment to keep their televisions working after broadcasters
switch from analog to digital signals.   C1

Italian Bank Official Resigns
Antonio Fazio, the governor of the Bank of Italy, resigned after managing for
months to fend off calls to step down. He found himself in a precarious
situation last week after prosecutors began investigating him for insider
trading.   C1

Business Digest   C2

EDITORIAL   A30-31

Editorials: The fog of false choices; Hong Kong holding pattern; last-minute
budget madness; rushing to execute in Texas.

Column: Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword   E8
TV Listings   E9
Weather   D8

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leaving Home, But Paying Homage To Its History

BYLINE: By CELIA BARBOUR

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS/Financial District;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1012 words


HUGO UYS was not poor, huddled, or yearning to breathe free on the day he
arrived in New York City eight years ago. But, like so many thousands of
immigrants before him, he had in his possession only as much as he could carry.
''I literally moved here with a bag of clothing,'' Mr. Uys said.

He came because his hometown, Johannesburg, had started to feel too small for
his entrepreneurial dreams. Back in South Africa, Mr. Uys (pronounced ''ace'')
had run his own fashion house, and he hoped to replicate that success on a
grander scale in the United States. But after interviewing with dozens of
designers, Mr. Uys discovered that nobody wanted to hire an employee who was
accustomed to being the boss.

''At some stage, I ran out of money and was forced to get a job,'' Mr. Uys said.
''After going for my umpteenth interview in a $3,000 Armani suit, I walked into
a restaurant and said, 'I need work.' The woman said to me, 'Do you know how to
be a waiter?' and I said, 'I know how to be served.' '' Six months later, he was
managing the place, the Grove Street Cafe, a small restaurant in the Village
that is no longer in business.

Today, Mr. Uys is part owner of the Paris Commune, a quintessential old West
Village restaurant, and Shag, a mod cocktail lounge at Bleecker Street and
Eighth Avenue. He also is a co-founder and co-owner of Ekoo, a canine-fashion
company notable for having created a widely publicized $10,000 dog coat
encrusted with Swarovski crystals.

Despite these achievements, Mr. Uys lacks the air of smug egotism one expects in
a self-made man. ''I cannot tell you how many people helped me get where I am
today,'' he said recently, sitting on a Corbusier-style club chair beside a pair
of 1950's Lucite lamps in his stylish financial district rental. ''New Yorkers
are the kindest, most generous, open-hearted people in the world. And I've lived
in Paris. I've lived in London. I've lived in South Africa.''

Indeed, Mr. Uys, the expatriate, can often sound like a man in the full bloom of
a head-over-heels romance with New York -- in contrast to the
old-married-grouchiness that passes for affection among most residents.

Mr. Uys's apartment does not feel like a homage to his adopted home. If
anything, it's a box of madeleines for his African boyhood.

Interspersed among his chic modern furnishings are a Somali ceremonial mask, a
pair of eight-foot wood giraffes, several majestic figural sculptures and the
requisite kiss-me-I'm-African zebra-skin rug. He also has a pair of etchings of
African landscapes, tiny, dusky images that look like snapshots of remembered
dreams. None of this was brought over from his Johannesburg home; he has
acquired every item since moving here.

For Mr. Uys, this apartment is not just a place to retreat into nostalgia. He is
a restaurateur, after all, and entertains frequently. ''I love having people
around me,'' he said. ''It makes me happy.''

So the primitive/modern decor gives way here and there to stagy, theatrical
touches, like a pair of giant topiaries and a glossy black baby-grand piano that
is often played at parties but never by Mr. Uys; he doesn't know how.

All of this, and two bedrooms, too, fit together very snugly in just over 1,000
square feet, which he rents for $2,500 a month. For an additional $120, Mr. Uys
also rents a storage space nearby, where he keeps the supplies for his dinner
parties: napkins, vases, flatware. ''I can walk over there and come back with
everything I need to do a safari-style service with wooden chargers and
giraffe-shape napkin holders, or silver service with silver chargers and
Waterford crystal,'' Mr. Uys said.

Is it surprising to find an entrepreneur living in a rental apartment during the
biggest real estate boom in history? Mr. Uys shrugged. ''It has always been more
important to me to use whatever capital was at my disposal to start a business
that would generate more capital,'' he said. Or, anyway, that's the rational
explanation.

In truth, he lives here because he made a snap decision in a panic one
afternoon, and it became an enduring condition of his life. ''On the day I had
to move out of another apartment where I was staying, I didn't have a place to
go,'' he said. A friend noticed a listing in the paper and called the landlord;
Mr. Uys moved in that afternoon.

That was in 1999, when the financial district still went dark at night. The
neighborhood's deserted streets didn't spook Mr. Uys. Compared with the lawless
Johannesburg he knew as a child, New York seemed fundamentally safe -- and it
continued to even after 9/11, whose horrors he witnessed at close range from his
living room window. These days, the neighborhood is ''festive and phenomenal,
especially in summertime,'' Mr. Uys said.

''I love living here; if you offered me a nice one-bedroom in the West Village
in exchange, I wouldn't take it,'' he said.

Over the years, Mr. Uys has invested in some modest renovations. He rewired the
lighting and buried sound-system cables in the walls. He stripped the paint from
wooden pilasters framing the windows. And, most impractically, he tore out the
apartment's only coat closet, depriving himself of a feature most hosts find
indispensable for dinner parties. In its place is a doorless nook that now
houses an enormous 800-year-old granite statue with a wry, peaceful smile, whom
he calls Susie. ''I don't know why,'' he said of the name.

Susie is from China, not Africa. But she has one important thing in common with
all of Mr. Uys's art: she captivated him the moment he saw her. ''I immediately
fell in love,'' he said. ''To me, art is something you buy because you look at
it and it does something to your soul, not because you think it's an investment
whose value will increase.''

''I'm a caretaker,'' Mr. Uys added. ''I want people who come to my house to feel
loved. When they walk in and see Susie, it's as if someone has said: 'Welcome.
There is peace in this house.' '' Which is just what the big stone towers of New
York said to Mr. Uys when he came to this town not so long ago.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: MODERN AND PRIMITIVE -- Hugo Uys inside his two-bedroom rental
apartment in the financial district. Interspersed among his modern furnishings
are several items from his native Africa, which he bought here, including a
Somali ceremonial mask and a zebra-skin rug. There is also an 800-year-old
smiling granite statue that he calls Susie. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Florida: Judge Orders Help For Cubans

BYLINE: By TERRY AGUAYO (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 93 words


A federal judge ruled that the government should not have returned to Cuba 15
immigrants found in January standing on the pilings of an abandoned bridge in
the Florida Keys. In his ruling, Judge Federico Moreno called the return
unreasonable and ordered the government to use its best efforts to help the
immigrants return to the United States. The government had argued that the
bridge was rooted under water and was not United States territory. Cubans who
arrive on shore may remain here and those stopped at sea are returned to Cuba.
TERRY AGUAYO (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Recourse Grows Slim for Immigrants Who Fall Ill

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3174 words


When Ming Qiang Zhao felt ill last summer, he lay awake nights in the room he
shared with other Chinese restaurant workers in Brooklyn. Though he had worked
in New York for years, he had no doctor to call, no English to describe his
growing uneasiness.

Mr. Zhao, 50, had been successfully treated for nasal cancer in 2000 at Bellevue
Hospital in Manhattan, which has served the immigrant poor since its founding in
1736. But the rules there had changed, and knowing that he would be asked for
payment and that security guards would demand an ID, he had concluded that he
could not go back.

So Mr. Zhao went to an unlicensed healer in Manhattan's Chinatown and came away
with three bags of unlabeled white pills.

A week later, his roommates, fellow illegal immigrants from Fujian Province in
China, heard him running to and from the toilet all night. In the street the
next day, July 6, he collapsed.

Immigrants have long been on the fringes of medical care. But in the last
decade, and especially since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, steps to
include them have faltered in a political climate increasingly hostile to those
who face barriers of language, cost and fear of penalties like deportation, say
immigrant health experts, providers and patients. More and more immigrants are
delaying care or retreating into a parallel universe of bootleg remedies and
unlicensed practitioners.

Last year, about 80 bills in 20 states sought to cut noncitizens' access to
health care or other services, or to require benefit agencies to tell the
authorities about applicants with immigration violations. Arizona voters
approved such a requirement in 2004 with Proposition 200. Virginia has barred
adults without proof of citizenship or lawful presence from state and local
benefits. Maryland's governor excluded lawful immigrant children and pregnant
women from a state medical program for which they had been eligible.

Most proposed measures were not adopted, but new versions are expected. Ballot
initiatives modeled on Arizona's Proposition 200 are circulating in California
and Colorado. And in December, the United States House of Representatives passed
a sweeping bill that would make ''unlawful presence'' in this country a felony
and redefine ''criminal alien smuggling'' to include helping any immigrant
without legal status.

''We've seen a real rise in anti-immigration measures across the country,'' said
Tanya Broder, a public benefits lawyer in Oakland, Calif., for the National
Immigration Law Center, ''and it's engendered confusion and fear that prevent
immigrant families from getting the care they need.''

Some who had been drawn into medical treatment by outreach efforts have
retreated, like Mr. Zhao, fearing the harder line toward immigrants, especially
those without money or proper papers. Even legal immigrants and parents of
children with legal status are more skittish about their health care, scared
that medical bills and public medical insurance can hurt their chances for
citizenship, bar relatives from coming to the United States or break up their
families.

''I heard that if you go to the emergency room or go to the doctor, they were
going to deport you,'' said Alejandra, a mother from Colombia living in Queens,
referring to a rule proposed in 2004 by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services that would have made hospitals report the immigration status of
emergency-room patients in exchange for more federal money. ''So then my four
children are going to be without me because I don't have documents here.''

The proposal did not pass, but like many of the proposed rules immigrants hear
about on television or from neighbors, its chilling effects lasted.

Restrictive bills are part of what supporters describe as a movement to end
tolerance for the country's estimated 11 million illegal residents.

''It's certainly an effort to make them go back,'' said Dan Stein, president of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group calling for fewer
immigrants and stricter enforcement of immigration laws. ''It will never be
acceptable for people to break our laws and then expect taxpayers to provide
health care.''

Almost by definition, the most fearful immigrants are the least likely to talk.
The Colombian mother in Queens, however, was among 75 immigrant parents, both
legal and illegal, who were interviewed in depth by researchers from the New
York Academy of Medicine for a study to be released later this year, with the
guarantee that their real names would be withheld.

What emerges from the transcripts, and from dozens of other interviews conducted
by The New York Times with patients, health-care providers and experts on
immigration, is a picture not only of heightened anxiety but also of immigrants
who are primed to flee rather than fight for help from a system that even the
native-born often find baffling and rude.

For Nadege, pregnant and in pain when she sought treatment at Queens Hospital
Center, a public hospital, the defining moment was a snub by a fellow Haitian
who had been summoned to interpret. ''She said to me, 'Don't come here saying
that you have a bellyache: no one is going to stay with you the entire day,' ''
Nadege recalled.

''I cried,'' she said. ''I picked up my belongings and left. Even if I was dying
that day, I wouldn't go back.''

Lard and Vodka, Not Doctors

  No one is suggesting that hospitals and clinics are seeing a decline in
immigrant patients. On the contrary, as a decade of record immigration continues
at an estimated annual clip of 1.2 million newcomers, the number of patients who
speak little or no English is growing everywhere. And some hospitals and clinics
are trying harder than ever to at least meet language needs.

But even in New York, a gateway of immigration, a national climate that makes
immigrant patients more timid also emboldens some front-line workers to bar the
way.

''If you have one renegade public-benefits worker who thinks they should be
discouraging access because they believe it's a drain on taxes, the word on the
street is it's too much of a hassle to apply,'' said Adam Gurvitch, director of
health advocacy for the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella group for
more than 150 immigrant organizations.

Problems getting insurance sometimes lead to risky decisions about children's
health care. A legal immigrant from Russia, Oksana, confessed to academy
researchers that she had delayed her daughter's vaccinations for months, keeping
her out of school until she could borrow $300 to pay for them. Melosa, of
Mexico, had so many problems with state-subsidized insurance that when her
severely asthmatic son ran a high fever she resorted to rubs of pig lard and
carbonate, instead of taking him to a doctor.

Vera, a Brooklyn mother from Belarus, used vodka rubs and borrowed medications
when her daughter was delirious with fever from the flu. ''We couldn't go to the
doctor without medical insurance,'' she said.

In the end, immigrants often return to mainstream care in dire need, only to
have their chaotic medical histories compounded by a beleaguered system whose
costliest medical technology is no substitute for timely treatment. In Mr.
Zhao's case, an ambulance took him, unconscious, to a bankrupt hospital system
where his life hung in the balance for weeks, and where one of his roommates, a
19-year-old waiter with uneven English, served as the interpreter.

''No money, no ID, no good English,'' said the waiter, Hong Chung. ''What you
going to do? Nobody pay attention to us.''

Mr. Zhao was in a coma when his brother, Ming Tong, 49, and Fujianese friends
came to the hospital, clutching the unlabeled pills, which had been described as
herb-based remedies for high blood sugar, high blood pressure and insomnia.

Mr. Chung remembers pleading, ''If you find out the name of the ingredients,
maybe he won't have to die.'' But he said doctors told him that the hospital was
unable to do such an analysis. The hospital, St. Mary's in Brooklyn, was
scheduled to close after more than a century serving the immigrant poor. St.
John's in Queens, where Mr. Zhao was transferred for more tests 12 days later,
was up for sale. Their parent organization, St. Vincent's Catholic Medical
Centers, the largest Roman Catholic hospital system in New York State, had just
filed for bankruptcy protection.

At struggling hospitals, interpretation can seem like a luxury, despite
longstanding federal and state laws requiring equal language access and studies
showing that it cuts cost by improving quality. Few hospitals have laboratories
capable of analyzing underground remedies.

''With regular drugs, we know what the side effects and interactions are,'' said
Dr. Sarvesh Parikh, a resident at St. John's, who wrote a note in Mr. Zhao's
chart about his roommates' account of the pills. ''About these kinds of pills,
we don't know anything.''

The larger mystery was why Mr. Zhao, a thin, quiet, frugal man, had gone without
medical care instead of returning to Bellevue. In 2000, seven years after he and
his brother arrived on American shores, jammed into the fetid hold of a
smuggling ship, Bellevue doctors had diagnosed and eradicated his nasal cancer.

But even when treatment is a medical triumph, without sick pay or a safety net
it can be personally devastating. In Mr. Zhao's case, the effects of surgery,
radiation and chemotherapy left him unable to work. His wife and son in China
had counted on his income, and without it, she divorced him to marry another
man. Then staggering medical bills arrived at the apartment that he and his
brother shared with six roommates.

Medicaid reimburses hospitals for emergency care of the poor, regardless of
immigration status. Outside of emergency care, however, illegal immigrants like
Mr. Zhao are ineligible for Medicaid; in two-thirds of states, so are most legal
noncitizens, no matter how indigent.

James Saunders, a spokesman for Bellevue, like Debby Cohen, a spokeswoman for
St. John's, said confidentiality laws barred discussion of Mr. Zhao's case. But
Mr. Saunders emphasized that Bellevue has a mandate not to turn anyone away
because of immigration status or lack of money, ''and an obligation to the
federal government to collect what we can.''

After the Sept. 11 attacks, about the same time Bellevue security guards began
demanding ID cards, clerks started collecting sliding-scale fees from the
uninsured. Mr. Zhao was charged $20 per visit, then $150 for a CAT scan.
Destitute, intimidated, unable to keep borrowing such sums, and unaware that the
fees could be waived, his brother said, Mr. Zhao gave up on Bellevue in 2002.

''The doctor said that he was supposed to come back every two months, every
three months, every six months, until the end of his life,'' Ming Tong Zhao
recalled through an interpreter. ''But he couldn't go back, because he couldn't
pay.''

By the time Mr. Zhao again ended up in a hospital, he was in a coma; just his
intensive care bed, at St. Mary's and then at St. John's, cost Medicaid $5,400 a
day. For more than a month, a parade of doctors did spinal taps, EKG's, CAT
scans and an M.R.I.; infused him with antibiotics, anticonvulsants and blood
thinners; and placed him on a ventilator. Tests showed diabetes and high blood
pressure, though their role in his collapse was uncertain.

Ming Tong, visiting between his work renovating kitchens in Manhattan, could not
get a clear answer about what was wrong with his brother and was afraid to
press. ''You understand,'' he said, ''people in the United States without legal
status don't want to cause too much trouble.''

Afraid to Seek Help

  Whether legal or illegal -- and many immigrant families include members in
both categories -- noncitizens are fearful of asking for too much. Many echo
Catalina, a Queens woman from Colombia who hesitated to sign her toddler up for
the free speech therapy urged by his pediatrician because she and her husband
had a pending application for a green card. ''It scared us,'' the woman said,
''because if you are asking for residency, you have to show you are capable of
living here without any help.''

Noncitizens are two to three times more likely to lack health insurance than
citizens, studies show, and the gap has widened, even for children. Even legal
immigrants qualified for government medical coverage often think twice about
accepting it.

Special concerns arise among different ethnic groups. Korean parents in Staten
Island mistakenly fear that their children will forfeit future chances for a
college loan, said Jinny J. Park, a health specialist at Korean Community
Services. And mothers at the Latin American Integration Center in Queens worry
unnecessarily that free medical care will later mean their children's military
conscription. As one, Melosa, put it, ''Everything we receive from the
government is like giving my children away little by little'' to the Army.

The changing political climate makes it hard to separate myth from reality. Laws
codify disapproval of government aid for noncitizens. An immigrant deemed
''likely to become a public charge,'' for example, is to be denied a green card
as undesirable. The 1996 welfare overhaul barred most legal immigrants who
arrived after August of that year from receiving federal Medicaid until they
become citizens, and the state-by-state patchwork of exceptions is confusing.

Even New York, which extends Medicaid to lawful immigrants and to low-income
children regardless of status, reserves the right to sue their sponsoring
relatives for reimbursement, though it is not doing so.

Those who do apply for public insurance discover a stark gap between the
enthusiastic multilingual marketing of H.M.O.'s and the Kafkaesque task of
getting and keeping an insurance card that works. They tell of learning only in
the doctor's office that a sick child's card is not valid and then being turned
away for lack of money.

The public health implications alarm James R. Tallon, president of the United
Hospital Fund, a nonprofit policy group in New York. ''Anything that keeps
anyone away from the health system makes no sense at all,'' Mr. Tallon said,
noting that early detection is crucial in case of Avian flu or bioterrorism.
''It takes one epidemic to change everyone's attitudes about this.''

In some cases, the change in attitude comes instead from immigrants who arrived
with high expectations of American medicine and now yearn for the kind they left
back home. Yelena Deykin, a legal refugee who came from Ukraine in 2000, said
that if she had the money, she would take her son back there for treatment of
his thyroid ailment. ''Our doctor not like your doctor,'' she said. ''Altruism
-- not business.''

In Mr. Zhao's hospital room, visitors began to hope for his recovery. After
three weeks, he seemed responsive when they called his name. So it came as a
shock when Mr. Chung, the waiter acting as a translator, relayed a new request
from a doctor: Would they agree to let Mr. Zhao die?

Mr. Chung, who would soon return to work at an Asian restaurant in South
Charleston, W.Va., translated the request for a ''do not resuscitate'' order as
best he could, and drew his own conclusions. ''Maybe some people don't like
Chinese,'' he said.

Ming Tong refused to sign the order, then telephoned his brother's son, in
China, and asked him to decide. The son wept. Now 23, he had been a child of 9
when he last saw his father. As they discussed it again on Aug. 9, Mr. Zhao grew
agitated. He tried to pull free of his tubes and his oxygen mask, as though he
wanted to speak. Instead, despite resuscitation efforts, he died without a word.


In the End, No Answers

   ''The one thing that he wanted the most in his life was to see his son again,
and he didn't even get that chance,'' Ming Tong said. ''Why did he die? I asked
the doctors. They didn't know. They didn't answer me.''

For immigrants, the divide of language and culture often deepens after death. In
this case, doctors requested an autopsy. Ming Tong refused, in keeping with
Chinese tradition. Doctors certified the death as natural, not mentioning the
pills. The official cause of death was lobar pneumonia and sepsis, secondary to
diabetes and hypertension -- acute lung and blood infections, that can attack
patients on ventilators, but whose origins in this case are unknown, and chronic
conditions that weaken the system.

On Aug. 13, The World Journal, a Chinese-language newspaper circulating to
300,000 in North America, described Mr. Zhao's death as part of a pattern of
fatal misdiagnoses and wrong medications given by unlicensed practitioners on
East Broadway, the thoroughfare of Fujianese Chinatown.

But at the Medical Examiner's Office, where an inquiry could have been ordered,
no one reads Chinese and no one was aware of questions about the case.
Permission for cremation was granted the next day.

Most of Mr. Zhao's possessions fit into his coffin. The rest, including the
pills, were discarded. But a woman going to his funeral called The New York
Times and accused an unlicensed practitioner on East Broadway of mishandling Mr.
Zhao's case.

A decade ago, the Chinese American Medical Society helped spur a short-lived
state crackdown on a Chinatown subculture of fake doctors. But ''there are more
illegal doctors than ever now,'' said Dr. Peter Fong, an ophthalmologist and a
former vice president of the society. They are not just offering herbal
supplements, for which no license is required, he said, but practicing medicine
without a license -- a crime.

To John C. Liu, the first Asian-American elected to the New York City Council,
the reason is obvious: ''What empowers the quacks is lack of access to health
care.''

Chinese workers scattered in jobs throughout New York and across the country
periodically return to East Broadway, the hub of Fujianese life in the United
States, to find health care -- of a sort.

No. 52, where Mr. Chung says he accompanied Mr. Zhao last summer and saw the
dispensing of the pills, is stacked with self-styled clinics. One thrives at the
back of a basement computer store; another features $30 pregnancy sonograms and
a crookedly lettered sign for ''precise dental art.''

The establishment of Yu Yuan Zhang, 50, where Mr. Chung said he and Mr. Zhao
went, has operated for 11 years. Near drawers of Chinese herbs hangs a New York
State medical license -- in someone else's name. Visibly nervous, Mr. Zhang
denied that any pills he dispensed could cause harm. ''They're made in China,''
he said, ''available all over, in the street.''

By then, the only evidence left of Mr. Zhao's 12 years in the United States were
bills, ashes and a death certificate that his brother could not read. Pressed
about the case, the practitioner did not hesitate.

''There is no such person,'' he said. ''There is no Ming Qiang Zhao.''

Being a Patient

  Twelve previous articles, and a reader discussion on what it is like to be a
patient today, are online at nytimes.com/health.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: BEING A PATIENT: Sick in a Strange Land

GRAPHIC: Photos: A MOTHER'S FRUSTRATION -- Yelena Deykin, a refugee from Ukraine
who was disappointed with American doctors' treatment of her son, sometimes uses
homeopathic remedies. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
 SICK BED -- Ming Qiang Zhao, an illegal immigrant, slept here in the small
apartment he shared with several other men. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York
Times)(pg. A17)Chart: ''Health Insurance Disparities''Health insurance coverage
by citizenship status, 2003:Native citizensEmployer: 66%Medicaid: 11%Uninsured:
15%Other: 8%Naturalized citizensEmployer: 65%Medicaid: 6%Uninsured: 21%Other:
8NoncitizensEmployer: 38%Medicaid:106%Uninsured: 47%Other: 5(Source Urban
Institute, 2005)(pg. A17)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 6, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Immigrant Georgia, New Echoes of an Old History

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 862 words

DATELINE: Savannah, Ga.


The Coke-bottle glasses of hindsight can leave even profound historical miseries
all blurry with sentimentality. That's one way to explain the Savannah Irish
Festival, a two-day celebration of the Great Famine's great contribution to this
lovely Southern city -- the migration of thousands of starving laborers who
toted barges, lifted bales, dug ditches and cellars, and put down roots here in
the mid-1800's.

Their descendants crowded the Savannah Civic Center for the festival, eating
corned-beef sandwiches, drinking Guinness and applauding the young step dancers
who thundered across the stage, tossing their auburn ringlets. Vendors sold
teapots and cookbooks and those itchy, kitschy sweaters and scarves that have
become the worldwide uniform of warm, fuzzy Irishness.

It is hard to imagine a tubercular immigrant, knee deep in cellar muck, dreaming
that his adopted city would one day commemorate his sacrifice with a party.
Unskilled Irish immigrants were abused and despised back then, chained to a life
of poverty and hard labor that bonded them -- at least for a little while --
with enslaved African-Americans.

The parallels with the present day are too obvious to ignore. Georgia is
undergoing another demographic shift, as Mexican immigrants flock to its farms,
mills, processing plants and cities. The Latino immigrant population has soared
in the last 10 years and exploded in the last 5, to an estimated 650,000 in a
state of nine million. Some experts say the real immigrant number is double
that. At least half of the newcomers are illegal, unskilled laborers who, like
their Irish predecessors, want ''any job, but now.''

Anti-immigrant groups have taken to calling the state ''Georgiafornia,'' and
have vowed to fight the Latino influx. As Congress takes up immigration
legislation in coming weeks, the Republicans who control the Georgia Legislature
have been way ahead of them, having already put the issue at the top of their
agenda. The leader of the effort, Senator Chip Rogers, has sponsored a bill he
calls ''the most comprehensive illegal-immigration legislation in America.''
State Senate Bill 529, the Georgia Security and Immigration Compliance Act,
seeks to cut off illegal immigrants from what its backers perceive to be a vast
plundering of taxpayer-financed benefits, like medical care and schooling.

The bill is less ham-fisted than a measure recently passed by the Georgia House,
which would impose a 5 percent surcharge on people wiring money abroad who could
not prove they are here legally. The Senate bill proposes a strategy of
deterrence by bureaucracy. Anyone who hires someone at more than $600 a year,
for example, would not be able to take a business deduction on a state tax
return without verifying the employee's legal status.

The Republicans who control the Georgia Legislature say that public sentiment is
with them and that the time to strike is now. The bill's opponents acknowledge
that S.B. 529 is likely to pass and have concentrated their efforts on trying to
pull as many of its teeth as possible.

Yet, while Georgia is not about to break out the ''Kiss Me, I'm Mexican''
buttons, the current political climate is far different from the one the Irish
newcomers banged up against a century and a half ago. Much of the state is
struggling to find a sensible and humane way to handle the rising tide of
newcomers. Even Senator Rogers's most vocal opponents admit that on balance,
things could be worse. Senator Sam Zamarripa, an Atlanta Democrat, was able to
negotiate with Mr. Rogers to exempt those under 18 from S.B. 529 and to protect
access to prenatal care and higher education.

And not everyone here is phobic about living in Georgiafornia. Savannah, for
example, is home to people like Melody Ortiz, a recruiter at Armstrong Atlantic
State University, who travels the state looking for Hispanic students to apply
for scholarships financed by the Goizueta Foundation, founded by Roberto
Goizueta, the former Coca-Cola chief executive. One of her goals is to get the
children of illegal immigrants into higher education, something an earlier
version of Senator Rogers's bill tried explicitly to deny.

Then there is John Newton, editor of La Voz Latina, a free monthly newspaper
that circulates in Georgia and South Carolina, part shopper, part immigrant
manifesto. Mr. Newton, who is not Hispanic, describes his job as something close
to a missionary vocation. ''How insane it is,'' he writes, ''for a nation of
aging baby-boomers to vilify a work force composed, for the most part, of
members of the Christian faith, with strong family values, a willingness to work
and a desire to succeed.''

Savannah is approaching its biggest celebration of the year, St. Patrick's Day,
when hordes descend on the sidewalks and historic squares, and the grits and
fountains turn green. That celebration, like its New York counterpart, has
become a beer-soaked blowout that has little to do with any specific immigrant
group. But underneath the happy, vague ethnicity of it all is a rich and
tear-soaked history. And anyone who cares to look around can see the telltale
signs of that history repeating itself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Policemen Accused of Taking Bribes to Protect Queens Brothel

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM and MICHELLE O'DONNELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words


It is one of the oldest forms of police corruption: taking money to look the
other way.

And that is what two veteran police officers were doing in Flushing, Queens,
federal authorities said yesterday. They looked the other way, the officials
said, while a brothel took in more than $1 million a year from customers who
streamed in from shiny late-model cars double-parked outside.

Inside the stucco and brick building, across the street from a cemetery, 16
women, many of whom officials believe paid thousands to come to the United
States from South Korea and China, worked as prostitutes behind windows obscured
by pink or maroon satin fabric. But the two officers did not take much money:
one accepted just several hundred dollars, the other the discounted services of
the house, according to court papers.

And they did more than just look away. Prosecutors charge that they helped shut
down the brothel's competitors, essentially using the information they had
gleaned in their illicit relationship with one criminal enterprise to burnish
their reputations as policemen by working to shut down others.

But unknown to them, another officer was in their midst -- an undercover vice
detective whose work was part of a 10-month investigation of the brothel with
which they were connected, the authorities said. It was during that sting
operation that the authorities said they learned that the two veteran officers,
assigned to the 109th Precinct, were willing to take bribes.

Yesterday, the F.B.I., the police, the United States Attorney in Brooklyn and
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents announced the arrests of the two
officers, Dennis Kim, 29, and Jerry Svoronos, 30; the woman and man accused of
running the brothel, Gina Kim and Geeho Chae, both 37; and 16 young women
believed to have worked there as prostitutes.

It was the largest sex and bribes-for-protection scandal in the New York City
Police Department since more than a dozen officers were implicated nearly a
decade ago for protecting a brothel on Manhattan's West Side and using it,
essentially, as a clubhouse while they were on duty.

Agents raided the three-story brothel at 57-24 164th Street late Wednesday, and
the home that Mr. Chae and Ms. Kim, who was not related to the arrested officer,
shared at 149-24 Roosevelt Avenue, the officials said. At the home and in the
couple's car, the authorities recovered roughly $800,000 that they believe was
income from the brothel's operation.

The arrests and the raid in a quiet residential section of Flushing opened a
window to what some called a thriving community of brothels in the largely
Chinese and South Korean community. One man who said he was a client of the
shuttered establishment said that the existence of brothels was well known in
the area, and that each has its own practices, regulations and pricing systems,
like charging more for customers who come from South Korea than those who come
from China.

It is a lucrative trade, according to an affidavit supporting the arrest
warrants sworn out by F.B.I. Special Agent Won Yoon. In a secretly recorded
conversation, Ms. Kim told the undercover detective that, on the day the brothel
opened on May 18, 2005, she had 20 customers each paying $200, earning $4,000
that single day. The brothel's first location was at 43-53 162nd Street, and
later moved to 164th Street, the affidavit said.

The undercover detective met with the brothel operators 17 times in Queens, at
diners, a Starbucks, a Dunkin' Donuts and in parking lots, and they gave him
twice-monthly payments of $6,000, plus additional money for raiding their
competitors, according to the affidavit. In all, they paid him $126,500.

But the bribes seemed to be just a cost of doing business in the sex-trafficking
trade; Agent Yoon estimated that the brothel earned more than $1.1 million over
the 41 weeks it was in operation.

And Officer Kim, who admitted accepting several hundred dollars in bribes, also
profited in another way, using information to make other arrests. ''I wanted to
be the number one cop, you know?'' he admitted in a conversation with Agent
Yoon. ''Because I wasn't making sergeant. You know I wasn't smart enough.''
Yesterday, the two officers, looking haggard, appeared before United States
Magistrate Judge Viktor V. Pohorelsky, who released them on $250,000 bond each.

The judge ordered them not to associate with the three other officers with whom
they had worked in the 109th Precinct ''Conditions Unit,'' which focuses on
quality of life problems, including prostitution.The prosecutor in the case,
Assistant United States Attorney Steven H. Breslow, would not say whether other
officers in the unit were also under investigation, adding that the inquiry was
continuing.

A lawyer for Officer Svoronos, Joseph L. Conway, said his client played a
peripheral role in the case. ''He was a good, solid police officer with numerous
arrests during his career on the force,'' Mr. Conway said. Julia L. Gatto, Mr.
Kim's lawyer, declined to comment.

Judge Pohorelsky issued a permanent order of detention against the accused
brothel operators, both South Korean citizens, after Mr. Breslow said they had
access to extremely large amounts of cash and travel documents. Lawyers for the
two declined comment.

Along 162nd Street, the man who identified himself as a former client of the
brothel said that the Korean system of prostitution in New York City was tightly
managed. In a Korean brothel, the man, 28, said, only Korean and Chinese men
were allowed in. He said that when he patronized the brothel at 53-43 162nd
Street two years ago, there were two prices in place, for some unexplained
reason: $150 for Chinese patrons, and $200 for Koreans.

He said that some of the women became involved with prostitution because they
owed up to $100,000 to smugglers who brought them to the United States.
''They're sold to someone in America, and they have to work that debt off so
they can be free,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Officer Jerry Svoronos, left, and his lawyer, Joseph L. Conway,
and Officer Dennis Kim, and his lawyer, Julia L. Gatto, outside court yesterday.
(Photographs by Jonathan Fickies for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 This brothel in Flushing took in $1 million in a year, officials say. (Photo by
Richard Lee for The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Candid Dutch Film May Be Too Scary for Immigrants

BYLINE: By GREGORY CROUCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Nijmegen Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: NIJMEGEN, the Netherlands, March 15


This is not exactly a run-of-the-mill homework assignment: watch a film clip of
an attractive woman sunbathing topless, and try not to be shocked.

''People do not make a fuss about nudity,'' the narrator explains.

That lesson, about the Netherlands' nude beaches, is followed by another:
homosexuals have the same rights here as heterosexuals do, including the chance
to marry.

Just to make sure everyone gets the message, two men are shown kissing in a
meadow.

The scenes are brief parts of a two-hour-long film that the Dutch government has
compiled to help potential immigrants, many of them from Islamic countries, meet
the demands of a new entrance examination that went into effect on Wednesday. In
the exam, candidates must prove they can speak some Dutch and are at least aware
of the Netherlands' liberal values, even if they do not agree with all of them.

Opponents of the tightening immigration policies have pointed to the film -- a
DVD contained in a package of study materials for the new exam -- as an attempt
by the government to discourage applicants from Islamic countries who may be
offended by its content.

Dutch politicians and immigration officials have dismissed those accusations,
saying the film, blandly titled ''To the Netherlands,'' is a study aid that will
give potential immigrants an honest look at the way life is lived here.

''The film is meant for people not yet in Holland to take note that this is
normal here and not be shocked and awed by it once they arrive,'' said Ayaan
Hirsi Ali, a Somali-born member of the Dutch Parliament.

But Abdou Menebhi, chairman of Emcemo, a Moroccan interest group in Amsterdam,
said the film was just another example of how the Netherlands was trying to
limit immigration from Muslim countries.

''This isn't education, it's provocation,'' Mr. Menebhi said. ''The new law has
one goal: to stop the flow of immigrants, especially by Muslims from countries
like Morocco and Turkey.''

Citizens of some countries, in fact, are exempt from the examination, including
those from the United States and European Union nations.

The Netherlands now has some of the strictest immigration policies in Europe,
drafted in part during a period of rising societal tension after the killings of
the anti-immigrant politician Pim Fortuyn and the filmmaker Theo van Gogh, who
with Ms. Hirsi Ali made a movie critical of Islam.

In recent years, the government has increased age and income requirements for
certain groups of immigrants, specifically as an effort to cut down on an influx
of young Muslim women bound for arranged marriages here. Policy makers say they
are concerned about an estimated 600,000 immigrants already here who do not
speak proper Dutch. Poor housing and high unemployment among minority groups is
contributing to ethnic tensions in some of the largest cities, where incidents
of violence against Jews and homosexuals have raised new concerns.

Dutch officials deny that the film ''To the Netherlands'' -- or the new law for
that matter -- is intended to discourage further Muslim immigration. But they
insist that they want all applicants to consider whether or not they would fit
into one of the world's most permissive societies.

''This notion that we want to shock Muslims, that is complete nonsense,'' said
Maud Bredero, a spokeswoman for Minister of Immigration Rita Verdonk. ''They
don't need to agree in their hearts with homosexuality, but we ask them to
respect other people's rights. This is a free country.''

The film indulges in a dose of Dutch frankness. Besides the snippets on
homosexuality and nudity, it features a run-down neighborhood largely populated
by foreigners plus interviews with immigrants who do not always describe the
Dutch in flattering terms, calling them at one point ''cold'' and ''distant.''

The film warns of traffic jams, integration problems, unemployment and even
possible flooding in a country largely below sea level. Some immigrant success
stories are showcased, but one newspaper joked that the tourist board would give
the whole production a thumbs down.

''This is not meant to make fun of ourselves or the people who want to come
here,'' Ms. Bredero said. ''But people do need to know what kind of country they
are coming to. You have to know a little about the values here, like the fact
that men and women have the same rights.''

Well aware that simply watching a naked woman on film, for example, is
prohibited by law in some countries, the Dutch authorities have created a second
version of the film, minus bare breasts and gay kisses.

''Someone from Iran doesn't need to order the tape with the gays and the topless
woman,'' Ms. Bredero explained. ''They'll get an edited version.''

But even in that version, nudity and homosexuality are discussed and portrayed
because the applicant could be asked a question about them on the exam, Ms.
Bredero added.

For her part, Ms. Hirsi Ali says she cannot understand why the film has become
controversial, comparing it to all of the consumer warning signs one finds in
the United States.

''When I was at Barney's in New York recently, there was a little board in front
of the escalator, 'Watch out, you might fall.' This film has that kind of
message,'' she said, explaining that some viewers have probably never met a
homosexual or seen a nude beach. ''It's for those who don't know.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Conservative Muslims thinking about living in the Netherlands
must be prepared for a permissive society with liberal values, the Dutch say.
(Photo by Evert Elizinga/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Florida: Cubans Can Return, U.S. Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 160 words


Fourteen Cubans sent back to their country by the Coast Guard after their boat
landed at an abandoned bridge in the Florida Keys can return to the United
States, provided their government lets them go. The American government will
issue visas to the Cubans under an agreement approved last week by a federal
judge. There is still no guarantee that Cuba will permit the group to leave the
island. A call to the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, which represents
the Castro government, was not immediately returned. Under the American ''wet
foot, dry foot'' policy, most Cubans who reach American soil are allowed to
stay, while those intercepted at sea are generally returned home. The group of
Cubans arrived at the bridge in January but were sent back because sections were
missing and the span was no longer connected to American soil. A judge ruled on
Feb. 28 that the Cubans had legitimately reached United States shores and should
not have been sent home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Cuban Exile To Remain In U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 98 words


A Cuban accused of masterminding the 1976 bombing of a Cuban airliner will
remain in United States custody for the foreseeable future, but efforts to
deport him to a country willing to accept him will continue, officials say. The
man, Luis Posada Carriles, was arrested in Miami in May after illegally entering
the United States through Mexico. He is being held by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in El Paso. The agency issued a statement saying that Mr. Posada
would not be released from its custody ''at this time'' and that further review
was needed to determine where he could be sent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 403 words



Defense Rests in Trial Of Accused 9/11 Terrorist
Defense lawyers trying to prevent the government from executing Zacarias
Moussaoui ended their case by presenting the accounts of senior Qaeda
terrorists. The testimony, portraying Mr. Moussaoui as unreliable and unstable,
was intended to dispute his own surprise claim that he was to have played a
major role in the Sept. 11 attacks.   PAGE A19

Immigration Debate Boils In Congress and on Television


The Senate Republicans who voted to legalize the nation's illegal immigrants
look at the waves of immigration reshaping this country and see a powerful work
force and future Americans. The House Republicans who backed tough border
security legislation look at the same people and see a flood of invaders and
lawbreakers. And shifting from observer to advocate, Lou Dobbs, the CNN anchor,
steps into the fray.   PAGE A17

SPECIAL TODAY

Museums
Looted art, whether from Italian ruins or Iraqi archaeological sites, has
provoked a debate about the concept of ownership and the laws that govern it.
Also, the Frick Collection courts new money, and millions visit museums in
cyberspace.   SECTION G

Caspar W. Weinberger Is Dead
As secretary of defense under President Ronald Reagan, with whom he is shown in
1987, he oversaw a huge peacetime military buildup. He served three Republican
presidents, and was a crucial backer of the ''Star Wars'' defense system and an
implacable foe of the Soviet Union. He was 88.   PAGE A21

Liberia's Ex-Leader Vanishes
The former Liberian president, Charles G. Taylor, living in exile in Nigeria,
vanished two days after Nigeria's government said an international court in
Sierra Leone could indict him.   PAGE A3

A Steady Course at the Fed
The chairman of the Federal Reserve has changed, but the board's course remained
the same. The Fed increased its benchmark rate to 4.75 percent.   BUSINESS DAY,
PAGE C1

Duke and Carolina Advance
Duke stopped Connecticut in overtime and North Carolina ousted Tennessee to
reach the N.C.A.A. women's basketball Final Four. They joined Louisiana State
and Maryland.   SPORTSWEDNESDAY, PAGE D1

Ex-Judges on Eavesdropping
Five former judges on the nation's most secretive court urged Congress to give
the court a formal role in overseeing the domestic eavesdropping program.
Several also voiced skepticism about the president's constitutional authority to
order wiretapping on Americans without a court order.   PAGE A19

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants to Be Proud Of

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 751 words


Everybody says the Republicans are split on immigration. The law-and-order types
want to close the border. The free-market types want plentiful labor. But today
I want to talk to the social conservatives, because it's you folks who are
really going to swing this debate.

I'd like to get you to believe what Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas believes:
that a balanced immigration bill is consistent with conservative values. I'd
like to try to persuade the evangelical leaders in the tall grass to stop hiding
on this issue.

My first argument is that the exclusionists are wrong when they say the current
wave of immigration is tearing our social fabric. The facts show that the recent
rise in immigration hasn't been accompanied by social breakdown, but by social
repair. As immigration has surged, violent crime has fallen by 57 percent. Teen
pregnancies and abortion rates have declined by a third. Teenagers are having
fewer sexual partners and losing their virginity later. Teen suicide rates have
dropped. The divorce rate for young people is on the way down.

Over the past decade we've seen the beginnings of a moral revival, and some of
the most important work has been done by Catholic and evangelical immigrant
churches, by faith-based organizations like the Rev. Luis Cortes's Nueva
Esperanza, by Hispanic mothers and fathers monitoring their kids. The
anti-immigration crowd says this country is under assault. But if that's so,
we're under assault by people who love their children.

My second argument is that the immigrants themselves are like a booster shot of
traditional morality injected into the body politic. Immigrants work hard. They
build community groups. They have traditional ideas about family structure, and
they work heroically to make them a reality.

This is evident in everything from divorce rates (which are low, given
immigrants' socioeconomic status) to their fertility rates (which are high) and
even the way they shop.

Hispanics and Hispanic immigrants have less money than average Americans, but
they spend what they have on their families, usually in wholesome ways.
According to Simmons Research, Hispanics are 57 percent more likely than average
Americans to have purchased children's furniture in the past year.
Mexican-Americans spend 93 percent more on children's music.

According to the government's Consumer Expenditure Survey, Hispanics spend more
on gifts, on average, than other Americans. They're more likely to support their
parents financially. They're more likely to have big family dinners at home.

This isn't alien behavior. It's admirable behavior, the antidote to the
excessive individualism that social conservatives decry.

My third argument is that good values lead to success, and that immigrants'
long-term contributions more than compensate for the short-term strains they
cause. There's no use denying the strains immigration imposes on schools,
hospitals and wage levels in some markets (but economists are sharply divided on
this).

So over the long haul, today's immigrants succeed. By the second generation,
most immigrant families are middle class and paying taxes that more than make up
for the costs of the first generation. By the third generation, 90 percent speak
English fluently and 50 percent marry non-Latinos.

My fourth argument is that government should be at least as virtuous as the
immigrants themselves. Right now (as under Bill Frist's legislation), government
pushes immigrants into a chaotic underground world. The Judiciary Committee's
bill, which Senator Brownback supports, would tighten the borders, but it would
also reward virtue. Immigrants who worked hard, paid fines, paid their taxes,
stayed out of trouble and waited their turn would have a chance to become
citizens. This isn't government enabling vice; it's government at its best,
encouraging middle-class morality.

Social conservatives, let me ask you to consider one final thing. Women who have
recently arrived from Mexico have bigger, healthier babies than more affluent
non-Hispanic white natives. That's because strong family and social networks
support these pregnant women, reminding them what to eat and do. But the longer
they stay, and the more assimilated they become, the more bad habits they
acquire and the more problems their subsequent babies have.

Please ask yourself this: As we contemplate America's moral fiber, do the real
threats come from immigrants, or are some people merely blaming them for sins
that are already here?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Road to Dubai

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 752 words


For now, at least, the immigration issue is mainly hurting the Republican Party,
which is divided between those who want to expel immigrants and those who want
to exploit them. The only thing the two factions seem to have in common is
mean-spiritedness.

But immigration remains a difficult issue for liberals. Let me say a bit more
about the subject of my last column, the uncomfortable economics of immigration,
then turn to what really worries me: the political implications of a large
nonvoting work force.

About the economics: the crucial divide isn't between legal and illegal
immigration; it's between high-skilled and low-skilled immigrants. High-skilled
immigrants -- say, software engineers from South Asia -- are, by any criterion I
can think of, good for America. But the effects of low-skilled immigration are
mixed at best.

True, there are large benefits for the low-skilled migrants, who may find even a
minimum-wage U.S. job a big step up. Immigration also raises the total income of
native-born Americans, although reasonable estimates suggest that these gains
amount to no more than a fraction of 1 percent.

But low-skilled immigration depresses the wages of less-skilled native-born
Americans. And immigrants increase the demand for public services, including
health care and education. Estimates indicate that low-skilled immigrants don't
pay enough in taxes to cover the cost of providing these services.

All of these effects, except for the gains for the immigrants themselves, are
fairly small. Some of my friends say that's the point I should stress:
immigration is a wonderful thing for the immigrants, and claims that immigrants
are undermining American workers and taxpayers are hugely overblown -- end of
story.

But it's important to be intellectually honest, even when it hurts. Moreover,
what really worries me isn't the narrow economics -- it's the political economy,
the effects of having a disenfranchised labor force.

Imagine, for a moment, a future in which America becomes like Kuwait or Dubai, a
country where a large fraction of the work force consists of illegal immigrants
or foreigners on temporary visas -- and neither group has the right to vote.
Surely this would be a betrayal of our democratic ideals, of government of the
people, by the people. Moreover, a political system in which many workers don't
count is likely to ignore workers' interests: it's likely to have a weak social
safety net and to spend too little on services like health care and education.

This isn't idle speculation. Countries with high immigration tend, other things
equal, to have less generous welfare states than those with low immigration.
U.S. cities with ethnically diverse populations -- often the result of
immigration -- tend to have worse public services than those with more
homogeneous populations.

Of course, America isn't Dubai. But we're moving in that direction. As of 2002,
according to the Urban Institute, 14 percent of U.S. workers, and 20 percent of
low-wage workers, were immigrants. Only a third of these immigrant workers were
naturalized citizens. So we already have a large disenfranchised work force, and
it's growing rapidly. The goal of immigration reform should be to reverse that
trend.

So what do I think of the Senate Judiciary Committee's proposal, which is
derived from a plan sponsored by John McCain and Ted Kennedy? I'm all in favor
of one provision: offering those already here a possible route to permanent
residency and citizenship. Since we aren't going to deport more than 10 million
people, we need to integrate those people into our society.

But I'm puzzled by the plan to create a permanent guest-worker program, one that
would admit 400,000 more workers a year (and you know that business interests
would immediately start lobbying for an increase in that number). Isn't
institutionalizing a disenfranchised work force a big step away from democracy?

For a hard-line economic conservative like Mr. McCain, the advantages to
employers of a cheap work force may be more important than the violation of
democratic principles. But why would someone like Mr. Kennedy go along? Is the
point to help potential immigrants, or is it to buy support from business
interests?

Either way, it's a dangerous route to go down. America's political system is
already a lot less democratic in practice than it is on paper, and creating a
permanent nonvoting working class would make things worse. The road to Dubai may
be paved with good intentions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

New York City Losing Blacks, Census Shows

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words


An accelerating exodus of American-born blacks, coupled with slight declines in
birthrates and a slowing influx of Caribbean and African immigrants, have
produced a decline in New York City's black population for the first time since
the draft riots during the Civil War, according to preliminary census estimates.

An analysis of the latest figures, which show the city with 30,000 fewer black
residents in 2004 than in 2000, also revealed stark contrasts in the migration
patterns of blacks and whites.

While white New Yorkers are still more likely than blacks to leave the city,
they are also more likely to relocate to the nearby suburbs (which is where half
the whites move) or elsewhere in the Northeast, or to scatter to other cities
and retirement communities across the country. Moreover, New York remains a
magnet for whites from most other states.

In contrast, 7 in 10 black people who are moving leave the region altogether.
And, unlike black migrants from Chicago, Philadelphia and Detroit, most of them
go to the South, especially to Florida, the Carolinas and Georgia. The rest move
to states like California, Ohio, Illinois and Michigan with large black
populations.

Also, New York has a net loss of blacks to all but five states, and those net
gains are minuscule.

''This suggests that the black movement out of New York City is much more of an
evacuation than the movement for whites,'' said William Frey, a demographer for
the Brookings Institution, who analyzed migration patterns for The New York
Times.

The implications for a city of 8.2 million people could be profound. If the
trend continues, not only will the black share of New York's population, which
dipped below 25 percent in 2000, continue to decline, particularly if the
overall population grows, but a higher proportion of black New Yorkers will be
foreign-born or the children of immigrants.

Many blacks are leaving for economic reasons. Jacqueline Dowdell moved to North
Carolina last year from Hamilton Heights in Upper Manhattan in search of a lower
cost of living. Once an editor at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black
Culture in Harlem, she now works as a communications coordinator for a health
care company in Chapel Hill.

''It was a difficult decision, but it was a financial decision,'' said Ms.
Dowdell, 39, adding that the move also gave her time to research her family's
roots in Virginia.

''I just continued to spend so much money trying to live without thinking about
the future,'' she said. ''I was focused on surviving, and I wanted to make a
commitment to more quality of life.''

The analysis of migration from 1995 to 2000 also suggests that many blacks,
already struggling with high housing costs in New York City, are being priced
out of nearby suburbs, too.

Among black married couples with children, only about one in three who left the
city moved to nearby suburbs, compared with two in three white married couples
with children. More black married couples with children moved to the South than
to the suburbs.

Over all, more black residents who left New York City moved to Florida than to
New Jersey.

But black residents who left the city were more likely to remain in the region
if they had higher incomes and were college educated. And while black migrants
to the South include some aspiring professionals, a larger share were lower
income, less educated and elderly.

''All this suggests that New York City out-migration of blacks is unique in its
scope -- net losses to most states -- and pattern -- especially destined to the
South,'' Dr. Frey said.

Reversing a tide from the South who altered the complexion of the city earlier
in the 20th century, the number of American-born blacks leaving the city has
exceeded the number arriving since at least the late 1970's.

''You have older people who leave the North just to go back to a place that is
kind of slower, or where they grew up or went on vacation when they were younger
-- and when you retire, your money doesn't go very far in New York,'' said
Sylviane A. Diouf, a historian and researcher at the Schomburg Center and
co-author of a study of black migration. ''You also have young college-educated
people who find that the South has lots of economic potential and a lower cost
of living.''

The slower pace appealed to Gladys Favours, who worked for a city councilwoman
from Brooklyn and moved from East New York seven years ago to a town of fewer
than 1,000 people near Charlotte, N.C, after she was unable to find another job.

''I lived in New York for almost 50 years and loved what it offered in schools,
entertainment and convenience, but I lost my job and finding one at my age would
pay half of what I was making,'' she said. ''I was divorced and moved here with
my 11-year-old -- I was afraid of the crime, and black boys don't fare too well
in New York.''

Her son is now in college and she is working for the county emergency services
department.

''I'm 60 now,'' she said. ''I think I was ready for the quietness.''

While residential segregation persists, racial and ethnic minorities, including
immigrants, have become more mobile, with lower-skilled workers lured to growing
cities in the South and West for construction, retail and service jobs and
professionals applying for the same opportunities that had been previously open
mainly to whites.

''Some foreign-born blacks are moving out, too -- to the suburbs as well as to
other parts of the country, particularly South Florida,'' said Nancy Foner, a
distinguished professor of sociology at Hunter College.

Andrew Hacker, a political scientist at Queens College, cited other factors.
''After 15 or 20 years with, say the Postal Service or U.P.S., employees can put
in for transfers to other parts of the country,'' he said. ''As a result, more
than a few middle-class black New Yorkers have been moving back to states like
North Carolina and Georgia, where they have family ties, living costs are lower,
neighborhoods are safer, schools are often better and life is less hectic.''

In 1997, Christine Wiggins retired as an assistant bank manager after 25 years.
She left Queens Village and followed her brother, who worked for New York City
Transit, to the Poconos.

''It was hard for him, he had to commute,'' she said. ''But we wanted to get
away from the city.''

The East Stroudsburg, Pa., area, where radio advertisements lured first-time
homebuyers, was among the 15 top destinations for black residents leaving New
York City. More black New Yorkers moved to Monroe County in the Poconos than to
either the Rockland or Orange County suburbs of New York.

Over all, the city's black population grew by 115,000 in the 1990's, a 6.2
percent increase. (New Yorkers in the armed forces or who are institutionalized
are not counted as residents.)

Those early estimates of the 30,000 drop in black population since 2000, a 1.5
percent decline, suggest that among blacks, the arrival of newcomers from abroad
and higher birthrates among immigrants were not keeping pace with the outflow.

Last year, a study by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group,
found that while the gush of immigrants continued into the 21st century, it
appeared to have slowed somewhat.

A net loss of black residents, even between censuses, would apparently be the
first since the Civil War. In 1863, after mobs attacked blacks during the draft
riots, many fled New York City. ''By 1865,'' Leslie M. Harris wrote in ''In the
Shadow of Slavery,'' the city's ''black population had plummeted to just under
10,000, its lowest since 1820.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2006



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Monday about census figures showing the
first decline in New York City's black population since the Civil War misstated
the proximity of Littleton, N.C., the new home of one black migrant, to
Charlotte. Littleton is about 200 miles from Charlotte, not nearby.

A front-page article on Monday about census figures showing the first decline in
New York City's black population since the Civil War misstated the proximity of
Littleton, N.C., the new home of one black migrant, to Charlotte. Littleton is
about 200 miles from Charlotte, not nearby.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jacqueline Dowdell, in Carrboro, N.C. She left Manhattan last
year. ''It was a difficult decision,'' she said. (Photo by Mary Haggerty for The
New York Times)
After Christine Wiggins retired as an assistant bank manager in Queens, she
moved to the Poconos. (Photo by Jane Therese for The New York Times)
 The slow pace in Littleton, N.C., attracted Gladys Favours from Brooklyn. ''I
think I was ready for the quietness,'' she said. (Photo by Mary Haggerty for The
New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart/Map:Top destinations for blacks who moved from New
York CityTo locations outside the New York metropolitan area. Figures are the
number that moved from April 1995 to April 2000.Atlanta: 13,650Miami:
12,580Orlando: 4,390Virginia Beach: 6,450Washington: 8,070Philadelphia:
6,840Where New York City residents moved in the five-year period(TOTAL) BLACKS:
212,820 -- WHITES: 571,710BLACKSNew York suburbs: 30%Northeast: 14%South:
49%Midwest: 3%West: 4%WHITESNew York suburbs: 50%Northeast: 15%South:
20%Midwest: 4%West: 11%Map of the United States highlights the aforementioned
cities and their respective figures.(Source by Analysis of Census Bureau data by
William Frey, Brookings Institution)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 245 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Paul Krugman)

                             March 27, 2006 Monday

Notes on Immigration

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 643 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration is an intensely painful topic for a liberal like myself,
because it places basic principles in conflict. Should migration from Mexico to
the United States be celebrated, because it helps very poor people find a better
life? Or should it be condemned, because it drives down the wages of working
Americans and threatens to [&#8230;]


Immigration is an intensely painful topic for a liberal like myself, because it
places basic principles in conflict. Should migration from Mexico to the United
States be celebrated, because it helps very poor people find a better life? Or
should it be condemned, because it drives down the wages of working Americans
and threatens to undermine the welfare state? I suspect that my March 27 column
will anger people on all sides; I wish the economic research on immigration were
more favorable than it is.

In writing this piece I drew mainly on three sources, research papers by
economists I know and trust. First is a paper, "Immigration Policy," by Gordon
H. Hanson (pdf) of the University of California at San Diego, . Mr. Hanson is
one of my former students, and a leading expert on all matters having to do with
U.S.-Mexican economic relations, especially issues having to do with income
distribution. This paper gives a good overview of the (small) gains from
immigration and the fiscal impacts.

Second is a paper by George Borjas and Lawrence Katz of Harvard, "The Evolution
of the Mexican-Born Workforce in the United States." (pdf). Mr. Borjas is a
leading expert on immigration issues; Mr. Katz is one of America's leading labor
economists.

Third is a paper by Mr. Hanson, Matthew Slaughter of Dartmouth (another former
student) and Kenneth Scheve (pdf) of the University of Michigan. This paper
alerted me to the way immigration penalizes more generous states.

Like all research results, the conclusions of these papers may have to be
revised in the light of future research. But I'm afraid that the three negative
conclusions I stressed in the column are fairly robust.

First, the benefits of immigration to the population already here are small. The
reason is that immigrant workers are, at least roughly speaking, paid their
"marginal product": an immigrant worker is paid roughly the value of the
additional goods and services he or she enables the U.S. economy to produce.
That means that there isn't anything left over to increase the income of the
people already here.

You might ask why, in that case, there are any gains from immigration. The
answer is that when a country receives a lot of immigrants, the wage paid to
immigrants reflects the marginal product of the last immigrant, which is less
than that of earlier immigrants. So there is some gain. But as Mr. Hanson
explains in his paper, reasonable calculations suggest that we're talking about
very small numbers, perhaps as little as 0.1 percent of GDP.

There is, by the way, a possible out from this argument in the case of
high-skill immigrants. You could argue that, say, South Asian engineers who move
to Silicon Valley add to the dynamism of the region, generating benefits much
larger than their wages. (Economists know that I'm talking about "positive
externalities.") But that's not an argument you can easily make about Mexican
migrants who haven't completed high school.

My second negative point is that immigration reduces the wages of domestic
workers who compete with immigrants. That's just supply and demand: we're
talking about large increases in the number of low-skill workers relative to
other inputs into production, so it's inevitable that this means a fall in
wages. Mr. Borjas and Mr. Katz have to go through a lot of number-crunching to
turn that general proposition into specific estimates of the wage impact, but
the general point seems impossible to deny.

Finally, the fiscal burden of low-wage immigrants is also pretty clear. Mr.
Hanson uses some estimates from the National Research Council to get a specific
number, around 0.25 percent of G.D.P. Again, I think that you'd be hard pressed
to find any set of assumptions under which Mexican immigrants are a net fiscal
plus, but equally hard pressed to make the burden more than a fraction of a
percent of G.D.P.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2006 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
