
                               1 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 20, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Tuition And Immigrants

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 97 words


University of California regents raised tuition for out-of-state and foreign
students on Thursday over objections that the increase might conflict with a
policy that gives some illegal immigrants an in-state tuition break.

This fall, nonresident students will pay more than $16,000 annually in tuition
and fees, an increase of about 16 percent for undergraduates and 4 percent for
graduate students. State residents do not pay tuition. Some regents questioned
the increase in light of the board's January vote to exempt some illegal
immigrants from paying the out-of-state rate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 24, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BULLETIN BOARD;
Pataki Backs Lower Tuition for Immigrants

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson (NYT)

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 78 words


GOV. GEORGE E. PATAKI has announced that he will work on legislation to permit
illegal immigrants to pay the lower in-state tuition rates at the state's public
universities.

Immigrants had long been allowed to pay the lower rates if they could
demonstrate that they were state residents. But late last year, the City
University of New York discovered that federal law no longer permitted such a
policy unless a state specifically allowed it.   Karen W. Arenson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In-State Tuition for Immigrants

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki signed a law yesterday allowing
undocumented immigrants to pay resident tuition rates at the State University of
New York and the City University of New York. Below, from left, Daisy Torres,
Angelo Cabrera and Liliana Diaz Hidalgo, supporters of the law. (Photographs by
Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Couple Sentenced for Roles In Immigrant Smuggling Ring

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 687 words


A former immigration lawyer and his wife were each sentenced to just over eight
years in prison yesterday for their roles in an immigrant-smuggling ring that
federal prosecutors said brought thousands of Chinese into the United States
illegally between 1993 and 2000.

The lawyer, Robert E. Porges, who ran one of the city's busiest immigration
practices, admitted when he pleaded guilty in February that he helped the
immigrants make up false stories of persecution to improve their chances of
obtaining asylum. His wife, Sheery Lu Porges, said she frequently met with the
smugglers, known as snakeheads, who typically kept custody of the illegal
immigrants until they were paid for their services. The fees could be $40,000 to
$50,000.

Mr. Porges, who is in his early 60's, has maintained that he was unaware of his
firm's role in directly aiding the smugglers, but Judge Denise L. Cote of
Federal District Court in Manhattan, who sentenced the couple, said his denial
was ludicrous.

"He knew what his firm did and he was an integral part of it," Judge Cote said.
"He knew smugglers. He met smugglers personally. He understood that they were
bringing the work to the firm. He understood that they were a principal reason
the firm was so profitable."

The judge added: "He understood the danger posed to the aliens of their being
held in custody, essentially kidnapped until the monies were paid. He understood
the danger that that posed to them of physical abuse, threats, and worse in some
instances."

Mr. Porges and his wife each pleaded guilty to racketeering and tax evasion. The
judge imposed the stiffest sentence within the federal guidelines, which
recommended terms of 78 to 97 months.

Mr. Porges, who has been disbarred, seemed a broken man. "I believed I was
helping people," he said. "It's totally wrong though. Respect for the law is
more important. Whatever I can do to clean up this industry, I would like to do
that."

Ms. Porges, 49, who recently gave birth to twin girls, was in tears. "All my
life, I try to help people," she told the judge in halting English. "I feel I
let my family down." Ms. Porges, who is not a lawyer, is a naturalized American
citizen from China.

Mr. Porges was also fined $125,000, and his wife was fined $25,000. The couple
were ordered to forfeit to the government $6 million, which included their home
in Stamford, Conn., and $2.1 million in cash, which prosecutors said was the
proceeds of their illegal activities.

The judge refused to allow Ms. Porges to delay surrendering until later this
fall, as her lawyer requested, so she could nurse and wean her infant daughters,
who were born about two months premature.

Judge Cote said she was concerned Ms. Porges might try to flee the country,
given her extensive knowledge of immigrant smuggling. "At this point, I'm
putting her in jail," the judge said bluntly.

After court, Larry Bronson, the lawyer for Mr. Porges, said he felt the judge
"was unduly harsh on both defendants."

Richard W. Levitt, the lawyer for Ms. Porges, said late yesterday that he had
filed new papers, including letters from two physicians, asking the judge to
reconsider the decision to immediately jail his client.

Two federal prosecutors, Matthew L. Biben and Jason M. Weinstein, said in court
papers that the Porgeses' scheme "demonstrated a level of deviousness and greed
that is particularly shocking in light of the human suffering that was the
wellspring of their profits."

They noted that the firm was so well established in the immigrant-smuggling
trade that snakeheads in China would provide its phone number to customers
before or during their voyage to the United States.

They also said that Ms. Porges and her staff would advise snakeheads which
border crossings to use, and coordinated their efforts to keep immigrants
hostage until they were able to secure the payment of smuggling fees from their
relatives.

"Mr. Porges made a mockery of his oath as a lawyer," Mr. Weinstein told the
judge in court.

Prosecutors said 12 other employees of the firm pleaded guilty in the scheme,
while another was convicted at trial, and yet another is a fugitive.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 27, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Immigrant Tuition Legislation

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 107 words


Many illegal immigrants will once again be eligible to pay lower in-state
tuition at the City University of New York and the State University of New York
under legislation approved by the Legislature. Gov. George E. Pataki supports
the measure. Immigrants who had lived in New York for more than a year had paid
the in-state rate until this winter, when CUNY officials discovered it was no
longer legal under federal law. The state legislation will again make that legal
for students who have attended a New York high school for at least two years or
a program for a high school equivalency diploma in New York.
   Karen W. Arenson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Hackensack: Immigrant Freed From Detention

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 77 words


A Nigerian man whose accounts of abuse led to reforms at the Elizabeth Detention
Center has been freed after spending nearly four years behind bars.

An immigration judge granted the man, Oluwole Aboyade, 23, relief from
deportation under a United Nations convention against torture, The Record of
Hackensack reported yesterday. The decision was issued Wednesday by Judge
Mirlande Tadal, who had turned down Mr. Aboyade's earlier requests for political
asylum.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 16, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINED;
Immigrants Refuse Meals to Protest Treatment

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 313 words


Seven immigrants detained at a county jail in New Jersey since the Sept. 11
terror attacks are staging a hunger strike to protest their treatment by federal
immigration officials, county officials said yesterday.

But the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which pays the jail to house the
detainees, said it was unaware of any hunger strikers. Nonetheless, the agency
said it would take steps to address concerns of detainees at the jail, the
Hudson County Correctional Center, including serving halal meals, which adhere
to Islamic dietary rules, beginning today.

Jacob de Lemos, a county spokesman, said two of the seven detainees began
refusing to take meals two weeks ago, and have been joined in a hunger strike by
five others. He would not identify the detainees. The jail, in Kearny, N.J.,
about five miles west of Manhattan, was holding 303 immigration service
detainees yesterday, most of them rounded up since the attacks, Mr. de Lemos
said. "They feel that the I.N.S. does not visit them enough at the jail or let
them know what's going on with their cases," he said.

Mr. de Lemos said the hunger strikers had been drinking fluids and were under
medical observation in their cells, which are in a separate pod from the jail's
criminal defendants and convicts. He said it was unclear whether the detainees
had lost any weight. "They're not taking the food that we're giving them, but
that doesn't mean they're not eating, either," he said.

An immigration service spokesman in Newark, Kerry Gill, said yesterday that he
was unaware of anyone who had met the agency's definition of a hunger strike: a
refusal to eat for 72 hours straight. He said 12 immigration service detainees
at the Hudson County jail had sent a letter to the agency demanding halal meals
and information about their cases. The detainees are mostly those who have
overstayed temporary visas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Ali al-Maqtari

BYLINE:  By David Firestone

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 520 words


In the two months he spent in a detention center in Mason, Tenn., Ali al-Maqtari
had a lot of time to think about why he had lost his liberty. But even now, two
weeks after he was released with a simple, "You're free to go," he is unable to
explain it.

"They said this is a free country, right?" he said. "But for two months I was
locked up, I suffered there and my wife had to leave the Army, and for something
I didn't do. I really don't understand it, and no one will explain it to me."

Immigration officials will not discuss the matter. But court papers show that
Mr. Maqtari was detained because authorities found two box cutters in his car,
along with postcards of New York City, as he drove to Fort Campbell, Ky., where
his wife wasreporting for Army duty on Sept. 15.

Although an immigration judge asked the government to present more solid
evidence for holding Mr. Maqtari, the government declined to do so, saying only
that he might be part of a larger terrorist "mosaic." "What may seem trivial to
some may appear of great moment to those within the F.B.I. or the intelligence
community," wrote Michael E. Rolince, the F.B.I.'s international terrorism
section chief, in an Oct. 11 affidavit justifying Mr. Maqtari's detention. He
added that the bureau was unable to rule out the possibility he was linked to
the Sept. 11 attacks.

Mr. Maqtari, 26, was born in Yemen, studied in France and came to the United
States on a tourist visa last year with hopes of becoming a French teacher. He
met Tiffinay Hughes, a native of North Carolina and a convert to Islam, through
an online chat room, and they were married in June. He had planned to study at
Southern Connecticut State University in New Haven, but his wife, a member of
the National Guard, wanted to enlist, so he drove her to Fort Campbell.

At the gate, the two were ordered out of their car and questioned while the car
was searched, Mr. Maqtari said. His lawyer, Michael J. Boyle of New Haven, said
her picture had already been posted at the guardhouse because she had picked up
her military orders in Massachusetts on Sept. 13 wearing an Islamic head
covering. While he was taken to Memphis for questioning, she was trailed by
guards around the base for weeks, while other soldiers openly asked her if she
was a spy. She said base officers encouraged her to take an honorable discharge,
and she finally did so on Oct. 28.

Meanwhile, Mr. Maqtari was held at the West Tennessee Detention Center for
weeks, able to speak by phone to his wife once a week. On Oct. 1, an immigration
judge agreed to release him on $50,000 bond, but the immigration service
appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals, saying he was a danger to the
community. The board said the service could continue to hold Mr. Maqtari, but
asked for additional proof. A month later, when the service had provided no more
proof than the Rolince affidavit, the board said Mr. Maqtari could go.

The couple has moved back to New Haven, where both plan to study education and
look for work.

"I just want to get my life back," he said. "I just hope people will trust me
now."   David Firestone

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION HEARINGS;
States Are Told to Keep Detainee Information Secret

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 18


The Bush administration ordered state and local officials today not to release
information about immigration detainees even as the government lost a crucial
related battle in federal appeals court.

The new directive was issued by James W. Ziglar, the commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, in consultation with the Justice
Department. The rule prohibits state and local employees from disclosing the
names of immigration detainees in their custody. The regulation follows a ruling
last month by a New Jersey judge that ordered two county jails to release the
names of immigrants detained after Sept. 11.

The order is part of the government effort to keep secret the names of people
taken into custody after Sept. 11 and bar access to their immigration hearings.

That effort was dealt a legal setback today when a federal appeals court in
Cincinnati said the government must release transcripts of past immigration
court hearings in the case of Rabih Haddad, a detainee and a co-founder of a
Muslim charity whose assets the government has frozen.

The court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, said there
was just a "slim likelihood" that it would reverse a lower court decision that
compelled the government to open Mr. Haddad's future immigration hearings.

Michigan newspapers, including The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News, have
sued to open the hearing of Mr. Haddad, a native of Lebanon who lived with his
family in Ann Arbor. The newspapers were joined in the suit by the American
Civil Liberties Union and Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan.

The A.C.L.U. has filed similar suits to gain information about detainees in
federal and state court in New Jersey. The suits pit First Amendment rights
against a law approved after the Sept. 11 attacks that permits the secret
detention of immigrants.

The decisions in Mr. Haddad's case are the only ones that the federal courts
have made on the detentions after Sept. 11.

"This opinion leaves no doubt about what this panel believes," said Lee Gelernt,
senior staff lawyer for the Immigrants' Rights Project of the civil liberties
union.

Mr. Gelernt said the decisions of the appeals and district courts were critical
early barometers of the federal courts' views.

Todd Gaziano, director of the center for legal and judicial studies at the
Heritage Foundation, which has supported the administration's policy, said the
government could press other cases in other circuits.

"It's a skirmish," Mr. Gaziano said of the newspapers' suit. "It's not likely,
in and of itself, to be that determinative of the larger legal issue."

The civil liberties union criticized the new directive, saying the order was an
effort to circumvent the authority of state legislatures that adopt public
information laws and state courts that enforce them.

Bush administration officials acknowledged that the rule, issued under the
Immigration Nationality Act, had at least in part been prompted by the suit in
New Jersey that sought to release detainees' names.

"Disclosure of that information could provide terrorist organizations with
information that threatens the lives of American citizens and the national
security of the United States," said Mark Corallo, a spokesman for the Justice
Department.

In Mr. Haddad's case, the government will now have to appeal to the Supreme
Court to withhold transcripts of past hearings. Mr. Haddad, a co-founder of the
Global Relief Foundation, was taken into custody in December because his visa
had expired.

Two weeks ago, a judge in Federal District Court here sided with the newspapers
and rejected government arguments that opening the hearings would pose a
security risk. Last week, the Justice Department asked the appeals court for a
stay while it considered the case. It received a temporary stay. Today, the
appeals court rejected a longer stay. That would have let the government
withhold Mr. Haddad's immigration file while the appeals court considers the
case.

The decision today will require the government to allow the press access to an
immigration hearing scheduled for Mr. Haddad on Tuesday, unless it can get a
postponement or the stay from the Supreme Court.

The government continues to argue that open hearings would compromise
investigations of terrorist threats. The appeals court said First Amendment
rights took precedence.

"We recognize that the government alleges substantial injuries to the integrity
of its terrorism-related investigation," the decision said, "but the likelihood
of such harms occurring in this particular case is remote, given the fact that
information about Haddad's detention has already been disseminated."

The decision was reached by a panel of Judges R. Guy Cole Jr., Martha Craig
Daughtrey and Karen Nelson Moore.

The immigration court has refused to give reporters access to records of Mr.
Haddad's previous hearings. A lawyer for The Free Press, Herschel Fink, said he
would ask a federal district judge here to hold Elizabeth Hacker, an immigration
court judge, in contempt on Friday if reporters were denied access again.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 30, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 153 words


To the Editor:

Re "Gephardt Is Preparing a Measure to Legalize Illegal Immigrants" (news
article, July 23):

As a legal immigrant from Chile, I am ashamed of our political leaders' constant
battling to win the Hispanic vote.

Representative Richard A. Gephardt's irresponsible move proves again that it's
impossible for the Republican Party to outpander the Democrats.

The losers in this bidding contest for the Mexican-American vote are those
would-be immigrants who play by the rules and don't jump the queue, and
everyday, law-abiding citizens who don't believe in rewarding scofflaws with
citizenship.

U.S. English urges leaders to help our legal immigrants escape the linguistic
welfare system in which they have barely been surviving and teach them English
before throwing open our doors to a select group who have broken our laws to get
here.

MAURO E. MUJICA
Chairman and C.E.O.
U.S. English
Washington, July 26, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 10, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scores of Pakistanis Are Deported by U.S.

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 9


The Justice Department last month quietly deported 131 Pakistani citizens who
had been swept up in the post-Sept. 11 crackdown on foreigners in the country
illegally, officials said tonight.

The department chartered a plane on June 28 to return the Pakistanis, who had
received deportation orders from an immigration judge, according to Russell A.
Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Authorities said the Pakistanis had no known links to the terrorist attacks.

"We worked closely with the Pakistani government and had excellent cooperation
from them in the repatriation," Mr. Bergeron said.

Mr. Bergeron said that 30 immigration officers were involved in the deportation,
which he said was "neither unusual nor unprecedented." Such actions are always
kept secret beforehand for security reasons, he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Found Dead in Truck; 2 Drivers Are Charged

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 28


Two men were charged with murder early this morning in the deaths of two illegal
immigrants found inside their truck after a sweltering 12-hour ride that
immigration officials said left at least 13 others hospitalized on a day when
temperatures neared triple digits.

Immigration officials said up to 40 people, including at least 5 children, were
crammed into a truck loaded with medical supplies, leaving little room. The
truck grew so hot on the trip from the Mexican border to the Dallas area that
the people inside tried to cut a hole in the roof but failed. Each passenger
paid $1,500 to $2,000, immigrations officials said.

"For all intents and purposes, there was no ventilation," said Lynn Ligon, a
spokesman with the Dallas office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
"In an air-conditioned car, it would be a long drive. In an unair-conditioned,
crowded, smelly 18-wheeler with no water, you can imagine how unbearable it
would be."

The drivers, Troy Dock, 30, and Jason Sprague, 27, were each charged with one
count of murder and were held by the Collin County Sheriff's Department, in
suburban Dallas. The two men, who worked for Boyd Logistics in El Paso, could
face more charges. Investigators said that the men were cooperating and that the
company had denied knowledge of a smuggling operation.

The deaths are a reminder of the risks that people south of the border often
take to reach the United States. Since 1998, more than 1,300 immigrants have
died trying to cross the border, often on foot. Most of them have been found
collapsed in the baking deserts near the Rio Grande. Thirty-three people have
died this year.

Trucks driven by people known as coyotes are often used to transport
undocumented immigrants directly from the border to large cities, where the
demand for cheap labor is high.

Lt. John Norton of the Collin County Sheriff's Department said the truckers had
apparently picked up the people in El Paso, though investigators have not
determined precisely where or who made the arrangements. The Texas Department of
Public Safety reported that the truck began its route in Santa Fe, N.M., then
headed to El Paso for an overnight stay on Friday.

"They said they picked up the immigrants in El Paso and brought them to Dallas,"
Lieutenant Norton said.

On Saturday, at least 13 people were taken to hospitals in Dallas. Mr. Ligon
said that as of this afternoon, five of those people had been discharged to the
immigration service. The others remained hospitalized, including three in
critical condition.

"These guys were sealed into a pretty warm place without water," said William
McEwan, spokesman for Methodist Hospitals of Dallas. "You just need to get them
to the hospital and take care of them."

The truck was first noticed early Saturday afternoon at Love's Truck Stop, near
Interstate 20 in Dallas. Up to 40 people, dehydrated and weakened, were seen
spilling out of the back of the truck. When Dallas police officers arrived, some
of the immigrants fled, while others were too weak to run. Some begged for
water. A dozen or more people apparently got away.

The truck had already left the truck stop, headed north. When the truck pulled
over again, at a truck stop in Collin County, two state troopers, Kam Pierce and
Sammy Bryant, recognized it from a bulletin issued by the Dallas police.

"I popped the back, fearing there was somebody trapped inside," Trooper Pierce
said. He said the truck was nearly filled with boxes of medical supplies, except
for a narrow section toward the back where the people had pressed together. He
said the two dead men were wedged in a corner while a third man was nearby,
barely conscious. Trooper Pierce estimated that the temperature in the truck was
more than 130 degrees.

"It's sad," he said. "It's just really sad."

Mr. Ligon of the immigration service said all of the people in custody would be
given the option of a voluntary deportation or a hearing before an immigration
judge.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers removed two bodies Saturday from a truck near Anna,
Tex., that immigration officials suspect had been smuggling illegal immigrants.;
The authorities in suburban Dallas said Jason Sprague, left, and Troy Dock, the
drivers of the truck, were cooperating with the investigation. (Photographs by
Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: NOTEBOOKS;
In County Cavan, Joy at News of 4 Irish Survivors

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 238 words


The World Trade Center catastrophe has shattered hundreds of families abroad
whose loved ones were killed in the attack. But some families in County Cavan,
Ireland, were rejoicing yesterday.

Four Irish laborers were working in the trade center under assumed names because
they were illegal immigrants, according to The Irish Voice, a newspaper.
Although they were hospitalized with serious injuries, they escaped the attack.
But because they were admitted under the assumed names, their families never
knew they had survived.

So they believed the worst.

But with rumors swirling that the twin towers had many illegal Irish laborers
inside, Irish officials began making inquiries.

Caoimhghin O Caolain (KWEE van oh KWAY lahn), a member of Parliament who
represents County Cavan, said Tuesday the four men had been properly identified.

"You can imagine the relief of the families," he told The Irish Voice. "They had
suffered through the worst days of their lives."

A spokesman for the Irish consulate would not comment.

Niall O'Dowd, the newspaper's editor, said it would not be surprising that the
men kept their identities concealed given the "paranoia" that illegal immigrants
live with.

On Friday, Commissioner James Ziglar of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service promised that the I.N.S. would "not seek immigration status information
provided to local authorities in the rescue and recovery efforts."   DANIEL J.
WAKIN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Urges Immigrants to Report the Missing

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 704 words


The chief of the nation's immigration agency yesterday urged immigrants who are
in the country illegally to report friends and family missing in the trade
center attack and to seek disaster relief without fear of retribution.

The comments of the immigration commissioner, James W. Ziglar, came after
widespread reports that illegal immigrants were reluctant to file
missing-persons reports and seek disaster relief for fear that they would be
discovered and deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Their
fears are compounded by a 1996 law that requires states to report, four times a
year, information about people who are in the country illegally.

But Mr. Ziglar, speaking to reporters at a Roman Catholic church in Midtown
after a rare meeting with immigrants' advocates called at his behest, insisted
that his agency was not interested in knowing which victims of the terrorist
attacks were here illegally.

"We would not use that information against them," Mr. Ziglar said. "Frankly, we
don't want that information."

A spokesman for the I.N.S. in Washington added later that the reporting
requirement for states was not enforced and most states did not adhere to the
letter of the law.

Mr. Ziglar, appointed by President Bush in July, is in a delicate political
position in the wake of the terrorist attacks. With the heightened anxiety about
foreigners, the nation's immigration policy has come under intense scrutiny.
Members of Congress have called for measures like a moratorium on issuing
student visas, and the Bush administration has sought to expand its authority to
detain immigrants who are not yet United States citizens.

In measured tones yesterday, Mr. Ziglar cautioned that "people of ill will"
should not use the terrorist attack to foment anti-immigrant sentiment. "What
happened on Sept. 11 is not about immigrants; it's about evil," he said.

Nevertheless, he said, changes are likely to ensue, including a greater
vigilance on tracking foreign students and those who overstay their tourist or
temporary work visas. Negotiations over a program that would give legal status
to the nation's eight million illegal immigrants has been suspended.

"I don't personally see some sort of harsh anti-immigrant policy coming out of
this," he said. "I will weigh in on behalf of balance and good faith and
compassion."

The number of illegal immigrants who were among the dead, missing and injured in
the World Trade Center attack is impossible to know. According to State
Department estimates, the citizens of 79 countries are among the missing.

There has been vast confusion and fear in immigrant communities about seeking
relief. Families of those who are missing or injured are entitled to
compensation from the State Crime Victims Board. Those who are unemployed as a
result of the attacks, while ineligible for federally financed unemployment
insurance, can apply for aid from private charities, like the Red Cross and
United Way's Sept. 11 Fund.

Still, some immigrants who are here illegally have had great difficulty proving
where they worked and how much they earned. They were paid off the books, so
they have no pay stubs to offer. Some say they have had great difficulty
obtaining a letter from their employers. Others have gone to agencies to apply
for relief only to leave when asked for a Social Security number. For some
disaster aid, they are not required to furnish a Social Security number.

Yesterday, the advocates who met with the commissioner said they hoped that his
message was heard by workers at the relief centers.

Margie McHugh, director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an advocacy
group, added that while she was reassured by the commissioner's comments, she
still had concerns about how information about the immigration status of those
applying for aid would be maintained and used. Until recently, a city law
prohibited city workers from sharing such information with immigration
authorities. But that law was superseded by the 1996 federal welfare statutes.

"There will be extensive records kept of people who access these programs," Ms.
McHugh said. "In our view, it's essential that those records do not contain
information about an individual's immigration status."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE LAW;
U.S. Asks to Use Secret Evidence In Many Cases Of Deportation

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words


The Justice Department has asked a federal appeals court for a broad ruling to
authorize the use of secret evidence in cases in which it is trying to detain or
deport immigrants it contends are in the country illegally. For national
security reasons, the government argues that it should share secret evidence
with only immigration judges and not with the immigrants and their lawyers.

The court did not act on the request, because it decided the case before it on
other grounds. But legal experts say that request and other actions since Sept.
11 indicate that the government is moving toward the renewed use of secret
evidence in immigration cases, one of the most criticized of the Justice
Department's tactics in recent years.

The government, however, says that since President Bush's term began, it has not
broken his campaign pledge not to use secret evidence against immigrants.

In the 1990's, immigrants' groups and other critics of secret evidence gained
legal and political ground in their assertions that it relegates immigrants to a
legal netherworld, having to disprove accusations like whether they have
connections to terrorists without knowing specifically what the accusations are.
The practice had ground nearly to a halt in recent years after several federal
court decisions and under the criticism of some politicians.

Since Sept. 11, said Niels W. Frenzen, an immigration law specialist at the
University of Southern California: "That trend has been completely reversed. We
are in a much more secretive, much more one-sided process" in immigration
courts.

In a debate on Oct. 11, 2000, Mr. Bush sided with the critics of secret
evidence. "Arab-Americans are racially profiled on what's called secret
evidence," Mr. Bush said, adding that the government should "do something about
that."

Immigration officials and lawyers who support them often argue that it is naive
for critics to suggest that the government should supply all its evidence to
aliens suspected of terrorism and other crimes. To do so, they say, would supply
a road map to intelligence sources and methods that would thwart the
government's ability to stop terrorism.

In the case before the appeals court, six weeks ago, the Justice Department
lawyers said the use of secret evidence "would enhance the government's ability
to attack terrorist infrastructure."

Last week a Justice Department spokesman, Dan Nelson, said the department had
not used secret evidence in any case that started after Mr. Bush became
president. When asked if officials planned to use such evidence, Mr. Nelson
said: "It was a campaign promise by the president not to use secret evidence in
immigration cases. We've abided by that promise."

But some immigration lawyers say they are skeptical. "I would be shocked if it's
not being used," said David Cole, a professor at the Georgetown University Law
Center who handled several immigrants' cases in which secret evidence was used
in the Clinton administration. Immigration officials relied on secret evidence
in the early years of the Clinton administration but the Justice Department
backed away from the tactic toward the end of the Clinton years.

In addition to the government's appeals court request, immigration lawyers point
to a new Justice Department rule requiring closed immigration hearings in some
cases as evidence that the government may use secret evidence. That rule
requires that the hearings be held before judges with national security
clearances with "no visitors, no family, no press."

Before the terrorist attacks, a bill in Congress titled the Secret Evidence
Repeal Act, which would have sharply limited the circumstances under which
secret evidence could be used, was given a good chance of passing. But in the
midst of the terrorism investigation, that bill is languishing. And under new
antiterror laws passed since Sept. 11, the attorney general may detain for
deportation any noncitizen who he has "reasonable grounds to believe" endangers
national security.

"The legislation opens the door to secret evidence," because it does not require
the attorney general to disclose what the evidence is, said Nancy Chang, a
lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York.

Around the country some immigration lawyers say they have already detected that
they are arguing against evidence that they are not allowed to see. "It seemed
like I was trying to defend my client blindfolded and handcuffed," said Karen H.
Pennington, a Dallas lawyer who represented a Palestinian-born man who was
arrested in Texas on Sept. 22.

Ms. Pennington said lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization Service told
her there were items in her client's file that she should not see. She said
accusations against her client repeatedly appeared in news accounts that she
never learned officially.

Critics have long said the use of secret evidence violated the Constitution
because it deprived immigrants of any way to defend themselves. Courts have held
that immigrants who are in the United States have some due process rights when
they are facing assertions that they are in the country illegally.

Some lawyers who believe they have confronted secret evidence recently say
immigration service lawyers are not acknowledging what their evidence is. But
these lawyers say the immigration service lawyers also appear aware that the
courts have been critical of secret evidence so they are avoiding describing
their information in those terms.

"They never used the words 'secret evidence,' " said Donna L. Lipinski, a Denver
lawyer, "but they wouldn't disclose any of the reasons they had for holding my
clients."

Many of the cases dealing with immigrants who have been detained since Sept. 11
are still in the preliminary stages so lawyers for the immigration service have
not had to disclose to judges the government's case. Government lawyers might
disclose secret evidence to immigration judges when the cases reach the phase of
full deportation hearings.

It was in a case handled by Professor Cole in Miami this fall that the Justice
Department made the request for a broad ruling from the United States Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit permitting the use of secret evidence. The case,
which began long before Sept. 11, involved a Palestinian man officials said had
ties to terrorists.

In a brief filed in late October, Justice Department lawyers referred to a 1974
decision that approved of the use of secret evidence long before the string of
court cases in 1980's and 90's that found its use unconstitutional. The Supreme
Court has not considered the issue since a 1956 case in which it suggested that
the use of secret evidence might be permissible under the Constitution for
national security reasons.

In their argument in the Miami case, the Justice Department lawyers said that
"at a time when the nation is at war with terrorism and we are under attack," it
would be important to reaffirm the 1974 ruling permitting the use of secret
evidence as "important executive authority."

In several cases in recent years, federal judges said that when they finally
examined the government's secret evidence it was often thin or speculative. In
one case, a 30-year-old Palestinian immigrant in New Jersey spent more than 19
months in jail because of unspecified accusations of ties to terrorists. The
man, Hany Kiareldeen, always said that false reports about him might have come
from a former wife with whom he was having a child custody dispute.

In 1999, a federal district judge released Mr. Kiareldeen from custody, saying
he could not prove his innocence based on sketchy summaries of the secret
evidence against him.

"The I.N.S.' reliance on secret evidence," the judge, William H. Walls wrote,
"raises serious issues about the integrity of the adversarial process, the
impossibility of self-defense against undisclosed charges, and the reliability
of government processes initiated and prosecuted in darkness."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen H. Pennington says she detected the use of secret
evidence. (Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: COMPENSATION;
Legal Residency Sought for Undocumented Victims' Families

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 919 words


A coalition of immigrant groups, labor unions and religious organizations is
urging Congress to grant legal immigration status to the widows and children of
several dozen illegal immigrants who died in the World Trade Center disaster.

These groups argue that Congress should enact special legislation for these
families because they have already suffered greatly and because their
undocumented status makes it hard for them to collect many benefits received by
other survivors.

Carmen Mejia, whose Ecuadorean husband, Manuel Asitimbay, was a cook at Windows
on the World, said she was scared to apply for welfare and food stamps because
she feared government officials might tip off immigration authorities and have
her deported. Mrs. Mejia, a mother of four, also complained that she could not
receive some valuable benefits, like Social Security survivor benefits, that
widows who are citizens can receive.

"It's not fair," she said. "I'm scared to ask for help. And I can't get
everything my kids need."

The coalition's call is part of a broader effort by immigrant advocacy groups
and labor unions across the nation to grant legal status to the estimated eight
million illegal immigrants in the United States. After the Sept. 11 attacks
slowed the push by many immigrant groups for widespread legalization, some
immigrant advocates see their effort to focus on the families of World Trade
Center victims as a way to put the issue back in the spotlight.

Estimating that more than 60 of the workers who died on Sept. 11 were
undocumented, the coalition asserts that granting their families legal
immigration status would remove huge amounts of worry from their lives and would
enable them to qualify for needed benefits.

"These workers who lost their lives were trying to find a better life," said
Bill Granfield, president of Local 100 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant
Employees Union, which represented the Windows on the World workers. "It's the
coldest form of discrimination to have our government say that regarding some
long-term help, like Social Security survivor benefits, the families of some
victims can have it and others can't have it because of immigration policies."

The coalition includes the Interfaith Center of New York, the New York City
Central Labor Council, the Latino Workers Council, the New York Immigration
Coalition and Asociacion Tepeyac, an advocacy group for Mexican immigrants.

The coalition's members say they hope that lawmakers from New York or New Jersey
will introduce their proposal as a bill. Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey has
introduced a more limited bill that would grant citizenship posthumously to
World Trade Center workers with legal work visas. That would make it easier for
their survivors to become permanent residents or citizens.

As for the coalition's proposal to grant legal status to the survivors of
undocumented workers, Mr. Corzine said, "It is a legitimate issue." But he said
he held off on proposing that idea as part of his existing bill because it could
have hurt the bill's chance. Mr. Corzine said he might introduce another bill
along the lines of what the coalition is seeking if his current bill is enacted.

Bradley Tusk, a spokesman for Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, said Mr.
Schumer was studying the issue.

Union officials said that about 15 of the 79 Windows of the World workers who
died were illegal immigrants, who often used false papers to help get their
jobs. After Sept. 11, widows of those undocumented workers faced obstacles that
others did not have to face.

"I went to a lot of different organizations for help, and the first thing they
ask for is a Social Security number," Mrs. Mejia said. "That makes it hard."
Because she did not have a Social Security number, she said, she could not
qualify for Social Security death benefits or assistance from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. She praised the Red Cross, however, for giving her
aid without asking about her immigration status.

Mrs. Mejia said she feared that if she sought welfare or food stamps, that would
make it harder for her to qualify for permanent residency someday, because
dependence on government benefits is often counted against applicants.

Immigrants' advocates say granting permanent resident status to workers like
Mrs. Mejia would make it easier to them to qualify for the aid they need for
their children. "They should give us permanent residence," Mrs. Mejia said.
"These people died unjustly. They weren't doing any harm to anybody. They were
just working, taking care of their families and fighting to make a living."

At the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s convention two weeks ago in Las Vegas, the federation's
delegates called on federal, state and local governments to take actions to
ensure that the families of immigrant workers who were direct victims of the
Sept. 11 attacks "be treated the same as their U.S. citizen counterparts with
regard to benefits and services."

"The families of those who were working in the towers and lost their lives,
something immediate should be done for them, given their need for support," said
Hector Figueroa, secretary-treasurer of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees
International Union. "We want to remind people in Washington that these people
were there, they were victims of the attack just like everybody else."

The coalition is holding a news conference today at Local 32BJ's headquarters in
Lower Manhattan to formally begin its campaign to gain legal status for the
undocumented families of survivors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carmen Mejia and two of her four children looking at pictures of
her husband, Manuel Asitimbay, a cook, who was killed Sept. 11. (Michelle V.
Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 23, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Imagine;
For Immigrants, a Colder World

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 283 words


On Sept. 6, President Vicente Fox of Mexico urged a rare joint meeting of
Congress to grant legal status to millions of his countrymen, saying they
brought cultural and economic benefits to the United States. President Bush
expressed support for Mr.

Fox's proposals.

Five days later, all that seemed like a dream, and since then, American
immigration policy has undergone a sea change. Gone are the lofty words from Mr.
Bush about how hard-working immigrants seeking a better life should be given a
chance. In their place is a darker, more mistrustful view of immigrants.
Congress last week easily approved legislation requiring visas issued to
foreigners after 2003 to be tamper-resistant and include biometric data. The
bill also tightens the screening of foreign students and authorizes the hiring
of 1,000 new border inspectors and 1,000 immigration investigators over the next
five years.

The immigration debate has been recast to focus on border security and homeland
defense. The administration plans to establish military tribunals to try
suspected terrorists who are noncitizens. More than 600 National Guard troops
have been dispatched to help patrol the Canadian border, and immigration
officials will work to track down the estimated 250,000 illegal immigrants who
were ordered deported but remain in the country.

Mr. Fox's countrymen aren't sure they want to stick it out. Immigration experts
say tens of thousands of Mexicans living here without legal residency are
returning home, unwilling to risk staying here in the current political climate,
and unlikely to return anytime soon to jobs in the hotel, restaurant and
agriculture industries that rely on their labor.   ERIC SCHMITT


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
New Rules Are Proposed For Appeals Of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1


Seeking to speed the process that could lead to the deportation of illegal
immigrants, the Justice Department wants to revamp its rules so that most
immigration appeals are heard by only one judge instead of the current
three-member panels.

The draft regulations seek to reduce the backlog of 55,000 cases pending before
a federal panel that reviews decisions by immigration judges, but by means that
critics say would jeopardize noncitizens' rights.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has proposed a plan to expand the categories of
cases that a single appellate judge could decide, limit the scope of appeals
available to immigrants and set shorter deadlines for filing and deciding
appeals.

These moves would reduce the backlog and allow the department to cut the size of
the panel, the Board of Immigration Appeals, to 11 members from 23, Justice
officials said. The cuts could save $2 million a year that could be applied to
reducing backlogs in processing citizenship applications, officials said.

But some members of Congress and advocates for immigrants fear that Mr. Ashcroft
is using the pretext of efficiency to curb immigrants' civil liberties and to
weed out judges who have ruled in favor of immigrants facing deportation.

"These are drastic changes being proposed," Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat
of Massachusetts, said, "and we need time to carefully review them. I am
seriously concerned about the attempt to further reduce an immigrant's right to
seek review of his or her case before an appellate judge."

The proposal comes against the backdrop of another contentious issue:
immigration judges want Congress to grant them independence from the Justice
Department.

Some 30,000 decisions from immigration courts and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service are appealed each year. Most are decided in the
government's favor, lawyers and Congressional officials said.

The Clinton administration expanded the number of administrative judges to 21
from 5 in 1995, and the Bush administration added two positions. But the added
personnel did not significantly speed the process, officials said. Cases have
routinely languished for two years.

The regulations, which the government hopes to put in place in the next few
months, would broaden the kinds of cases that a single judge could decide. Now,
a three-judge panel hears about two-thirds of appeals.

The proposal would build on procedures put in place in 1999 to allow a single
judge to rule on routine matters. Under the proposal, three-judge panels would
hear only the most significant cases, including those to clarify ambiguous laws
or resolve cases of "major national import."

Critics say the proposal would add more caprice to an appellate process that
already lacks consistency because of board members' differing views on asylum
eligibility and grounds for deportation.

"Under this proposal, the outcome of appeals may now rest in many cases on the
luck of the draw in terms of which board member is selected to adjudicate the
case," said Joseph A. Vail, a former immigration judge who heads the immigration
clinic at the University of Houston Law School.

The rules would also bar the appellate panels from reviewing factual findings of
immigration judges, unless they were "clearly erroneous," and would not allow
the appellate panels to consider new evidence.

Advocates for immigrants said the proposal would further erode judicial review
of immigration decisions, which was sharply limited by changes Congress approved
in 1996.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Guilty Pleas In Smuggling Case

BYLINE:  By Jane Fritsch (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 134 words


An immigration lawyer and his wife have pleaded guilty to federal racketeering
and conspiracy charges stemming from a smuggling operation in which illegal
immigrants were transported from China to the United States and held until the
cost of their passage was paid. The lawyer, Robert E. Porges, 63, ran one of the
city's busiest immigration law firms.

Prosecutors said they found more than $2 million in cash in the couple's
Stamford, Conn., home and several safe deposit boxes. They are to be sentenced
on May 17. In a plea agreement last week, Mr. Porges and his wife, Sheery Lu
Porges, 49, admitted to conspiring with smugglers known as snakeheads to get the
immigrants into the country, and filing false documents seeking asylum with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.   Jane Fritsch (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2002 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
Long Resistant, Police Start Embracing Immigration Duties

BYLINE:   By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1314 words


For years, most local police departments have resisted the idea of using their
officers to track down illegal immigrants, reasoning that crime-fighting is
better served by building relationships of trust in immigrant communities.

Now, in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, a growing number of law enforcement
agencies around the country say that they have begun to equate immigration
enforcement with protecting national security and that they want to be involved.

In the starkest example of the turnaround, Florida will soon become the first
jurisdiction to accept a long-dormant federal plan to deputize local police
officers as agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Florida officials say they are completing an agreement with the Justice
Department, the immigration service's parent, authorizing 35 state troopers,
sheriff's deputies and city police officers to make an arrest solely for
overstaying a visa or entering the country illegally.

The immigration service, which has long concentrated on border control and
employs just 1,947 agents for internal enforcement, calls the new arrangement
with Florida "revolutionary" and is actively promoting such partnerships with
other states. The Justice Department declines to identify any additional states
with which it might be in negotiations, although South Carolina's attorney
general, Charlie Condon, is backing a bill in the State Legislature to follow
Florida's lead.

The framework for such agreements has been in place since 1996, when they were
authorized in an overhaul of immigration laws. A handful of efforts were made
then, by immigration-control groups and local legislators around the country, to
empower local police officers to arrest illegal immigrants. All were blocked by
opposition from immigrant groups and employers, the indifference of local law
enforcement agencies and, in some places like New York City, strict laws or
policies protecting otherwise law-abiding illegal immigrants from being turned
over to the immigration service.

But "we're in a different situation now," said the North Miami Beach police
chief, Bill Berger, president of the International Association of Chiefs of
Police. "Now we've got a situation where people feel truly fearful that we may
have people in the country who might want to hurt us or kill us."

All 19 hijackers on Sept. 11 were foreign-born men living in the United States
on temporary visas, and at least two were in violation of visa conditions. As
many as 12 had lived briefly in Florida, which helps explain that state's
eagerness to work with the immigration service.

Federal officials say the intent of the partnership with Florida is not to storm
immigrant communities looking for everyone in the country illegally, but to
bolster the resources of the understaffed immigration agency in its search for
"high priority" illegal immigrants.

Short of such formal agreements, local police agencies have already been drawn
into immigration matters they once deemed too time-consuming or peripheral to
their essential duties.

Since Sept. 11, for example, many have participated in the government's
antiterrorism task forces hunting for Middle Eastern and Muslim immigrants who
have ignored deportation orders, a federal felony.

Groups that have long supported a crackdown on illegal immigrants, and the
enlistment of state and municipal police forces in the effort, have now renewed
their campaign by framing it in terms of fighting terrorism. "Islamic terrorists
have penetrated every aspect of our immigration system," Dan Stein, executive
director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington lobby,
said in a statement this week.

But at a time when the foreign-born population has reached a historic high, and
when an estimated eight million illegal immigrants, most of them Hispanic, are
spread across the country, others warn of risks in using police officers in the
pursuit.

"I don't think the immigrant community would have confidence anymore in the
police," said Dolly Hassan, an immigration lawyer in Queens, where a vast
majority of residents are foreign-born or the children of foreigners. "The
police here have always done a tremendous amount of outreach to convince
immigrants that information about their status wouldn't be shared, so that they
will come forward to report crimes."

Since the attacks, the Justice Department has made abundant use of immigration
laws to arrest hundreds of Muslim men for visa expirations and to hold them for
months as potential terrorism suspects.

State and local law enforcement officers, on the other hand, ordinarily do not
have the power to arrest a foreigner for an immigration violation, except for
ignoring a deportation order. And the difference in authority does not end
there.

Immigration agents have wider latitude than even other federal law enforcement
officers to make arrests without a warrant and to single out ethnic or national
groups. After the terror attacks, Attorney General John Ashcroft also gave the
immigration agency power to detain indefinitely, without bringing charges, any
foreigner deemed a security risk.

A police officer acting as a deputized immigration agent, then, would not have
to meet the criminal justice system's usual standard of probable cause when
arresting a foreigner.

That officer might be asked to arrest a foreigner who was acting suspiciously or
was believed to be an associate of a terrorist group, a senior Justice
Department official said, "someone you have information about, but you don't
have enough to arrest him on under existing criminal law."

The Justice Department has already used immigration data to pursue those it
considers potential terrorists and to gather intelligence, and has prevailed
upon local police agencies to assist.

Last year, for example, the police in many states were asked to interview 5,000
young immigrant men from countries linked to terrorism. Some departments,
including three in Oregon, refused, saying that as they interpreted state
privacy laws, they were forbidden to question immigrants who were not suspected
of any crime.

Some jurisdictions prohibit the police and other public employees from reporting
illegal immigrants to the federal government. In New York City, a 1985 mayoral
executive order that has since become incorporated into city regulations
provides that illegal immigrants can be turned over to the immigration service
only when they are suspected of separate criminal activity.

"It was designed so people wouldn't sit in their houses worrying about whether a
New York City police officer is going to come knocking on their door because
they overstayed their welcome," said Walter L. Burnes, a department spokesman.

Detective Burnes said the Police Department did not now envision asking the
Justice Department to deputize its officers as immigration agents. Similarly,
spokesmen for the governors of New York, New Jersey, Illinois and Michigan, all
immigrant-heavy states, said agreements along the Florida model were not under
consideration.

Still, there are signs that more than ever before, local law enforcement
agencies are taking it on themselves to look out for illegal immigrants. The
immigration service said queries from the police to its Law Enforcement Support
Center, which runs a registry of foreigners and their legal status, had
increased sharply since September, to 30,000 a month from 20,000.

Sheriff John Cary Bittick of Forsyth County, Ga., whose jurisdiction includes a
60-mile stretch of Interstate highway that is a favorite route for immigrant
laborers, said he would be interested in having his deputies empowered to act as
immigration agents.

"Like anything else," said Sheriff Bittick, president of the National Sheriffs'
Association, "we in law enforcement had to set priorities in the past. Maybe
immigration was not as high a priority, but it will be in the future."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2002



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about increased enforcement of immigration laws
by local police departments misattributed the comment "Islamic terrorists have
penetrated every aspect of our immigration system." It was from a statement by
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies -- not
by Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which also endorsed such efforts by the police.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're in a different situation now," Chief Bill Berger of North
Miami Beach said of a willingness to supplement federal immigration control.
(Alex Quesada/Matrix, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ruling Clears Way to Use State Police in Immigration Duty

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3


A Justice Department legal ruling clears the way for Attorney General John
Ashcroft to declare that state and local police departments have the power to
enforce federal immigration laws, officials said today.

While a final decision has not been reached to make such a declaration, the move
is seen as a way to promote a federal plan to deputize local police officers as
agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, allowing them to make an
arrest solely for overstaying a visa or entering the country illegally.

If adopted as policy, the opinion by the Justice Department's Office of Legal
Counsel would encourage local police departments to embrace a plan that many
have resisted in the past as hindering crime fighting but are now reconsidering
in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

The immigration service, which has long focused its enforcement effort at the
nation's borders, has fewer than 2,000 agents assigned to internal enforcement,
but it estimates that more than eight million people live in the United States
illegally.

"This would leverage a small number of federal law enforcement officers with
much, much larger numbers of state and local police officers," said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates stricter limits on immigration.

The Justice Department's legal opinion was first reported today by the Copley
News Service.

A wide-ranging 1996 immigration law authorized the attorney general to enter
into agreements with states and local governments permitting them to enforce the
immigration laws on a routine basis.

Until recently, only a few places pursued such agreements, and all were blocked
by opposition from immigrant advocates and employers or, in some places like New
York City, by ordinances that prohibited local police officers from arresting
otherwise law-abiding illegal immigrants.

That trend has started to shift after the September attacks, law enforcement
officials say. Florida will soon become the first jurisdiction to enter into a
policing partnership with the Justice Department, the immigration service's
parent. Officials in South Carolina have also expressed interest in
participating.

All 19 hijackers on Sept. 11 were foreign-born men living in the United States
on temporary visas, and at least two were in violation of their visa conditions.

Other jurisdictions, including Salt Lake City in 1998, dropped the idea after
strong opposition from Latino organizations and civil rights groups.

Justice Department officials refused to discuss details of the legal counsel's
opinion or how Mr. Ashcroft intended to proceed.

In a statement tonight, the Justice Department said many state and local law
enforcement agencies had asked the department to review a 1996 opinion by its
legal counsel's office that precluded "state and local law enforcement agencies
from making arrests for civil violations of immigration law."

Immigrant advocates criticized the latest proposal, saying it would hurt police
officers' ability to gain trust in immigrant communities.

"If the Justice Department is going to give the green light to local law
enforcement to cooperate with the I.N.S., it'll jeopardize the efforts of local
police to build relations with local communities," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum. "It's a classic post-Sept. 11
Justice Department move. They want to improve security, but they're driving away
the very people who can provide help to law enforcement."

The 1996 law required training for local police officers in the complexities of
immigration law. But immigration lawyers voiced concern that such training would
not adequately prepare officers trained in criminal procedures. They also
expressed fears that the Justice Department proposal would give rise to
additional cases of racial profiling by the authorities.

"They'd be taking experts in apprehending criminals and using them to trace
civil violations," said Roxana Bacon, an immigration lawyer in Phoenix.

Because any partnerships between the Justice Department and local law
enforcement agencies would be voluntary, the plan would not violate
constitutional protections, legal experts said.

While perhaps legally sound, deputizing large numbers of local police officers
as federal agents poses practical and symbolic challenges, these experts said.

"The specter of a national police force has sent people skittering away from
such proposals in the past," said Mary Cheh, a professor of criminal procedure
and constitutional law at George Washington University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guatemala Intercepts 49 Children Illegally Bound for U.S.

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 7


Guatemalan authorities intercepted some 49 children, from toddlers to teenagers,
who were being illegally transported from El Salvador to the United States, in
what authorities said today was part of a highly organized smuggling network.

The children, most of them Salvadoran, were discovered on Friday in seven
passenger buses at a checkpoint north of Guatemala City. Twelve people
accompanying the children were charged with trafficking. Authorities said the
smuggling operation probably was run out of El Salvador, and has contacts across
Central America to Mexico and the United States.

American immigration officials said most of the children were being transported
to the United States to be reunited with parents. The group, which had left El
Salvador on Thursday, was headed to Los Angeles. The smugglers had charged
$5,000 per child.

Officials speculated that increased law enforcement along borders in recent
years throughout the region has made it more difficult and expensive for
undocumented immigrants living in the United States to return to their home
countries to retrieve their children themselves. This could mean, they said,
that more undocumented parents in the United States are trusting their children
to strangers.

"We are extremely concerned about the fact that parents are putting their
children at risk," Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said today.

"Human trafficking is a major issue for the United States, and in children we
are looking at the most vulnerable victims," he said. "When adults get involved
with it, it is by choice. Children don't know the danger they face."

The children's comments, reported this weekend in the Guatemalan newspaper
Prensa Libre, suggest that they saw their journey as an adventure that would
carry them back to their parents' embrace. Boys and girls spoke about how long
it had been since they had last seen their mothers and fathers. The youngest
child, according to the Guatemalan press, was a 1 1/2-year-old boy named Diego,
who was traveling with his 7-year-old brother, Eduardo, and a 5-year-old cousin.

One 6-year-old Honduran boy, who was traveling alone, could recite his mother's
telephone number in Los Angeles. Other children could barely describe what their
parents looked like.

Five-year-old Fernando Betzabel said to Prensa Libre: "I want to see my parents.
My grandmother told me to get on the bus, that it would take me to where they
are."

The arrests on Friday were part of a joint law enforcement effort by El
Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico and the United States that began in January, after
officials found five undocumented Salvadoran children being kept in "deplorable
conditions" in a safe house outside Mexico City and another handful at the
airport in Tijuana. At least four people were arrested and charged with
smuggling.

However, even with the arrests in Guatemala on Friday, officials said the
criminal network was far from being dismantled. Meanwhile, Guatemala officials
were preparing today to deport the 49 children to their home countries, where
they would be returned to relatives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Administration Split on Local Role in Terror Fight

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28


In a rare disagreement, White House and Justice Department officials are divided
over whether to declare that local and state police departments have the power
to track down illegal immigrants as a new tactic in the global war on terror.

If adopted as policy, an opinion by the Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice
Department would reverse a longstanding legal tradition and allow local police
officers to make arrests for civil violations of immigration law, such as
overstaying visas.

A 1996 opinion by the legal counsel's office precluded local officers from
tracking down illegal immigrants, and a draft memorandum last November by the
same office supported that conclusion. Federal agents of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service typically handle these cases.

Many police departments have voiced concern that the new Justice Department
proposal would jeopardize their relations with immigrants, who would be less
willing to report crimes. The Mexican government and advocates for immigrants
have said the plan would encourage racial profiling.

"This is a democracy, based on freedom, and people have a right to basic human
dignity," said John R. Robertson, chief of police in Newark, Calif. "That means
they're not going to be questioned just because of their appearance."

The White House has consistently supported Attorney General John Ashcroft's
aggressive efforts to fight terrorism since the Sept. 11 attacks, even as he has
come under harsh criticism from civil liberties groups and others who accuse him
of violating fundamental rights, like the rights to due process and equal
protection under the law.

The Bush administration seemed to accept and even relish Mr. Ashcroft's role as
lightning rod on difficult criminal justice issues, and stood by him at every
turn.

But White House officials expressed concern this month when Mr. Ashcroft seemed
poised to declare the internal legal ruling as administration policy before
fully reviewing the plan and its potential fallout with White House policy and
political aides.

"Consultations need to be had on something like this so the White House knows
more about it, and to make sure it's not abused," said one administration
official, who said White House officials felt "blindsided" by news media reports
this month about the proposal.

One senior administration official said that unless modified significantly, the
proposal could lead to racial profiling and lawsuits resulting from police
abuses, strain relations with Latin American nations and alienate Hispanic
voters who Republicans are courting for the midterm elections in November. "It
is not a well-thought-out proposal," the official said.

High-level deputies from the White House, Justice Department, immigration
service and other agencies have had a flurry of meetings over the last three
weeks in an effort to tamp down the dispute and forge a consensus that can be
presented to President Bush and his top aides.

Surprised by the uproar, Justice Department officials are now proceeding more
cautiously with their plan. "It remains under consideration," Mr. Ashcroft told
reporters on April 17. "We'd want to do it in a way that respects the dignity
and needs of all the people, and also respects the resources and capacity of the
various law enforcement agencies."

Left unresolved, the dispute could jeopardize Mr. Bush's trust in his attorney
general. But top Justice Department and White House aides said they were
reviewing several options and expressed confidence that they could avert a
showdown on a decision, which could come as early as this week.

"This is a serious issue that no one is taking lightly," a senior Justice
Department official said.

Critics are also upset that Mr. Ashcroft, a former United States Senator from
Missouri, has given a conservative University of Missouri at Kansas City law
professor, Kris W. Kobach, a leading role in developing the delicate policy even
though Mr. Kobach, 36, is only a White House Fellow on temporary assignment to
the Justice Department this year.

"Kris has been doing a lot of immigration policy stuff, and has been intimately
involved in this issue," a Justice Department official said. Reached by phone at
home today, Mr. Kobach, who has degrees from Harvard, Oxford and Yale Law
School, declined to discuss details of the proposal until Mr. Ashcroft makes his
decision.

This is not the first time Mr. Ashcroft's zeal for pursuing potential terrorist
threats has put him at odds with state and local law enforcement agencies.

In the months after Sept. 11, some police chiefs resisted Mr. Ashcroft's request
that they help interview thousands of Middle Eastern men, expressing concern
that the plan seemed like racial profiling. In Portland, Ore., the acting police
chief refused to participate in the effort, saying it conflicted with state laws
that barred local police officers from questioning immigrants who were not
suspected of a crime.

The latest controversy stems from a Justice Department effort to bolster the
nation's ability to combat terrorism in America, as well as outside. The 19
hijackers on Sept. 11 were all foreign-born men living in the United States on
temporary visas, and at least two were in violation of their visa conditions.

The immigration service, which has long focused its enforcement effort at the
nation's borders, has only about 1,800 agents assigned to internal enforcement,
but it estimates that more than eight million people live in the United States
illegally.

To supplement federal immigration authorities, a wide-ranging 1996 immigration
law authorized the attorney general to enter into agreements with states and
local governments permitting them to enforce the immigration laws.

Until recently, only a few places pursued such agreements, and all were blocked
by opposition from immigrant advocates and employers or, in places like New York
City, by ordinances that prohibited local police officers from arresting
otherwise law abiding illegal immigrants.

That trend has started to shift after the September attacks, law enforcement
officials say. Florida will soon become the first state to enter into a policing
partnership with the Justice Department, the immigration service's parent.

But Justice Department officials, and some police agencies, contended more could
be done after Sept. 11. Justice officials say that many state and local law
enforcement agencies had asked the department to review the 1996 legal counsel's
opinion that restricted local officers from tracking down illegal immigrants.
Local police are already allowed to arrest immigrants for violating criminal
statutes, like crossing the border illegally.

"If these people are in violation of the law, then state, local and federal
police have an obligation to move against violators of immigration law," said
Jim Pasco, executive director of the National Fraternal Order of Police, which
represents 300,000 officers across the country.

The legal counsel's opinion says that states and localities, as "sovereign
entities," have the "inherent authority to enforce civil as well as criminal
violations of federal immigration law," according to officials who have read it.
Participation would be voluntary. But it is unclear whether the federal
government would reimburse local agencies or whether police officers would
receive training in immigration law.

These and other concerns have prompted many police chiefs to voice opposition to
the proposal, saying they were concerned about undoing the gains they had
achieved in their local communities.

"I don't think it's a good idea," said Arturo Venegas Jr., the chief of police
in Sacramento. "We've made tremendous inroads into a lot of our immigrant
communities. To get into the enforcement of immigration laws would build wedges
and walls that have taken a long time to break down."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants: There's a Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 123 words


To the Editor:

The Bush administration's proposal to use local and state authorities to enforce
the immigration laws (Op-Ed, May 8) is especially dangerous to certain already
vulnerable immigrant groups, like victims of domestic violence and trafficking,
and exploited immigrant workers.

Immigration advocates have spent much time and energy persuading these groups in
particular to report the abuses they experience to the authorities. To connect
local and state police with the Immigration and Naturalization Service will only
ensure more suffering, fear and exploitation for battered immigrants, trafficked
persons and the thousands of immigrant laborers working in substandard or cruel
conditions.

JUNO TURNER
Brooklyn, May 9, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 2, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Conservatives Tell Bush They Oppose Plan for Police

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 432 words


Two leading conservatives have joined a chorus of police officials and immigrant
rights advocates in opposing a Justice Department proposal to allow state and
local law enforcement agencies to track down illegal immigrants as a way to
fight terrorism.

The two conservatives, David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union,
and Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, wrote President Bush
on Friday to complain that the plan under review by Attorney General John
Ashcroft would set a dangerous precedent by empowering local jurisdictions to
enforce many federal laws.

"If local police are to enforce our immigration laws, will they soon be required
to seek out and apprehend those who violate our environmental laws, or the
Americans with Disabilities Act as well?" the letter said.

The letter was also signed by Raymond L. Flynn, a former ambassador to the
Vatican who now leads the Catholic Alliance, a national Roman Catholic political
organization.

A White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said that aides had not seen the
letter and that it was premature to speculate on the outcome of the Justice
Department proposal.

If adopted, the proposal would allow local police officers to make arrests for
civil violations of immigration law, like overstaying visas.

A 1996 opinion by the office of legal counsel at the Justice Department
precluded local officers from tracking down illegal immigrants, and a draft
memorandum last November by the same office supported that conclusion. Federal
agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service typically handle such
cases.

Many police departments have voiced concern that the Justice Department proposal
would jeopardize their relations with immigrants, who would be less willing to
report crimes.

The proposal has exposed a rare rift between Justice Department officials and
White House aides, who previously have supported Mr. Ashcroft's aggressive
efforts to combat terrorism after the Sept. 11 attacks.

Some White House aides complain that unless modified, the proposal could lead to
racial profiling and lawsuits resulting from police abuses, as well as strain
relations with Latin American nations and alienate Hispanic voters, whom
Republicans are courting for the midterm elections in November.

In their letter to Mr. Bush, Mr. Keene, Mr. Norquist and Mr. Flynn wrote that
the proposal would strain already overburdened police departments and create
unnecessary policies.

"This is not just bad policy, it is not really needed," they said. "Mechanisms
already exist to foster federal-local cooperation in this area."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tyson Foods Indicted in Plan To Smuggle Illegal Workers

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words


Tyson Foods Inc., the nation's largest meat producer and processor, was indicted
yesterday with six employees on charges that it conspired to smuggle illegal
immigrants across the Mexican border to work in its processing plants.

The 36-count indictment, which was unsealed at Federal District Court in
Chattanooga, Tenn., accuses Tyson of arranging to transport illegal immigrants
across the border and of helping them to get counterfeit work papers for jobs at
more than a dozen Tyson poultry plants.

The government said it was the largest case brought against a major American
company involving the smuggling of immigrants.

The indictment said that six Tyson employees, including two executives,
participated in the actions and that the company engaged in the practices to cut
costs, meet production goals and to maximize profits. The company could face
sanctions and large fines if found guilty; the workers could face prison terms.

Tyson, based in Springdale, Ark., disputed the government accusations that a
corporate conspiracy took place. In a statement, Tyson said the government case
involved a handful of managers who had been operating outside of company policy
and that the six employees charged had been dismissed or placed on
administrative leave.

The indictment, however, charges that Tyson had a corporate culture that
condoned such behavior.

The indictment could result in sharp changes for food processors who have come
to rely heavily on immigrant labor. "This is bound to send a chill through the
industry," said John Lawrence, a professor of agriculture at Iowa State
University and an authority on the meat industry. "The question is, How involved
are some of these companies in the recruiting?"

The indictment comes just months after Tyson, which has its roots in the poultry
business, acquired I.B.P., the nation's largest beef processor, in a deal that
created a $20 billion company that dominates the meat counter at supermarkets
and is a leading supplier to fast-food restaurants like McDonald's and Burger
King.

Tyson is on probation after pleading guilty in 1997 to making illegal gifts to
Mike Espy, the former agriculture secretary. The government said that if Tyson
was found guilty of conspiring to recruit illegal aliens, it could face more
sanctions in the Espy case.

Barry Levine, a lawyer for Tyson, said yesterday that it would demonstrate in
court that executives in Springdale had no knowledge of the recruiting of
illegal immigrants.

"No one in the corporate offices knew of this," Mr. Levine said in a telephone
interview.

The government said that a 30-month investigation, led by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, found that about 15 Tyson plants in 9 states were
involved in a conspiracy from about 1994 to 2001.

Along with the company, the government charged two Tyson executives, Robert
Hash, a vice president in Springdale, Ark., and Gerald Lankford, a human
resources manager, with defrauding the government by conspiring to recruit
Mexican and Central American immigrants along the United States border with
Mexico and by helping them obtain illegal documents like fraudulent Social
Security cards.

Mr. Hash and Mr. Lankford, who supervised Tyson poultry plants, including one in
Shelbyville, Tenn., where the investigation was centered, were unavailable for
comment yesterday. Tyson said both had been placed on administrative leave,
pending a decision.

The indictment said that, to meet production and profit goals, Tyson officials
would contact local smugglers near its plants to get more workers.

The recruiters would contact with smugglers in Mexico, who would round up people
willing to work for Tyson, the indictment said. Tyson officials would then
arrange to meet the workers along the border, the government said, and transport
them to meat processing plants.

The government said that Amador Anchondo-Rascon, a Mexican resident and United
States citizen who once worked in the Tyson plant in Shelbyville, was a
recruiter and smuggler of illegal workers and that he arranged transportation
and trafficked in illegal documents. Mr. Anchondo-Rascon, who the government
said referred to himself as the "Jefe de Jefes," or the boss of the bosses, was
a primary contact for Tyson officials seeking new workers, the authorities said.
He was named an unindicted co-conspirator in the case but the government did not
say why.

Mr. Anchondo-Rascon arranged to have illegal immigrants picked up just across
the Mexican border, the government said, and to have them transported to
Tennessee, Virginia, Indiana, Missouri, Arkansas and elsewhere.

The government said hundreds of illegal immigrants were hired in this way, and
that Tyson often paid $100 or $200 per head to smugglers. The illegal workers
were also expected to pay a fee to the smugglers, the authorities said.

In one instance, the government said, a smuggler for Tyson paid another smuggler
$3,100 for delivering seven illegal aliens from Guatemala to the Shelbyville
plant, though only five got jobs with Tyson.

Tyson officials have long argued that they do not traffic in illegal workers. In
a 1996 news release, the company said: "The consequences of knowingly hiring
illegal workers are quite simply too high for us to hire people without proper
documentation." The company said almost all immigrant laborers come to the
company as a result of word-of-mouth from friends and families, not recruiters.

In the indictment, the government said that at a 1998 meeting at the company's
headquarters in Springdale, a human services manager told human resources
officials, "Never, ever, admit hiring illegals."

The government said it found documents that showed payments from Tyson to
smugglers, and indications that the company used temporary employment agencies
to cover up actions. Tyson officials said yesterday that they recently reviewed
company practices and dismissed workers without proper documentation.

Other big meat processors have long denied that they knowingly recruit or hire
illegal workers. And many companies say they are in a bind because if they press
workers on their documents they are accused of harassing immigrants and accused
of civil rights violations.

"We would like to hire legal workers, but it's very difficult," said Janet
Riley, a spokeswoman for the American Meat Institute, which represents some of
the largest meat processors. "It's difficult to get verification and there could
be civil rights issues."

Some labor organizations, though, have been pressing the government to stop
taking action against undocumented workers and instead go after companies for
recruiting and hiring them at low wages for work in hazardous jobs.

"We have been saying for a long time that they induce workers to come here from
Mexico and Central America with false promises," said Greg Denier, a spokesman
for the United Food and Commercial Workers, which represents meat packing and
retail food workers. "Some are told they'll be given papers. This is a
cross-border trade in human flesh."

Mr. Denier added that his union would like to legalize the status of many of the
undocumented workers already in the United States and to improve working
conditions at meat processing plants, where injuries often occur and where
turnover rates are high.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 26, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vote in House Strongly Backs An End to I.N.S.

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


The House voted overwhelmingly today to abolish the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and divide its functions between two new bureaus, one for
immigration services like the handling of citizenship applications, the other
for enforcement.

The lopsided vote, 405 to 9, reflected lawmakers' frustration over the agency's
missteps before and after Sept. 11. Indeed, the bill's sponsors said its
provisions were only the beginning of a long process to overhaul the way the
nation protects its borders, enforces its immigration laws and provides services
to millions of immigrants.

The two bureaus that the bill calls for would report to a new associate attorney
general for immigration affairs at the Justice Department, the immigration
service's parent. The role of that new official appears certain to be a
contentious issue. As critics noted today, the bill would give the official
broad authority over immigration policy, but no direct budgetary or personnel
authority.

The House vote followed four hours of floor remarks in which legislators voiced
pent-up frustration with an agency notorious for long delays, surly service and
antiquated computers. While always exasperating, the bungling suddenly
constituted a national security threat after Sept. 11, many lawmakers said.

"This bill is not a panacea," said the House Judiciary chairman, Representative
F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, whose committee drafted the
legislation. "It will take a long time for us to put our immigration affairs
back in order. But this is an essential first step."

A parallel Senate bill, sponsored by Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, and Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, is expected to be
introduced next week. The Senate Judiciary Committee is to hold a hearing on it
next Thursday.

Sensing that the momentum for a legislative solution to the immigration
service's woes had overtaken the agency's own fix-it effort, the White House
unexpectedly abandoned its official neutrality (and private opposition) to the
House bill late Wednesday, and endorsed it.

Today Attorney General John Ashcroft said the administration still objected to
some of the bill's details, mainly the new associate attorney general's relative
lack of authority. But Mr. Ashcroft said the measure's broad outlines to create
greater effectiveness and efficiency in immigration matters closely tracked the
goals that George W. Bush promised while campaigning two years ago, and later as
president.

"It is time to separate fully our services to legal immigrants, who helped build
America, from our enforcement against illegal aliens, who violate the law," Mr.
Ashcroft told reporters on Capitol Hill before the vote.

The idea of reorganizing the immigration service -- one of the government's
fastest-growing agencies, with 37,000 employees and a $6.2 billion annual budget
-- has been a legislative perennial since the late 1970's. The agency has
staggering paperwork backlogs and sharply differing mandates: it is responsible
for policing thousands of miles of border with Canada and Mexico, and for
immigration enforcement within the country, while also charged with providing
benefits to millions of the nation's newest residents.

But efforts to restructure the agency have always failed, a victim of inertia or
lack of consensus. The attacks on Sept. 11, and the focus on security afterward,
changed all that.

The 19 hijackers on Sept. 11 were all foreign-born men living in the United
States on temporary visas, and at least two were in violation of their visa
conditions. Then, in March, an immigration service contractor sent visa
extensions for Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, two of the dead hijackers, to
the Florida flight school where they had received instruction. That was the last
straw, even for the agency's remaining backers on Capitol Hill.

"We saw in the 9/11 incident some of the problems in the I.N.S. that many of us
had seen before," Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House
Democratic leader, said before the vote today. "It became clear, I think, to
everybody in the country and in the Congress that we needed reform."

In a rare display of bipartisanship, Republicans and Democrats on the Judiciary
Committee, one of the most polarized in Congress, reached compromise on a bill
earlier this month. The bill would create a Bureau of Immigration Services and
Adjudications, responsible for handling matters like visa petitions and
citizenship and asylum applications, and a Bureau of Immigration Enforcement,
which would oversee the Border Patrol, immigrant detention centers and
immigration inspectors.

Of the few lawmakers who voted against the measure today, several said the
changes did not go far enough. For instance, the administering of immigration
benefits would continue to be split among the Justice, Labor and State
Departments, as under current law. "Unfortunately, the bill brought to us today
simply rearranges the boxes on the existing organization chart of the I.N.S.,"
said Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona.

While immigration advocates and other specialists said the legislation was an
important first step, they voiced concern that the House bill would not
adequately coordinate those service and enforcement functions that are
inextricably linked. Immigration inspectors at airports, for instance, are the
first line of defense against terrorists, but they are also the first officials
encountered by a foreigner seeking asylum.

In addition, the administration and Senate Democrats complained that the new
associate attorney general would have less authority than the current
commissioner of immigration and naturalization.

"There are significant problems with the House bill," Senator Kennedy said in a
statement today, "and I am concerned that it does not provide the necessary
leadership and authority to make immigration reform a reality."

It is also unclear how the reorganization envisioned by the bill fits into a
proposal, under consideration by Mr. Bush, to create a new border security
agency, another step that would require Congressional approval.

Under that plan, proposed by Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, the
Border Patrol, which is now a part of the immigration service, would be merged
with the Customs Service, now a part of the Treasury Department, and the new,
combined agency would fall under the Justice Department.

Mr. Ashcroft said today that the immigration service would continue its
administrative overhaul until Congress pushed through its own plan.

Immigration advocates, generally supportive of the legislative effort, said they
would be watching carefully as it evolved.

"We need an agency restructured to meet the goals of a safer country, but also
one that welcomes immigrants," said Angela Kelley, a deputy director of the
National Immigration Forum. "That's got to be the overarching goal."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Ashcroft voicing support for the immigration bill
yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION LAW;
Bills Require C.I.A. to Share Its Information on Foreigners

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1


Lawmakers from both parties are pushing immigration legislation that would
require the Central Intelligence Agency to make information on suspected
terrorists available to the officials responsible for admitting foreigners into
the United States.

Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, said at a news conference that
legislation he introduced today with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, would guarantee that cooperation. Mr. Brownback said the State
Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service "must be provided with
law enforcement and intelligence information that will enable these agencies to
identify alien terrorists."

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said the "major thrust" of a
competing bill that she is preparing with Senator John Kyl, Republican of
Arizona, was the "establishment of a comprehensive lookout database." Under her
bill, the C.I.A., the F.B.I., the State Department and other agencies would be
required to share information that would then be available to consular officers
overseas who issue visas.

But the Feinstein-Kyl bill differs in some major ways from the Kennedy-
Brownback bill.

One crucial difference is that the Feinstein-Kyl bill would deny student visas
to applicants from nations on the State Department's list of countries
sponsoring terrorism.

The Kennedy-Brownback bill would simply require special scrutiny for
student-visa applicants from those countries. Seven countries are on the State
Department list: Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Sudan and Syria.

Both measures endorse changes like improvements in technology for identifying
suspected terrorists at immigration checkpoints, but the Kennedy-Brownback bill
would require studies, while the competing measure imposes deadlines for some
changes.

There are many common elements, like an end to the requirement that Immigration
and Naturalization Service inspectors clear airline passengers within 45
minutes.

Senator Feinstein said the four principal sponsors planned to meet next week to
see if they could reach common ground, an achievement that would ensure smooth
sailing in the Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Kennedy, a leader on immigration legislation since 1965, told the news
conference that while there was an "urgent need" to strengthen security and
increase the monitoring of foreign nationals in the United States, it must be
done "in ways that live up to our history and heritage as a nation of
immigrants."

"Immigrants are not the problem," Mr. Kennedy said. "Terrorists are the
problem."

Two representatives also appeared at the news conference to announce that they
were introducing companion House legislation to the Kennedy-Brownback bill.

Representative Sam Graves, Republican of Missouri, said the measure would
"hopefully make our nation much more safe."

Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, said the bill would
improve security but recognized that immigration and cross-border visits were
essential to the economy. "We can't lock our country down," Mr. Conyers said.

Intelligence-sharing was the major emphasis. Senator John Edwards, a North
Carolina Democrat who serves on the judiciary and intelligence committees, put
it bluntly, saying, "It's critically important that the people who issue visas
have the information about who the bad guys are.

"The problem," Mr. Edwards continued, "is the intelligence community,
specifically the C.I.A., has not prior to Sept. 11 been making that information
available."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 6, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
Senate Bill Would Stiffen Some Controls Over Visas

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5


A border security bill with strong bipartisan support in the Senate would
require American officials to develop new standards for granting visas to
citizens of countries that are considered sponsors of terrorism and would also
order thorough background checks.

The legislation was introduced Friday as a compromise between bipartisan bills
on border security offered earlier by Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of
California, and Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, and Senators Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, and Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas. It is
especially significant because its provisions concerning student visas are not
as severe as some college officials had feared. Senator Feinstein had initially
proposed a moratorium on all student visas, which college officials said might
cripple international programs.

The bill reflects intense public concern since Sept. 11 about loopholes in the
immigration system. At least one of the 19 hijackers had entered the United
States on a student visa but never showed up for classes. Two more hijackers had
violated immigration laws by overstaying their visas, then left and re-entered
the country.

The bill requires the Immigration and Naturalization Service to notify
institutions when foreigners enter on student visas and orders colleges to
report to the government whether they have, in fact, arrived for classes.
Universities would also provide more extensive information on foreign students,
including where they live, what they are majoring in and whether they switch
majors or drop out.

Institutions of higher education had sent the Immigration and Naturalization
Service such information until 1988, when the agency said it could not handle
the paperwork and moved to collect those details only for specific students on
request.

David Ward, president of the American Council on Education, a lobbying group
representing colleges and universities, said that institutions were pleased with
the changes and would probably not find them onerous.

"I think we're very grateful that the amount of information that is specified
that we give back to the Immigration and Naturalization Service is reasonable,"
Dr. Ward said. "We're back to 1988, except in the computer age."

The bill, which enjoys broad support in the Senate, allows nonimmigrant visas to
be issued to citizens of the seven nations the United States government deems
sponsors of terrorism only after "it has been determined that such alien does
not pose a threat to the safety or national security of the United States
according to standards developed by the secretary of state."

Senator Feinstein's office said in a statement that some 3,761 citizens of the
nations considered sponsors of terrorism had attended American institutions of
higher education during the academic year that ended in June.

"Currently, the State Department does not perform extensive background checks
for students coming from Syria or Sudan," the statement said. It added that only
"an intermediate background check" was performed on Iranian students, with
deeper checks done for students from Iraq and Libya.

In all, 92,784 citizens of those seven nations received nonimmigrant visas in
the 2000 fiscal year, said Chris LaMora, a spokesman for the State Department.
The nations covered under the bill are Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Libya, Syria, Cuba and
North Korea.

Senator Feinstein's statement noted that California was home to a scandal in the
1990's in which officials at four community colleges, in a money-making scheme,
provided false grades and other information to help about 100 Middle Easterners
fraudulently obtain student visas.

In Senate hearings in October, immigration service officials said that they had
made no changes to prevent similar abuses in the future and that they had no
idea where the people who had entered the country on the illegally obtained
visas were now.

The new measure was described on Senator Feinstein's Web site as a prohibition
on granting visas to travelers from countries considered sponsors of terrorism.
But other supporters of the bill described it as essentially mandating extensive
background checks where the government had failed to conduct them.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin and the
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has said he would not consider the
legislation on border security or visa restrictions until the House had tackled
a reorganization of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Plan Seeks to Restore Food Stamps for Noncitizens

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 979 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9


The Bush administration proposed today to restore food stamps to many legal
immigrants, whose eligibility for benefits was severely restricted by the 1996
welfare law.

The White House said that at least 363,000 people -- legal immigrants who have
not become citizens -- would qualify for food stamps under the plan, to be
included in the budget President Bush sends Congress in early February. The
proposal would cost the federal government $2.1 billion over 10 years, the
administration said. In October, 18.4 million people were receiving food stamps.

Mr. Bush's plan, or something like it, has an excellent chance of becoming law.
The Senate is considering such changes as part of a far-reaching bill to
reauthorize farm and nutrition programs. Under the proposal, the White House
said, noncitizens with low incomes could qualify for food stamps after living
here legally for five years. A similar test already applies to legal immigrants
seeking Medicaid or cash assistance.

The welfare bill passed by Congress and signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996
made noncitizens ineligible for food stamps and many other types of assistance
financed with federal money. Supporters of the ban, mostly Republicans, argued
that federal benefits drew immigrants to the United States and then discouraged
them from working.

Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, expressed the intent of Congress in
1996 when he said, "Immigrants should come to the U.S. with their sleeves rolled
up, ready to work, not with their hands out, ready to go on welfare."

But today, amid a recession that is hurting many immigrants, and with the
government waging a war on terrorism that has targeted some immigrants, Mr. Bush
is eager to show his commitment to them. He is also eager to address domestic
problems -- a transition his father failed to make effectively a decade ago
after the Persian Gulf war.

Many of those who could benefit from the food stamp proposal are Hispanic. The
White House has been ardently courting Hispanic voters.

In an interview today, Newt Gingrich, the House speaker in 1996, said: "I
strongly support the president's initiative. In a law that has reduced welfare
by more than 50 percent, this is one of the provisions that went too far. In
retrospect, it was wrong. President Bush's instincts are exactly right."

Mr. Bush is selectively disclosing parts of his budget in advance --
specifically, those proposals likely to win political support -- as Mr. Clinton
often did.

Antihunger groups and Hispanic groups praised the Bush plan. "This is an
enormous step forward, for which the president should be congratulated," said
Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil
rights group. "Mr. Bush did not speak out on this in the presidential campaign,
and he had not done so since he assumed office."

As governor of Texas and as president, Mr. Bush has taken pride in his good
relations with Hispanic Americans. Karl Rove, the president's senior political
adviser, said last year that capturing a bigger share of the Hispanic vote was
"our mission and our goal" and would require assiduous work by "all of us in
every way."

But the Republican Party is split, and some Republicans have alienated Hispanic
voters by espousing a restrictionist immigration policy.

Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, said he would fight the
president's food stamp proposal because it would "entice people to come to the
United States to be on welfare."

Mr. Tancredo, chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus, with 55 members in the
House, said: "The president has chosen to steal a page out of the Democrats'
playbook. The Democrats have been enormously successful in buying votes through
welfare. That's all this is, a sop to a Democrat-leaning voter bloc, an attempt
to expand our political base by including the Hispanic vote."

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the government has detained more than 1,100
noncitizens for questioning and has stepped up enforcement of immigration laws.
Mr. Bush insists he is waging war on terrorists, not immigrants, and his food
stamp proposal can be cited to support that claim.

James D. Weill, president of the Food Research and Action Center, an antihunger
group, said, "It's really positive that the administration wants to extend food
stamp benefits to this group of legal immigrants." He said his group had been
supporting a broader restoration of food stamps, as proposed by Senators Richard
G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, and Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. But Mr. Weill
said, "Everybody is moving in the same direction, and we are delighted to see
that."

The economy is worse now than in 1996, when Mr. Clinton signed the welfare bill.
"Immigrants have been hit hard by the economic downturn," Ms. Munoz said, "and
there's no safety net for those who arrived after 1996."

Welfare and food stamp rolls have plummeted since 1996, and members of Congress
express much less concern now about being overwhelmed with the programs' cost,
even though budget surpluses have evaporated.

In general, food stamps are available to people with gross incomes up to 30
percent above the poverty level. A three-person household can qualify if its
gross income does not exceed $1,585 a month.

Federal officials said Mr. Bush's proposal would make it much easier for state
and local employees to determine whether an immigrant was eligible for food
stamps. The immigrants are generally ineligible now, but there are some
exceptions based on a person's age, work history and date of entry into the
United States.

About 800,000 immigrants were removed from food stamp rolls in 1996, according
to the Agriculture Department, which runs the program. Two years later, benefits
were restored to about 175,000 immigrants, mostly children and older people who
were in the country before the legislation was signed in August 1996.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Rules Detention Law Unconstitutional

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 591 words


In the second such ruling in three weeks, a federal appeals court said yesterday
that the 1996 law requiring mandatory detention without bail of certain
immigrants who have committed crimes was unconstitutional.

The case, decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
in California, involved a Korean man who came to the United States in 1984 and
became a lawful permanent resident two years later. In 1997, at age 18, the man,
Hyung Joon Kim, was convicted of burglary; the next year, he was convicted of
petty theft and sentenced to three years in prison.

The day after his release from state prison, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service detained Mr. Kim on the ground that his criminal record made him
deportable, triggering mandatory detention under the Illegal Immigration Reform
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, which went into effect in 1998.

Mr. Kim filed a petition of habeas corpus, and, after six months in detention,
won a district court ruling that the mandatory detention provision was
unconstitutional.

The immigration service then released him on a $5,000 bond, but the litigation
continued.

In yesterday's ruling, the appeals court said that while the agency had the
right to detain a lawful permanent resident before deportation, due process
required that it hold a bail hearing "with reasonable promptness" to determine
whether the particular immigrant posed a flight risk or a danger to the
community.

The issue of mandatory and indefinite detention has been challenged in many
courts.

Last summer, the United States Supreme Court, in Zadvydas v. Davis, said it was
a violation of the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment to keep immigrants
who had been ordered deported in indefinite detention, if no country would
accept them.

And just last month, in Patel v. Zemski, the United States Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit, in Pennsylvania, said mandatory detention without an
individualized bail hearing was also unconstitutional for those undergoing
deportation proceedings.

While none of the rulings has any direct impact on those detained since the
Sept. 11 terror attacks, yesterday's opinion does take note of the nation's
increasing concerns about terrorism. It pointed out, however, that there is no
contention that Mr. Kim is a terrorist and that he is facing deportation
proceedings because of "rather ordinary crimes."

"No responsible court will leave an unprotected spot in the nation's armor, and
our decision does not do so," said the opinion, which was written by Judge
William A. Fletcher.

Judy Rabinowitz, of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants Rights
Project, who argued both the Ninth Circuit and Third Circuit cases -- and has
five other appeals cases pending on the issue -- said the latest decision
indicated the need for a re-thinking of detention policies.

"It's significant, at a time when we have the I.N.S. locking people up based on
all kinds of presumptions, that we have two courts in the last month saying that
due process requires that there be individualized determinations of who poses a
risk of flight or a danger to the community," Ms. Rabinowitz said.

Even the immigration service has expressed some doubts about the law on
mandatory detention.

"We haven't seen the Ninth Circuit ruling, so we will have to review it," said
Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the agency. "Our job is to enforce the law as
written. But we have advocated, in the past, for immigration judges to have some
discretion regarding mandatory detention."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Freedom and Security

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 127 words


To the Editor:

Re "Jewish Groups Endorse Tough Security Laws" (news article, Jan. 3): As the
Jewish community's immigration and refugee agency, HIAS chose not to sign a
statement against the antiterrorism bill.

Many of the bill's issues are beyond the scope of our mission. But we did join
with colleagues to urge that the legislation balance the need to fight terrorism
with the American value of protecting immigrant and refugee rights. On questions
like judicial review and retroactive application of the deportation law, HIAS
challenged the antiterrorism proposal and will continue working to ensure that a
proper balance is found.

LEONARD S. GLICKMAN
New York, Jan. 8, 2002

The writer is president and chief executive, HIAS (Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 19, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Backlog and Wait for Green Card Decline

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 816 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18


Even as the number of immigrants seeking permanent residency in the United
States grows, the backlog and waiting times for applicants have declined for the
first time in seven years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said
today.

At present, someone applying for a green card granting permanent residency must
wait an average of 12 to 15 months, down from 33 months in 1999, officials said.
The wait varies greatly by region, with some cities like Houston and New York
faring worse than the national average.

The backlog of applicants in the fiscal year 2001 dipped to 980,000 people, just
below the peak of more than one million people a year earlier. The backlog had
grown steadily from 121,000 people in 1994, causing delays for students,
refugees, spouses of permanent residents, temporary workers sponsored by
employers and other applicants.

Immigration officials ascribe the declining backlog and waiting times to several
factors. The immigration service has hired 1,200 more adjudicators in the last
three years, for a total of 6,559. The budget for processing citizenship and
other service claims increased to $650 million this year, from $440 million in
the fiscal year 1999. And officials have bought new computers.

"We're beginning to turn the corner," an immigration official said.  "We're
catching up."

The Bush administration and its new commissioner of immigration and
naturalization, James Ziglar, have set a goal to process all claims for
permanent residency within six months. Immigration officials said the goal was
to meet that national average by this October, and for all regional offices to
meet it by the end of the fiscal year 2003.

"There are large pockets of improvement," said Michael Maggio, an immigration
lawyer here who said he had noticed faster service for clients in Washington and
Baltimore.

But other immigration lawyers and immigrant advocates were skeptical about the
agency's rosier numbers and forecasts of improved service.

"It sounds wonderful, but I don't buy it," said JoAnne C. Adlerstein, head of
the immigration law practice at Proskauer, Rose in Newark. "I have not seen any
improved efficiency."

Ms. Adlerstein said she told many of her clients that they would probably get
speedier service if they returned to their home countries and applied for
immigrant visas from there.

"People wait in limbo forever, for years, so what they're saying is promising,"
said Sara T. Campos, a staff lawyer for the National Immigration Law Center in
Oakland, Calif. "But it'll take awhile for it to filter down."

The backlog in adjusting immigrants' legal status stems from the mid-1990's when
the immigration service, facing mounting delays in processing citizenship
applications, shifted resources to address that problem. That starved other
parts of the immigration bureaucracy, which were unable to keep pace with a
growing number of applicants seeking to change their legal status.

Changes in the law also fueled big increases in applicants. Congress last year
briefly reinstated a process that allowed many illegal immigrants to apply for
legal residency without first having to return to their country of origin. As
many as 400,000 immigrants met the original filing deadline, April 30, 2001,
after paying a $1,000 fee to avoid having to return to their home country.

The total number of new applicants for permanent residency in the fiscal year
2001 jumped sharply, to 754,000, from 456,000 in the fiscal year 1999.
Immigration officials said the increased personnel and better computers allowed
them to approve 695,000 filings last year, compared with 264,000 in 1999.

Even before the attacks on Sept. 11, applicants underwent background checks by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency.

Since the attacks, Arab and Muslim immigrants who have applied for citizenship
and other services have faced increased scrutiny, immigration lawyers said.

Lawyers for Arab and Muslim clients said that the number of applications
accepted by the immigration service had not declined since the attacks, and that
the processing times were consistent with those of other applicants. But the
lawyers said their clients faced more questions than non-Arabs.

"There has been a greater scrutiny of naturalization applications, as well as
other applications, when it comes to Arabs and Muslims," said Ashraf Nubani, an
immigration lawyer in Springfield, Va.

Mr. Nubani said 60 percent of his clients were Arab and Muslim immigrants of
legal resident status.

"This may be an unspoken type of thing," he said. "The I.N.S. may have Sept. 11
in the back of their minds."

Of particular interest to immigration officials, Mr. Nubani said, were the
previous addresses, employment records and travel histories of his clients.

"Prior to Sept. 11, I would not have gotten the scrutiny on these applications
that I have gotten since," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Weighs the Fate of Child Immigrants

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1010 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26


In January 2001, Malik Jarno, described by his lawyers as a mentally retarded
Guinean who is now 17, arrived at Dulles International Airport in Virginia. He
said he was seeking sanctuary from political persecution that had left his
family dead.

But because he tried to enter the country using a false passport, Mr. Jarno was
detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and has bounced from one
adult jail to another. He spent nine months in jail before receiving a hearing,
at which the immigration agency challenged his claims about his age and mental
capacity and declared that he should be deported.

"I thought I could have a new life here," Mr. Jarno said in an interview, which
was translated by one of his lawyers, Benoit Jacqmotte. "I also thought this was
a country that respected human rights. But I am not sure anymore."

Malik Jarno has emerged as a symbol of the plight of the nearly 5,000
unaccompanied children who are detained by the immigration agency each year.

While the agency says it works with nonprofit organizations and public agencies
to place children in the least restrictive setting possible, many are sent to
jails for months at a time without access to critical services.

In addition, up to 80 percent of unaccompanied juveniles appear in court without
a lawyer or guardian, legal advocates say. That often means added time in
detention, because immigration judges are reluctant to issue final orders of
removal against children without counsel.

Amnesty International USA, the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Bar
Association, the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and the Women's Commission
for Refugee Women and Children, among others, have called for immigration
officials to change the way they handle cases of unaccompanied immigrant
children.

Legislation, meanwhile, is pending in both houses of Congress to create an
Office of Children's Services within the Department of Justice. The Senate bill,
introduced by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, would transfer
responsibility for the children from the immigration service to another agency
within the Justice Department, which would set standards for detention, release
and counsel.

Mr. Jarno, who speaks basic French and Puhlar, a West African language, is being
held at Rappahannock Regional Jail in Stafford, Va. In the 14 months he has
spent in adult jails, he said, he has been beaten by guards and other inmates
and sprayed in the face with a pepper solution. He said he has spent time in
solitary confinement and has been strip-searched.

"They punish me, but I do not know why," he said.

Mr. Jarno's mother died when he was young. His father, an imam and a local
community leader, died in prison in Guinea. His brother has disappeared, his
lawyers said.

"I'm scared of going back to Guinea," Mr. Jarno said. "I think I'll be in danger
if I return."

Mr. Jacqmotte, who is working without pay, said, "The real issue is that the
I.N.S. could transfer him at any time to a facility equipped to deal with this
child's special needs."

But the immigration service contends that there is no reason for such a move
because Malik Jarno is not a minor, despite a birth certificate that lists his
date of birth as Jan. 7, 1985. Mr. Jarno's lawyers say the immigration service
believes he is 19. The agency also disputes whether Mr. Jarno is retarded.

Mr. Jarno was examined last month by a psychologist hired by his lawyers who
concluded that he suffers from moderate mental retardation and "very delayed
intellectual functioning." His I.Q. is about 47, the psychologist said, placing
him in the bottom 0.1 percent of those tested.

Immigration officials used dental and wrist X-rays to determine Mr. Jarno's age.
Many medical experts have said such methods are unreliable. The developers of
the bone study method used by the immigration service said that 90 percent of
those tested would fall within a range of roughly 30 months above or below the
person's actual age.

The immigration commissioner, James W. Ziglar, has said the agency was reviewing
its use of X-rays to determine age.

Senator Feinstein's measure would change procedures so that various forms of
evidence would be considered in determining a child's age for purposes of
detention, placement, custody and parole. The bill would also bar the use of
X-rays as the sole means of determining age.

At a hearing last month, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts
and chairman of the immigration panel for the Judiciary Committee, said that
more than 30 percent of the children who were in custody were housed in juvenile
jails. Many others, he said, were kept at shelters for many months without
access to translators, education or medical care.

The immigration agency said today that it would transfer four Tanzanian
teen-agers who were being held at a detention center in Pennsylvania, to a
foster family.

In July, the boys, 16 and 17 years old, wandered away from a Boy Scout jamboree
in Virginia. They said they hoped to stay in the United States to attend school.

The youths, who speak Swahili, have been held at the Berks County Youth Center
about eight months, pending the outcome of their asylum proceedings. They did
not want to return to their country, their lawyer said, for fear of reprisals
for embarrassing its government.

The lawyer, Andrew D. Morton, who represents the boys without pay, said the
facility was generally used for detaining youths for short periods of time. The
center, he said, was inadequate to provide long-term care.

Amnesty International said Malik Jarno's imprisonment was a clear violation of
both international and domestic standards for the treatment of asylum-seekers.

"Sadly, he's far from the only one," said Curt Goering, a deputy executive
director for Amnesty International. "Many other children seeking refuge in the
United States are kept in deplorable conditions, and it's a practice that has to
stop."

Mr. Goering added, "It should be unfathomable that a child could suffer so much
while under the auspices of the U.S. government."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DOMESTIC SECURITY;
Senate Passes Bill to Strengthen Border Security

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18


By a unanimous vote, the Senate passed a bill today to increase the security of
the nation's borders, to improve enforcement of immigration laws and to restrict
the admission of visitors from countries that support terrorism.

The vote was 97 to 0.

The House has passed two bills with very similar provisions and is expected to
accept the changes made by the Senate.

President Bush supports the legislation and has described border security as one
of his top priorities.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, the chief sponsor of the
Senate bill, said it would help plug gaps in security revealed by the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11. The hijackers entered the United States on tourist, student
and business visas, though several had lost their legal status before Sept. 11.

Mr. Kennedy has supported more liberal immigration policies through most of his
nearly 40 years in the Senate. On the Senate floor today, he insisted:
"Immigration is not the problem; terrorism is. We must identify and isolate
potential terrorists, not isolate America."

The bill would increase the number of immigration inspectors and investigators,
require universities to keep better track of foreign students and heighten
scrutiny on visa applications from foreign countries listed as sponsors of
terrorism.

Under the bill, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence
Agency would have to share more information with the State Department, which
issues visas. The federal government would have to issue machine-readable,
tamper-resistant visas and travel documents imprinted with identifiers like
fingerprints or retina scans.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated that the bill would cost
$1.2 billion in the first year and $3.2 billion over three years. The
effectiveness of the bill depends almost entirely on whether Congress provides
the money, in separate legislation.

Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, said it remained to be seen
whether senators who supported the bill today would vote for the necessary
appropriations.

Earlier today Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services,
appealed to Congress to clarify the relationship between law enforcement and
public health authorities in responding to bioterrorist attacks.

Mr. Thompson, testifying before the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs,
said his department had cooperated with the F.B.I. in investigating last year's
anthrax attacks. But because of the many laws, emergency rules and executive
orders defining federal powers, Mr. Thompson said, "there is some confusion"
about the roles of the various federal agencies.

Members of Congress have been expressing the same concern for six months. Mr.
Thompson was the first top administration official to say that Congress needed
to clarify the lines of authority.

Senator Max Cleland, Democrat of Georgia, said there seemed to be "a tug of war
between public health agencies and law enforcement agencies" trying to trace the
source of anthrax spores that killed five people last fall. In some cases, Mr.
Cleland said, the F.B.I. insisted on withholding information that federal health
officials wanted to disclose.

"In Trenton, N.J.," Mr. Cleland said, "the F.B.I. and public health agencies
could not agree on who should take environmental samples, so they both did. In
Washington, District of Columbia health officials first learned there was
contamination in several federal agencies from the news media. In New York, law
enforcement officials knew but failed to notify city health officials that a
suspicious letter had been sent to NBC News until after the first case of
infection surfaced. When the F.B.I. took over in Florida, press briefings by
public health officials were halted, at the F.B.I.'s behest."

Mr. Thompson said the administration had been "working at breakneck speed to
build up the defense of homeland security" and to distribute $1.1 billion in
grants to the states.

But local officials said today that they were still waiting for the money.

Thomas L. Milne, executive director of the National Association of County and
City Health Officials, told Congress: "The money has not yet reached local
public health agencies, and most do not know how much they will receive from the
state, and for what purposes. For that reason, they have not yet been able to
hire or train new staff for bioterrorism preparedness."

Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, expressed concern about the
delays in a meeting today with Tom Ridge, the domestic security chief. "Sorely
needed money for planning and equipment is being delayed by government
bureaucracy," Ms. Snowe said.

Mr. Thompson said his department was reviewing state applications for federal
grants. William A. Pierce, a spokesman for the department, said officials hoped
to distribute the money by May 31.

Mr. Thompson and Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said it was
imperative that Congress pass a separate bill to improve food safety.

Different versions of that bill were approved in December, but the legislation
has stalled because of resistance from the food industry.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Immigrant Amnesty Campaign

BYLINE:  By Steven Greenhouse (NYT) (Compiled by Yilu Zhao)

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 112 words


Several dozen community organizations, religious groups and labor unions plan to
announce a nationwide campaign today to collect a million postcards that urge
President Bush and members of Congress to change immigration laws to grant
amnesty to many illegal immigrants.

Groups in 30 cities, including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Miami, will
participate in the campaign. Among the groups sponsoring the drive are the New
York Immigration Coalition, the Bronx Spanish Evangelical Church, Make the Road
by Walking, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, and Local
32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union.   Steven Greenhouse (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Bush Signs Border-Security Measure

BYLINE:  By Carla Baranauckas (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 63 words


President Bush signed legislation to improve border security and to toughen
enforcement of immigration laws. The legislation provides for more immigration
investigators, directs colleges and universities to use the Internet to track
foreign students and requires foreign visitors to carry visas that include
biometric identifiers like fingerprints.   Carla Baranauckas (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Dysfunctional Agency

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 171 words


To the Editor:

Peter H. Schuck ("Reform That Leads to Chaos," Op-Ed, May 23) is correct to
assert that reforming the Immigration and Naturalization Service without
reforming our incoherent immigration policy will result in our having two
dysfunctional agencies rather than one and in the waste of billions of tax
dollars.

The camel's back is obviously broken, yet Congress and the Bush administration
continue to load on not just straws but also bricks.

At the same news conference in March in which President Bush fumed about the
agency's incompetence for notifying two of the Sept. 11 hijackers that their
student visas had been approved, he commended the House for passing a bill that
would make it easier for hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens to obtain green
cards.

Until Congress sets clear policies defined by the national interest -- and quits
rewarding people who break the law -- no immigration agency will have much
success.

DAN STEIN
Exec. Dir., Federation for
American Immigration Reform
Washington, May 24, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 9, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy to Bar Canadian and Mexican Part-Time Students in U.S.
Colleges

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 8


Government efforts to enforce immigration laws strictly since last year's
terrorist attacks will bar thousands of Canadian and Mexican college students
from returning to school in the fall and cost colleges and universities near the
borders millions of dollars, college officials say.

Under federal immigration law, a foreign student must study full time to be
granted a visa. In years past, such policies were enforced only sporadically,
and commuter students could easily enter the country. But the Immigration and
Naturalization Service plans to enforce the policy broadly by the fall semester
and says Congress will have to rewrite the law before the policy changes.

"Currently there is no way for a commuter student to be granted admission to the
United States," said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for the immigration service. Mr.
Bentley added that commuter students "don't fall under the classification of a
foreign student, and they don't meet the definition of the classification of a
visitor for tourism, either."

After embarking on its new policy in May, the immigration service retreated a
bit and said current students could complete the academic year. But by the fall
students will have either to enroll as full-time students or leave their
colleges.

"There will be a number of instructors who will not have classes to teach," said
Daryl Hendry, admissions director at El Paso Community College in Texas.

The college expects that most of its 2,400 Mexican commuter students, out of an
enrollment of 18,000, will not return. It stands to lose $2 million in state
financing, as well as tuition losses "too mind boggling" to calculate, Mr.
Hendry said.

"Obviously the teachers are concerned, because that's their livelihood," he
added. "The students are concerned because they want to go to school."

Wayne State University in Detroit expects to lose more than 500 students, or 2
percent of enrollment, costing $1 million in lost tuition.

"Hopefully, I'll get across for my graduation, if I'm able to graduate," said
Angela Lengendre, 28, who commutes to Wayne State from nearby Windsor, Ontario.

"A lot of students were just starting up last year and they'd invested a lot of
time and energy," Ms. Lengendre said, "and now they can't get their degrees."

Some of the hardest-hit colleges are smaller ones with slimmer budgets. In
Lewiston, a town in western New York, Niagara University has 105 Canadian
commuters out of 3,300 students and expects to lose $250,000 in tuition revenue.

"The financial effect is significant on a school of our size," said Linus
Ormsby, a Niagara spokesman.

John Bray, a spokesman for D'Youville College, in Buffalo, which has 2,400
students, including 167 part-timers from Canada, said the college would lose
$900,000 in the coming year, "a significant financial impact for a small
school."

The policy has schools reassessing programs designed to attract foreign
students. The University of Buffalo recently began promoting a teacher training
institute intended for a large enrollment of Canadians. Stephen Dunnett, vice
provost for international education, said that without Canadian commuters, the
institute could be cut in half.

"We now have no idea what's going to happen to it," Mr. Dunnett said.

Buffalo State College hoped to add to its few dozen Canadian students by
striking agreements with junior colleges in Canada that simplified transfers.
Buffalo State also planned a Canadian studies department.

"Now we're saying, Should we even consider going in that direction?" said Muriel
Howard, Buffalo State's president.

Ms. Howard, also the chairwoman of the Western New York Consortium of Higher
Education, recently wrote James W. Ziglar, commissioner of the immigration
service, asking him to rethink the policy.

"Not only would the action unfairly penalize law-abiding students who are
seeking to further their education," said the letter, which was signed by 15
college presidents, "but it would also result in significant economic loss."

On the Mexican border, the University of Texas at El Paso has a special program
to train Mexican and United States citizens in mechanical engineering, offering
other advanced degrees as well. Eric Tiel, director of the department of
international programs, said that if Mexican students were prevented from
studying for the degrees, El Paso and neighboring Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, would
be faced with a shortage of highly trained workers.

"What affects one side affects the other," Mr. Tiel said. "El Paso and Juarez
are almost one city."

For students like Jenny Stranges, who lives in Windsor and is halfway to a
master's degree in social work at Wayne State, being the focus of a security
measure is puzzling.

"I guess there is a lot of confusion as to why this particular law would make a
difference with national security," Ms. Stranges, 31, said. "It's not like
there's a lot of part-time students traveling across from, I don't know, the
Middle East."

Two congressmen from border states, Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of
Arizona, and Representative John J. LaFalce, Democrat of New York, introduced a
bill last month to create a nonimmigrant visa category to include part-time
students from Canada and Mexico.

"If Canadians can come to shop or watch a hockey game, they can surely come to
take a class," Mr. LaFalce said in a statement.

Mr. Kolbe said he thought the bill would not meet much opposition, but there is
also little chance it would work its way through the House and Senate, and the
Bush administration, before the coming academic year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angela Lengendre of Windsor, Ontario, commutes to Wayne State
University in Detroit. Her art is on The Wayne Literary Review cover. (Jeffrey
Sauger for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: THE REORGANIZATION PLAN;
Congressional Panels Recast Homeland Security Dept.

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10


Members of Congress today began shaping a Department of Homeland Security that
would differ substantially from the one President Bush proposed last month,
moving to transfer into the department only some of the agencies Mr. Bush wanted
there and putting others elsewhere.

Among the proposals approved by House committees today, only the Border Patrol
and other enforcement functions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
would move into the new department, while services for legal immigrants and
asylum seekers would stay in the Justice Department. That would maintain a
separation of these functions the House previously approved.

The Secret Service would be moved not into the new department but into the
Justice Department. An office of science and technology would be created in the
new department, and only part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency would
be moved.

The White House criticized several of the changes. It is possible that many of
the actions today will be dropped by the time the proposed department reaches
the floors of the House and Senate.

The committee votes today made it clear that many members of Congress had strong
opinions about the government departments they had traditionally overseen and
hoped to maintain jurisdiction over some of them. As a result, reorganization of
the federal government may be bumpier than was indicated by its early bipartisan
welcome.

"Giving the new department dozens of responsibilities unrelated to homeland
security risks bloating the size of the bureaucracy and diluting the new
department's counterterrorism mission," wrote two leading House Democrats, Henry
A. Waxman of California and David R. Obey of Wisconsin, in a letter to the White
House outlining problems they found with the proposed department.

President Bush addressed the issue of Congressional changes today in a breakfast
speech to thousands of federal workers, urging lawmakers to be flexible in
creating a "culture of cooperation" that might strain their notions of
jurisdiction.

"I understand it's hard to make changes in Washington, D.C.," Mr. Bush said,
referring to Congress. "I understand that people kind of get set in their ways
and want to guard turf, and I know that. But there is an overriding and urgent
mission here in America today, and that's to protect our homeland. We have been
called into action, and we've got to act."

House members who began work on the department today made it clear they were
eager to act, and there was little dissent from the consensus that domestic
security would be better coordinated under a single cabinet secretary. But many
of the agencies that the White House wants to move have other functions not
directly related to domestic security, and it is in those areas that the
consensus began to break down.

The House Judiciary Committee, where most of the changes took place, has spent
years working on restructuring the I.N.S., and was not ready to move it
wholesale into the new department without supplying "the benefit of our wisdom,"
as one member put it. With broad bipartisan support, the committee voted to
split the I.N.S., rejecting the administration's plan to move the entire agency
into Homeland Security and adopting a structure similar to a bill approved by
the House.

Under this plan, proposed by the committee chairman, F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.,
Republican of Wisconsin, and the ranking Democrat, John Conyers Jr. of Michigan,
the Border Patrol would be transferred to Homeland Security, with the detention
and removal of illegal aliens and the service's intelligence and inspection
programs. But the "service" functions of the I.N.S. -- deciding on petitions for
asylum and naturalization, would remain at the Justice Department in a new
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Members said they were concerned that those functions would be shortchanged in a
department that was primarily intended to fight terrorism.

"By splitting these two functions and elevating the status for immigration
services within the Justice Department, the amendment gives legal immigration
services the focus and attention they deserve," Mr. Sensenbrenner said, "while
preventing them from being subsumed by the massive size and scope of the new
department."

On similar grounds, the committee voted to move the Secret Service to the
Justice Department, saying its mission was to protect government officials and
investigate counterfeiting, not protect the border. Rather than move the entire
Federal Emergency Management Agency into the new department, the committee voted
to move only the agency's Office of National Preparedness, reasoning that the
agency was essentially an insurance adjuster for natural disasters, not an
antiterrorism function.

The House Ways and Means Committee voted to keep the revenue-collecting
authority of the Customs Service at the Treasury Department, rather than move
the entire agency. The House Science Committee, concerned that antiterrorism
technology would be lost in the new department, voted to create an under
secretary for science and technology.

White House officials criticized the votes, saying they reflected an unfounded
fear that nonterrorism functions would be given short shrift.

"A system made more efficient is naturally going to have more efficient
services, and we hold that to be true across the board, no matter what agency,"
said Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for Tom Ridge, the director of homeland
security. "Splitting up these functions would defeat the consolidation that the
president's proposals were designed to achieve."

Mr. Johndroe added that the Secret Service belonged in Homeland Security because
it was now the lead agency for protecting major events like the Olympics and the
Super Bowl.

The administration won one battle when the Judiciary Committee, on an 18-to-15
vote, rejected Mr. Sensenbrenner's attempt to strip the State Department of its
visa-issuing function. He said the Foreign Service had too many "Henry Kissinger
wannabes" who were unable to bring law enforcement expertise to the job of
weeding out terrorists. The committee accepted the administration's argument
that consular officers were best equipped to do the job, while Homeland Security
would set policy for them to follow.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, raced
between committees yesterday to vote on domestic security and housing issues.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) Chart: "IN THE WORKS: Congress Putting Its
Stamp on Domestic Security Dept."As President Bush's proposal for a new
Department of Homeland Security works its way through House committees, several
changes to the plan are being made. It remains unclear, though, how many of the
changes will make it into the final House version of the legislation. Some
changes made yesterday to Mr. Bush's plan: SECRET SERVICE CURRENTLY PART OF:
Treasury Dept.BUSH PROPOSAL: Would be moved into the Homeland Security
Department as a separate division.CHANGES MADE IN HOUSE COMMITTEES: Judiciary
Committee voted to move it into the Justice Department instead. IMMIGRATION AND
NATURALIZATION SERVICE CURRENTLY PART OF: Justice DepartmentBUSH PROPOSAL: Would
be moved into the border and transportation security division of the new
department.CHANGES MADE IN HOUSE COMMITTEES: Judiciary Committee voted to move
only the Border Patrol and other enforcement functions into the new department,
placing immigration and citizenship services into a new bureau within the
Justice Department. FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY CURRENTLY PART OF:
Independent agencyBUSH PROPOSAL: Would be moved into the emergency preparedness
and response division of the new department.CHANGES MADE IN HOUSE COMMITTEES:
Judiciary Committee voted to move only the Office of National Preparedness into
the new department, leaving all of FEMA's other functions in place. SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY CURRENTLY PART OF: No current agencyBUSH PROPOSAL: Would create a
Science and Technology Office in the department's division to protect against
weapons of mass destruction.CHANGES MADE IN HOUSE COMMITTEES: Science Committee
voted to create an under secretary for science and technology in the new
department, who would coordinate spending on research and development for the
department. (Source: House committees mentioned)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Representatives Ask I.N.S. to Add Workers to New York Office

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 753 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, unloved and much criticized in its
present form, may soon pass into history. But before many of its jobs are
transferred to a new government agency, immigration officials in New York are
lobbying for a fresh infusion of staff members and equipment.

Like other immigration agency offices around the country, New York has been
losing substantial numbers of employees to better-paying jobs at the
Transportation Security Administration and has been unable to fill vacancies.

In response, members of New York's Congressional delegation are trying to
pressure I.N.S. headquarters to provide special help to the district, saying its
present resources are inadequate to fight terrorism. "The I.N.S. is now our
first line of defense, and the New York district is overworked, understaffed and
shell-shocked," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, an organizer of the
effort to augment the New York office's work force.

Besides Representatives Maloney and Anthony D. Weiner, who also organized the
appeal, seven House members from New York sent a letter on Tuesday complaining
of staff shortages to the I.N.S. commissioner, James W. Ziglar.

Immigration officials in Washington said staffing problems in New York were no
worse than in other big-city districts and stemmed from an unusually high
attrition rate within the entire agency, not a lack of money or a shortage of
Congressionally authorized jobs.

"Last year, we had our largest hiring year ever -- we hired 4,000 new people,"
said Joseph Karpinski, the agency's director of Congressional relations and
public affairs. "This year, with attrition and the additional positions Congress
has given us, we have to hire 10,000 people."

Adding to the staffing problems, he added, is a competitive law enforcement job
market that is draining employees and potential new recruits from the
immigration service. Nationwide, more than 2,500 of the agency's 31,500
full-time employees have quit since last October, said Sidney Waldstreicher, a
project manager who oversees recruitment and hiring for the I.N.S.

The attrition rate in New York has not exceeded that of other districts in most
categories. In some jobs, New York has lost a smaller proportion of its
employees this year than other big-city districts.

The Miami district, according to Mr. Waldstreicher, has lost 48.6 percent of its
detention and deportation officers. Houston has lost 23.4 percent of its border
inspectors. San Francisco has lost 13.7 percent of its criminal investigators.

The New York district's staff losses were similar and, in some cases, less than
in other districts. It has lost 28.6 percent of its detention and deportation
officers, 20 percent of its airport inspection staff and 14 percent of its
criminal investigators.

Those districts with large contingents of Border Patrol officers have also seen
big losses.

"At our current rate of attrition, we could lose one-quarter of our Border
Patrol agents by the end of this year," Mr. Karpinski said.

The New York district's plea for more employees coincides with the Senate debate
over a new Homeland Security Department that would absorb the Border Patrol and
other enforcement arms of the immigration agency. The House passed a bill that
would create its version of the department last week.

All proposals under discussion would redistribute the enforcement and service
functions of the I.N.S., upending an agency that has existed for 111 years and
has been recently criticized as dysfunctional and ineffective. It is now the
biggest federal law enforcement agency.

To make the new department work, pay rates for employees of the merged agencies
would have to be synchronized, officials said, and that might ultimately stem
the outflow from immigration-related jobs.

The fate of the agency's 33 district directors under a new department is also
unclear, a factor that may have prompted the New York district's independent
appeal for extra staffing. Until now, directors like Edward J. McElroy, in New
York, have operated with a great deal of autonomy.

The points raised in the Congressional letter repeated many of the complaints
that Mr. McElroy has made to his superiors -- and that his aides have leaked to
the news media -- in the last few months. Mr. McElroy declined to comment on the
Congressional effort on his district's behalf. "With regards to our present
staffing, that's something the district just does not discuss," said Christian
Rodriguez, a spokesman for the district. "It's not shared."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Education: Students Allowed To Cross Border

BYLINE:  By Jeremy W. Peters (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 109 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will permit part-time Mexican and
Canadian students who commute to colleges in the United States to continue their
studies through the end of the year.

The service had previously said it would bar thousands of commuter students from
the two countries from crossing the border in the coming academic year,
potentially costing colleges and universities millions of dollars in lost
revenue. The extension will allow the agency and Congress time to develop a
permanent solution, like creating a new visa category for part-time students,
said Danielle Sheahan, a spokeswoman for the agency.   Jeremy W. Peters (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 27, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR;
Excerpts From the Ruling Against Secret Hearings

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 662 words


Following are excerpts from a ruling yesterday by the United States Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, that the Bush administration
illegally held hundreds of deportation hearings in secret. The full text is
available at nytimes.com/national.

The primary issue on appeal in this case is whether the First Amendment to the
United States Constitution confers a public right of access to deportation
hearings. If it does, then the government must make a showing to overcome that
right.

No one will ever forget the egregious, deplorable and despicable terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. These were cowardly acts. In response, our government
launched an extensive investigation into the attacks, future threats,
conspiracies and attempts to come. As part of this effort, immigration laws are
prosecuted with increased vigor. The issue before us today involves these
efforts.

The political branches of our government enjoy near-unrestrained ability to
control our borders. "These are policy questions entrusted exclusively to the
political branches of our government." Since the end of the 19th century, our
government has enacted immigration laws banishing, or deporting, noncitizens
because of their race and their beliefs.

While the Bill of Rights jealously protects citizens from such laws, it has
never protected noncitizens facing deportation in the same way. In our
democracy, based on checks and balances, neither the Bill of Rights nor the
judiciary can second-guess government's choices. The only safeguard on this
extraordinary governmental power is the public, deputizing the press as the
guardians of their liberty.

Today, the executive branch seeks to take this safeguard away from the public by
placing its actions beyond public scrutiny. Against noncitizens, it seeks the
power to secretly deport a class if it unilaterally calls them "special
interest" cases. The executive branch seeks to uproot people's lives, outside
the public eye and behind a closed door. Democracies die behind closed doors.
The First Amendment, through a free press, protects the people's right to know
that their government acts fairly, lawfully and accurately in deportation
proceedings. When government begins closing doors, it selectively controls
information rightfully belonging to the people. Selective information is
misinformation.

The framers of the First Amendment "did not trust any government to separate the
true from the false for us." They protected the people against secret
government.

The office of the chief immigration judge, under the authorization of Attorney
General John Ashcroft, designates certain cases to be special interest cases,
conducted in secret, closed off from the public. Arguing that closure of these
hearings was unconstitutional, plaintiffs in three separate cases sought an
injunction against such action. . . .

The district court granted the injunction, finding blanket closure of
deportation hearings in "special interest" cases unconstitutional. For the
reasons that follow, we affirm the district court's order. . . .

The public's interests are best served by open proceedings. A true democracy is
one that operates on faith -- faith that government officials are forthcoming
and honest and faith that informed citizens will arrive at logical conclusions.
This is a vital reciprocity that America should not discard in these troubling
times.

Without question, the events of Sept. 11, 2001, left an indelible mark on our
nation, but we as a people are united in the wake of the destruction to
demonstrate to the world that we are a country deeply committed to preserving
the rights and freedoms guaranteed by our democracy.

Today, we reflect our commitment to those democratic values by ensuring that our
government is held accountable to the people and that First Amendment rights are
not impermissibly compromised. Open proceedings, with a vigorous and
scrutinizing press, serve to ensure the durability of our democracy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Troubling Deportations

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:

You report (news article, Aug. 15) that the General Accounting Office concluded
that immigration officers are "generally complying" with expedited removal laws.
In fact, its conclusion was based almost entirely on review of the limited paper
records generated during this process.

Although our project has been denied access to Immigration and Naturalization
Service facilities to observe firsthand how this law is being carried out, we
have documented illegal deportation of United States citizens, humiliating
treatment of minorities and wide disparities in the application of expedited
removal. Officials' increasing use of their new power to "reinstate" a
deportation that involved an expedited removal is a practice that should trouble
all Americans.

STEPHEN M. KNIGHT
San Francisco, Aug. 16, 2001

The writer is a research fellow, Expedited Removal Study, Hastings College of
the Law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Other Dusan Knezevic

BYLINE:  By Laura Silber;  Laura Silber, senior policy adviser at the Open
Society Institute, is co-author of "Yugoslavia: Death of a Nation."

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 571 words


I married a war criminal -- at least that's what immigration officials tried to
tell me every time we landed at Kennedy Airport. The routine was always the
same. We handed over our little stack of passports: American blue, with gold
trim and bald eagle, for our daughter and me; a similar blue for my husband, who
is Serbian, but with the double-headed eagle of Yugoslavia. The immigration
agent typed in his name: D-U-S-A-N K-N-E-Z-E-V-I-C.

Then came the order "Step over there," and it was back to that airless holding
room in the bowels of the international arrivals terminal.

In that windowless room last May, three women were shackled to chairs. In July,
a man in handcuffs kept saying he would commit suicide if he were forced to go
back to the Dominican Republic.

On that July day, we had arrived at Kennedy from our summer holiday in St.
Barth's. "Just a minute while we check out a few things," a uniformed man told
us. An hour later we were still waiting. I knew better than to argue. I had
negotiated my way through dozens of checkpoints in Bosnia as a reporter during
the war there. But my husband, whose good name was on the line, did not know
better.

"This is a violation of the rights of my wife and child as American citizens,"
he fumed.

Our 2-year-old daughter, Mila, looking at the rows of chairs, asked the
official, an agent of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, if this was a
school. My husband laughed. The agent glowered and told him not to.

They thought they had their man: Dusan Knezevic, a citizen of
Bosnia-Herzegovina. He is 10 years of gristle and a thousand packs of cigarettes
older than my husband. He is 50 pounds heavier and a foot shorter. He was part
of a gang accused of killing, torturing and abusing Muslim prisoners in a
ceramics factory in the opening months of the war in Bosnia.

In 1995 that Dusan Knezevic was indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal
for Former Yugoslavia in The Hague. He is still at large, thought to be lying
low somewhere in Bosnia.

I once asked an I.N.S. supervisor how to prevent this mistake in identity from
being repeated, so we would not be detained in the future on account of the
other Dusan Knezevic. His response: "Catch him." Another agent, standing nearby,
told us, "We can't be sure who you are."

The last time we returned to New York my husband, a cardiologist at Lenox Hill
Hospital on the Upper East Side, produced a letter from the State Department
saying that he was not a wanted war criminal but a legal alien from Yugoslavia.
An agent looked at it and said: "How do I know the letter is real? Our job is
not to believe you."

This unfortunate coincidence of names has given us some insight into the way
immigrants -- illegal, legal and criminal -- may sometimes be treated by the
I.N.S. But knowing you're not alone only goes so far when you are jet-lagged and
you want to grab a taxi and get your child to bed.

At last, however, it should all be over. Last Friday my husband became an
American citizen. He has passed the test; he can tick off the 13 colonies; he
knows who said, "Give me liberty or give me death."

For everyone present in the federal courtroom where my husband and 249 others
took the oath of citizenship, the ceremony was an extraordinary event, the
pledge of allegiance to a new country. For us it meant that and a little more --
the beginning of my husband's life as Citizen Knezevic, a life off the wanted
list.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 5, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Takes Small Steps To Improving Its U.S. Ties

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT and GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4


The United States and Mexico said today that they had agreed on measures to
improve food safety, enhance law-enforcement and fight money laundering, but
conceded that the thornier job of revamping immigration policy could take years
to complete.

On the eve of President Vicente Fox's first state visit to Washington, Secretary
of State Colin L. Powell and Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda of Mexico
announced the modest accords as evidence that a relationship marked by strain in
the past was now strengthening.

American and Mexican health officials, for instance, signed an agreement to
share information on the processing of meat and produce, and to coordinate
investigations of food poisonings. To improve efficiency at border posts, a new
crossing will open at San Luis, Ariz., and an existing one at Camargo, Tex.,
will be expanded, officials said.

But several other obstacles to improved cooperation, from a trucking dispute to
immigration matters, remain unresolved. Facing stiff political opposition to a
plan to allow some of the estimated three million Mexicans living here illegally
to earn permanent residency, Secretary Powell said the administration needed
more time to work out the details and build political support.

"We've got to do it right, not do it fast," the secretary told reporters at the
State Department after he and Mr. Castaneda received briefings from 15 teams of
officials negotiating issues from agriculture to the environment. "We've made a
great deal of progress with respect to principles. We are now getting ready to
move from principles into specifics and programs."

But the administration has raised the expectations of a broad immigration deal
among Latinos in the United States, whom President Bush is actively courting,
and among President Fox's constituents in Mexico, who are beginning to question
whether he can deliver on his lofty campaign promises.

So far, the Mexican president and his top aides are keeping any complaints to
themselves and joining the Bush administration in tamping down expectations for
the state visit, which began with Mr. Fox's arrival at Andrews Air Force Base
near Washington late tonight.

Mr. Castaneda, who just a few weeks ago declared that Mexico would agree only to
a comprehensive agreement on immigration -- "the whole enchilada or nothing" --
said today that it was very ambitious to anticipate that the two countries could
settle in four to six years issues that had defied resolution for more than a
century.

The two cabinet officers said their countries had agreed to cooperate more
closely on trade, on fighting drugs and on improving border safety. The two
governments also agreed to share assets that are confiscated from criminal
organizations.

In an interview on Monday in Mexico, President Fox reiterated that there would
be no major new agreements. But he hinted that there would be partial
agreements.

Mr. Fox said, for instance, that the countries might set the structure of a
law-enforcement unit aimed at organizations that smuggle drugs, guns and
immigrants across the 2,000-mile United States-Mexico frontier. He refused to
give details of other possible agreements, but insisted that his visit would
have more than symbolic significance.

"I am hoping to come home with a few partial agreements from this trip," Mr. Fox
said. "I emphasize partial, not definitive, because these talks will take time."

President Bush will be the host of a state dinner on Wednesday for Mr. Fox, who
is to address a joint meeting of Congress on Thursday. It will be the first time
in a decade that a Mexican president has been invited to address Congress. The
last one was Carlos Salinas de Gortari; the American president then was also
named Bush.

After the speech, the two presidents are to travel to Toledo, Ohio, to meet with
the growing Mexican-American community there.

In the interview on Monday, President Fox said his main message to Americans
would be an appeal for trust. He said that since President Bush visited Mexico
in February, Mexico had proved its trustworthiness by living up to commitments
on the fight against drug trafficking and other forms of organized crime that
plague this country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE ATTACKS: LEGAL CONSTRAINTS;
Investigators Explore Boundaries Of Everything the Law Allows

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 446 words


Law enforcement officials have extensive powers to detain people when
investigating attacks on the country, legal experts said yesterday.

The experts said the detentions in recent days of more than two dozen people on
charges of immigration violations and at least two as material witnesses in
Tuesday's terrorist attacks showed that officials were using that wide latitude.

They are unlikely to be second-guessed by judges, several legal experts said.
"No judge wants to be responsible for another act of terrorism," said E. Joshua
Rosenkranz, president of the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University
Law School.

Because the government controls who can enter the country, the powers of
officials are especially expansive in dealing with immigrants. Judges in the
past have permitted immigrants to be held on evidence kept secret even from the
courts.

"We don't have preventive detention in our law for acts of terrorism," said
Arthur C. Helton, an expert on immigration law who is a senior fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations. "That's why all these people are being held on
immigration violations, because the discretion enjoyed by immigration officials
is almost complete."

The United States Supreme Court has approved holding people in immigration
cases, even as a pretext to pursue leads to other crimes.

Although not as expansive, the power of prosecutors over people defined as
material witnesses is also very broad. Officials generally must obtain
permission from a judge to hold someone as a material witness.

But lawyers say the anxieties across the country suggest that judges would be
sympathetic to assertions of law enforcement officials. "It is highly unlikely
under these circumstances that a judge would refuse to sign a warrant," said
Thomas P. Puccio, a former federal prosecutor.

Under federal law, a person can be held as a material witness if there is
probable cause to believe the person has information that could be important to
an investigation and if it "is or may become impracticable" to assure that the
person will be available to testify.

Defining people as material witnesses could be a short cut to detain people,
said Aaron R. Marcu, a former federal prosecutor who is a defense lawyer at the
law firm Covington & Burling. He said it would be much easier to show that a
person had information than it would be to show that there was reason to believe
the person was involved in the terror conspiracy.

And because there are international terror networks, it would not be difficult
for prosecutors to assert that witnesses might flee, said Frederick P. Hafetz,
another former federal prosecutor who is a defense lawyer in New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In This Section

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words


Expanding Detention Powers
The Bush administration announced a major expansion of its power to detain
immigrants suspected of crimes. The rules, prompted by the terror attacks last
week, would allow legal immigrants to be detained indefinitely during a national
emergency. The Justice Department said it would continue to hold 75 immigrants
arrested in connection with the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon.   A1

Legal experts, noting that when the nation's security was threatened in the past
the courts had effectively ceded vast powers to the government to limit
freedoms, said that new measures to fight terrorism might not receive a rigorous
court review.   B7


Sikhs Put on the Defensive
Sikhs in the United States, alarmed by a wave of violence and harassment, are
finding themselves pressed to explain that their turbans and beards do not
signify that they are followers of the Taliban and that they are not responsible
for the terror attacks.   A1

Rethinking Attack Strategy
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld acknowledged that difficulty in identifying
bombing targets in Afghanistan was leading the Pentagon toward a broader, more
unconventional campaign -- leaving the door open to commando raids.   A1

Conditions for Cooperation
The Bush administration experienced its first significant difficulties in
building a broad international coalition to support the use of military power
against the terrorists behind the attacks. China, in particular, urged other
nations to press Washington on setting conditions.   A1

No Decision in Afghanistan
The Taliban rulers of Afghanistan postponed a response to the American demand
that they hand over Osama bin Laden and top lieutenants.   B5

Tens of thousands of Afghans were on the move, fearing that a week of
speculation would soon give way to actual events, with American bombs plunging
from the skies.   B6

Airline Layoffs Mount
The airline industry, warning that it might lay off 100,000 people because of
the terror attacks, won assurances of billions of dollars in financial help from
Congress and the Bush administration, though details and conditions remained to
be set.   A1

United Airlines is expected to announce the layoff of 20,000 employees, or 20
percent of its work force. American and Northwest airlines are expected to
announce cuts tomorrow.   B2

Attacks' Economic Shock Wave
New York's $25 billion tourism industry is reeling, with the effects being felt
especially by hotels, restaurants and theaters. Some experts fear the slump will
be prolonged.   A1

State economies are beginning to experience adverse effects from the terror
attacks as well. Some states, already struggling in a slowing national economy,
are considering dipping further into rainy day funds or making deeper cuts in
budgets already stripped to the bone.   B1

A Wider Plot Investigated
The federal authorities said that they were investigating the possibility that
terrorists might have plotted to commandeer two additional commercial flights,
both departing from Newark, on the day that the four used in the attacks were
hijacked.   B1

The Pentagon issued its first detailed chronology of its response to the
hijackings as they happened.   B11

Terror-Proofing Airliners
Aviation experts are weighing changes in aircraft design to try to keep
terrorists from turning passenger planes into suicide missiles.   B3

A Father's Denial
The father of Mohammed al-Amir Atta, who is accused of helping crash a hijacked
jet into the World Trade Center, said in an interview in Egypt that his son
could not have taken part in the operation.   B4

Hope Fades for Any Survivors
Mayor Giuliani and other officials acknowledged that it was unlikely that anyone
still buried in the rubble that was the World Trade Center was alive. More than
5,000 people are listed as missing since the attack eight days ago.   B1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: POLICY AND LEGISLATION;
U.S. WIDENS POLICY ON DETAINING SUSPECTS; TROUBLED AIRLINES GET FEDERAL AID
PLEDGE

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON and ROBIN TONER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18


The Bush administration today announced a major expansion of its power to detain
immigrants suspected of crimes, including new rules prompted by last week's
terrorist attacks that would allow legal immigrants to be detained indefinitely
during a national emergency.

Citing the new powers, the Justice Department said it would continue to hold 75
immigrants arrested in connection with the attacks on the World Trade Center and
the Pentagon. Previously, the department faced a 24-hour deadline on whether to
release detained immigrants or charge them with a crime, or with violating the
terms of their visa.

The new detention powers drew statements of concern from civil liberties
advocates and immigration lawyers. While the pressure on the administration and
Congress to act is immense in the wake of the terrorist attacks, there is rising
concern on the left and the right that the rush to respond could erode basic
constitutional freedoms.

The administration, which had the authority to rewrite the detention rules, is
also expected within days to present Congress with a broad package of
anti-terrorism legislation. Civil liberties and privacy groups are pleading with
Congress not to act hastily on the package.

A draft bill circulating today on Capitol Hill, apparently reflecting the
administration's views, would give new authority to the Justice Department to
arrest immigrants suspected of terrorism, accelerate the process of deporting
them and curtail court appeals.

In announcing the new regulations, Attorney General John Ashcroft said at a news
conference that the government had "a responsibility to use every legal means at
our disposal to prevent further terrorist activity by taking people into custody
who have violated the law and who may pose a threat to America."

Mr. Ashcroft insisted that "we're going to do everything we can to harmonize the
constitutional rights of individuals with every legal capacity we can muster to
also protect the safety and security of individuals."

Under its new powers, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is part
of the Justice Department, would normally have 48 hours to decide whether to
release or charge a detained immigrant.

The 48-hour deadline could be waived, however, "in the event of emergency or
other extraordinary circumstance," allowing an immigrant to be held for "an
additional reasonable period of time" without charges.

The new rules would apply to immigrants and foreign visitors who entered the
country legally but who are suspected of committing crimes in the United States,
or who have overstayed a visa or violated other terms of their entry into the
country. They would not apply to citizens.

David Martin, a law professor at the University of Virginia and a former general
counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said "there's definitely
a civil liberties concern" in the new regulations.

"I don't want to be alarmist about this," Mr. Martin said. "If we're talking
about adding an additional 12 hours or 24 hours to detention, I don't think
that's a problem. But if we are holding people for weeks and weeks, then I think
there will be close scrutiny."

Jeanne A. Butterfield of the American Immigration Lawyers Association said that
in the midst of the crisis created by last week's terrorism, the new rules "may
be reasonable, but no one wants to see this lead to some kind of indefinite
detention."

The Supreme Court has questioned the constitutionality of indefinite detention,
ruling last summer that the government could not order open-ended detention of
illegal, clearly deportable immigrants simply for lack of a country willing to
take them.

Human rights groups have long criticized indefinite-detention laws in other
countries, noting that they are often used by repressive governments to lock up
dissidents for months or years under the guise of "emergency" conditions.

The Justice Department has announced that it will ask Congress for broad new
surveillance authority to place wiretaps on phones and computers and a variety
of other powers to fight terrorism. Mr. Ashcroft has asked Congress to act
within days, and few politicians or advocacy groups have been willing, until
now, to suggest a more cautious response.

But in recent days, more are stepping forward to urge lawmakers and the
administration to slow down, examine the security flaws that led to the attacks
and consider the consequences of various proposals for civil liberties.

Representative Bob Barr, a Georgia Republican and staunch opponent of gun
control, sent a letter to Mr. Ashcroft and Congressional leaders today
declaring, "Before we begin dismantling constitutionally protected safeguards
and diminishing fundamental rights to privacy, we should first examine why last
week's attacks occurred."

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, acknowledged in an interview that there was "a hunger to
act," but added, "My concern is that at some point you've got to stop doing
things that give you a nice press release and start doing things that actually
protect the nation."

Mr. Leahy promised quick -- but careful -- action, adding, "The first thing we
have to realize is this is not either or -- this is not the Constitution versus
capturing the terrorists. We can have both."

And Morton H. Halperin, a longtime official with the American Civil Liberties
Union and a veteran of the State Department under the Clinton administration,
described Mr. Ashcroft's plea for action by week's end as "deeply troubling."

Mr. Halperin, now a senior fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations, added,
"We should not be enacting restrictions on the liberty of Americans without
careful debate. If we do it carefully, we can find an acceptable balance. If we
rush into it, we will do things that deprive people of their liberty without
improving security."

Mr. Halperin was one of the organizers of a coalition of groups, as varied as
the American Civil Liberties Union and Americans for Tax Reform, that met for
the first time on Friday. That coalition, informally known as the In Defense of
Freedom Coalition, has scheduled a news conference for Thursday to declare its
concerns. At the moment, many of these groups are demanding that the
administration's proposals be the subject of open debate and orderly
consideration.

Grover Norquist, the influential conservative strategist who heads Americans for
Tax Reform, said, "I've heard some politicians say we need to pass this this
week -- that's code for, if anybody read it, it wouldn't pass."

Jerry Berman, executive director of the Center for Democracy and Technology,
another member of the new coalition, said, "We've had a history of racing to
judgment and passing inappropriate and wrongheaded and ultimately
counterproductive laws."

Mr. Berman added, "Before you pass legislation in this area, you need to know
what happened. And I have not yet found a story or a statement by any official
that says the failure here was caused by restrictions on electronic
surveillance."

But Ron Klain, who served in the White House and Justice Department under
President Bill Clinton, argued that "it's inevitable at times like this that the
pent-up agenda of law enforcement gets put forward."

"I think there is nothing wrong and probably something right about Congress
acting on these matters relatively quickly," Mr. Klain said.

Moreover, he said, the public may well be ready to recalibrate the balance
between civil liberties and security. "The Constitution is not a suicide pact,"
he said.

Mr. Klain argued that Congress needed, however, to ensure that whatever
trade-off was made actually resulted in a safer society.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft yesterday at a briefing. (Agence
France-Presse)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths;
ADRIAN, MATTHEW TODD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 235 words


ADRIAN-Matthew Todd. Age 43, of NYC, an Immigration Judge for the Executive
Office for Immigration Review. Died suddenly on September 22.

Born in Sharon, CT and raised in Dutchess County. He was the son of Eleanor
Jones Sells of Hilton Head, SC, and Philip Adrian of Henderson, NV. Matthew was
a 1981 graduate of Washington College in Chestertown, PA. and received a Juris
Doctorate Degree from Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law. He was an avid stamp
collector and world traveler. He truly enjoyed life and was happiest when he was
spending time with family and friends. He was a great friend and will be deeply
missed by everyone whose life he touched. In addition to his parents, survivors
include his beloved brother, Philip Adrian of Chicago, IL, stepfather James
Sells of Hilton Head, SC, four stepsisters, Betsy Sells Knox of Hinesburg, VT,
Carolyn Sells Thompson of Germantown, MD, Judy Sells Batchelder of Allenstown,
NH, and Susan Sells Gregoritsch of St. Albans, VT. A service to celebrate his
life will be held at 11 AM Wednesday, September 26th, at Clark Associates
Funeral Home, Katonah, NY, 914232-3033. Interment at South Salem Cemetery.
Reception following at the Waccabuc Country Club, 90 Mead Street, Waccabuc, New
York, 914-763-3144. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Gay
Mens Health Crisis, Inc., Attn: Ms. Martell Randolph, 119 W. 24th St., NY NY
10011 212-367-1545.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
Suspects in Hijackings Exploited Loopholes in Immigration Policy

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO and ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words


For Hani Hanjour, identified as the pilot who flew the jet that rammed into the
Pentagon, blending into the American landscape began in Saudi Arabia with a $110
application for a four-week English course in California. He had only to prove
that he had $2,285 to pay for the lessons, along with room and board. He never
turned up for class.

Two other men the authorities said plowed jetliners into the World Trade Center,
Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, entered the United States on tourist visas.
Even without the required student visa, the men studied at a flight school in
Florida.

Consular officers deluged with visa applications say they generally do not have
much time to investigate the applicants.

Once foreign visitors enter the United States, immigration officers and law
enforcement agencies usually have no idea if they are complying with the terms
of their visas.

United States immigration officials said the hijackers exploited an immigration
system that critics contend is riddled with loopholes.

Until Sept. 11, that system was geared to ease the way for commerce -- whether
in the form of tourism, business or study.

Experts on terrorism said security precautions often took a back seat to
pressures from industry, the concerns of neighboring governments and even
bureaucratic rivalries in the United States government.

According to the State Department manual for consular officers, participating in
the planning or execution of terrorist acts would bar a foreigner from getting a
visa, but "mere membership" in a recognized terrorist group would not
automatically disqualify a person from entering the United States. Nor would
"advocacy of terrorism."

The manual, apparently unchanged since Sept. 11, says that the United States
will exclude immigrants who incite or direct terrorist activity, but that
statements of a general nature that do not directly advance specific acts of
terrorism are not automatically a basis for exclusion, however offensive the
statements might be.

Some American investigators have said they believed that Mr. Atta, the apparent
mastermind of the group, belonged to Egyptian Islamic Jihad, and that he met
with Iraqi intelligence officials this year. Yet he apparently entered on valid
visas and may even have re-entered the country after overstaying his visa on his
last trip to the United States.

Zacarias Moussaoui, a Frenchman of Moroccan origin arrested last month after
suspicious behavior prompted alarm at a Minnesota flight school, also entered
the United States on a student visa, though the French police suspected him of
terrorist ties. French intelligence officials shared this information with the
F.B.I. after Mr. Moussaoui was arrested in August on charges of violating United
States immigration law.

"In spite of elaborate immigration laws and the efforts of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the United States is, de facto, a country of open
borders," the National Commission on Terrorism said in a report last year.

The panel said the sheer volume of border crossings, 300 million by land from
Mexico alone and millions more by air, made "exclusion of all foreign terrorists
impossible."

In a prophetic warning, the commission noted that one of the terrorists involved
in the first World Trade Center bombing in 1993 had overstayed his student visa.
"Today, there is still no mechanism for ensuring the same thing won't happen
again," the commission said.

The lapses appear to have greased the hijackers' way at almost every step of
their conspiracy, from applying for visas to arrival in the United States, from
the failure to track them once here, to their failure to leave the United States
once their visas expired.

In the case of Mr. Hanjour, the school where he applied to study English, a
branch of ELS Language Centers in California, had no way of knowing he had
obtained his student visa, entered the country and gone AWOL.

Michael Palm, a spokesman for ELS, a division of Berlitz International, said the
Immigration and Naturalization Service never sent the form documenting Mr.
Hanjour's entry in the United States. Had it done so, the school would have
filled out the form and sent it back, telling the service that Mr. Hanjour never
reached the school. Instead, as far as ELS could tell, Mr. Hanjour belonged to
its standard 10 percent of no-shows.

School operators say the immigration service faces a backlog of up to a year in
notifying them of arriving students. And even if the school had gotten notice
and relayed word of Mr. Hanjour's absence, the I.N.S. would probably not have
considered finding him a high priority, immigration officials say.

Given the limits of its staff, the immigration service focuses on investigating
crimes by foreigners, domestic smuggling and illegal workers, said Eyleen
Schmidt, a spokeswoman for the I.N.S.

Two other hijackers, Mr. al-Shehhi and Mr. Atta, took five months of flight
lessons at Huffman Aviation in Venice, Fla., paying the school more than
$38,000, according to Rudi Dekkers, the owner.

Mr. Dekkers recalled that neither of the men carried student visas.
Nevertheless, Mr. Dekkers said he believed there was no problem giving the men
lessons that ended with their obtaining pilot's licenses.

Unlike foreign visitors working illegally, the two were "not making money, but
spending it," Mr. Dekkers said. Immigration lawyers said Mr. Dekkers was
correct: while visitors on tourist or business visas should first obtain student
visas to attend flight school, it is not up to the school to ensure they do.

"I don't need anything from you, just a check to start flying," said Mr.
Dekkers, who likened flying lessons to shopping for groceries. "We're just a
business," he said.

A State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said consular
officials typically check the names of foreigners seeking visas each year
against a database of four million names drawn from immigration, law enforcement
and intelligence records. But the background checks are remarkable for what they
do not include.

Officials at the Saudi Arabian embassy in Washington said that up to five of the
hijackers carried stolen passports and false identities.

But unless an entire batch of passports vanishes from a government warehouse,
countries do not typically report to each other on individual passports that may
have been stolen or lost. As a result, American consulates around the world have
no way of knowing whether the person presenting a passport is its authentic
owner.

"There is no proactive check on whether the passport is stolen," the State
Department official said. "It's extraordinarily rare that a foreign government
would bring to our attention the theft of a specific passport."

Nor do State Department consulates have access to F.B.I. crime records open to
any law enforcement and some regulatory agencies in this country, including the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Despite appeals and task force
recommendations in earlier years, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has so far
refused to share those records with the State Department.

"It's been a turf issue," said one government official, predicting that the
F.B.I. would be forced to give agencies not involved in law enforcement access
to its criminal records. "I think that's something that they're not going to end
up having a choice about," the official said.

After the World Trade Center bombing in 1993, Congress moved to tighten tracking
of foreign visitors, including students. It ordered the immigration service to
systematically match entries into the country with corresponding exits, for the
first time.

It also ordered creation of an electronic databank on foreign students
accessible to law enforcement officials. But both moves met with stiff
resistance from business and educational institutions. And both were delayed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hani Hanjour entered the United States on a student visa.
(Agence France-Presse)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lack of Device To Scan ID's May Muddle Mexico Border

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28


Congress's 1996 mandate that Mexicans routinely entering the United States use
identification cards with fingerprints will take effect as scheduled on Monday,
but the Immigration and Naturalization Service has yet to install machines
needed to read them.

The I.N.S. asked Congress for money to buy the machines two years ago but was
turned down because the agency did not know exactly what kind of equipment it
needed, said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the immigration service.

Now the agency knows what it needs to scan the border cards but does not have
the money, Mr. Bergeron said.

Some Mexicans have yet to obtain the new cards, ensuring more confusion when
they present their old cards to enter the United States to work on Monday
morning. The cards let Mexicans enter the country and travel within 25 miles of
the border for up to 72 hours at a time.

The State Department, which issues the cards, has asked Congress to extend the
deadline, but lawmakers have yet to vote on the idea and are now back in their
home states for the weekend. It is not clear how warm a reception the request
will get when they return.

The chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, Representative George W.
Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania, and his Senate counterpart, Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, support an extension. But one former
chairman of the House panel, Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas,
said today that the deadline had already been extended at least twice and that
"I think the time for extensions is over."

Mr. Smith said he assumed, however, that Mexicans with old border crossing cards
would be admitted on Monday, though with heightened security at border points
because of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, and would continue to be admitted
until the immigration service got the machines it needed to read the new cards.

And two other Texans, Representatives Silvestre Reyes and Solomon P. Ortiz, both
Democrats, have appealed to President Bush, asking him to issue an executive
order extending the deadline or provide another solution.

Congress mandated use of fingerprinted crossing cards at the Mexican border as
part of 1996 immigration legislation. The higher-security cards, which also
feature magnetic strips, help fight fraud, like theft, forgery or the obtaining
of multiple cards.

Without the machines needed to read the new cards, however, American border
inspectors must check them visually, just as they checked the old ones, in
essence rendering the new security features meaningless.

The immigration service hopes to get financing for the scanning machines as part
of a budget request that the Justice Department, the agency's parent, is putting
together to help deal with the terrorist attacks, Mr. Bergeron said.

In the meantime, he said, the I.N.S. is working to get a plan in place by Monday
morning to handle people who do not have new cards.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York Expands Immigrants' Eligibility for Health Program

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 548 words


The Pataki administration, steering clear of a potential lawsuit, has decided to
extend a new state-subsidized health insurance program for the working poor to
all legal immigrants.

The program, known as Family Health Plus and paid for with federal, state and
local money, is scheduled to begin today. Until late last week, the state had
been noncommittal about whether some immigrants would be eligible. A federal
welfare law, state officials noted, denied a range of federally funded benefits
to legal immigrants who arrived after August 1996, when the law was passed.

But advocates for immigrants, and their allies in the Democrat-led State
Assembly, had argued in favor of extending the program to all legal immigrants.
Without access to preventive care, they argued, uninsured immigrants would
simply turn to hospital emergency rooms, a far costlier option for the state.

Their argument was buttressed by a related ruling last July by the Court of
Appeals, the state's highest court, which found that New York had violated the
state and federal Constitutions by denying Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants
who arrived after August 1996. The advocates argued that because Medicaid
dollars were used to pay for Family Health Plus, the same eligibility rules
should apply to both programs.

The question of immigrant coverage remained unanswered until Friday, when the
state's deputy health commissioner, Robert Hinckley, said that his office had
decided to extend coverage to all legal immigrants. Mr. Hinckley said it was
unclear how quickly the coverage could begin because the state comptroller, H.
Carl McCall, had yet to approve the department's contracts with private
insurers.

The comptroller's office, in turn, said it could not approve contracts until
crucial questions -- namely regarding coverage of immigrants -- could be
answered.

Including the more recent immigrants will cost the state an additional $10
million during the current fiscal year, which began April 1. The price tag for
the overall program, which will cover 600,000 uninsured New Yorkers over the
next three years as the program is gradually phased in, is estimated at $1.1
billion.

The state is also providing additional health care services in the immediate
aftermath of the World Trade Center attack. For the next three months, uninsured
New York City residents are eligible for emergency Medicaid. Proof of
immigration status is not required. In the rest of the state, enrollment for
Family Health Plus benefits will begin today.

Immigrants' advocates said they were thrilled to hear of the administration's
decision. "We were relieved to hear because we were waiting to hear for so
long," said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration
Coalition. "So much was riding on getting that clarified."

Family Health Plus is intended for the working poor, who earn too much money to
qualify for Medicaid. A family of four may earn no more than $23,475 a year,
just above the poverty line, to be eligible for the new program.

There are currently three million uninsured people in New York State, including
those who earn too much to qualify for government-subsidized insurance, and
others who barely scrape by but lack the immigration documentation to receive
public health benefits.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 3, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Next Moves in a Shadow War

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 150 words


To the Editor:

Re "Suspects in Hijackings Exploited Loopholes in Immigration Policy" (front
page, Sept. 27):

The finding by the National Commission on Terrorism last year that "the United
States is, de facto, a country of open borders" did not come as a surprise.

Many Americans have repeatedly told pollsters that our immigration policy is
badly flawed and in need of repair.

Those elected officials and federal bureaucrats who for years ignored public
safety while deferring to commercial interests and certain ethnic groups eager
to increase their numbers within our borders now say it is time to really get
serious about enforcing our immigration laws. What is so troubling is the fact
that the government had the means to fix the problem all along but deliberately
refrained from using them.

DAVE GORAK
Executive Director, Midwest
Coalition to Reform Immigration
Villa Park, Ill., Sept. 29, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Terrorism and Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 563 words


Sept. 11 must not become a tombstone to the nation's proud tradition of openness
to foreign visitors. The terrorist attack exposed frightening weaknesses in
immigration practices, as it did with airport security and
intelligence-gathering. The best way to preserve the American people's
commitment to keeping their doors open to the world is to crack down on lax
enforcement of the immigration laws, with a sense of urgency.

Congress and officials charged with homeland security will have to explore ways
of enhancing the screening of visa applicants, border vigilance and the
monitoring of foreigners already in the United States. But to go further and
suggest that the attack calls for a drastic reduction in the number of
immigrants and foreign visitors would be irrational and counterproductive.

The ease with which the hijackers took advantage of this country's lax
enforcement of immigration laws is indeed alarming. At least two of the
terrorists were among the estimated four million foreigners who have stayed in
the country after their visas expired. A third obtained a student visa to attend
a Berlitz language course in California, but never even showed up at the
institute.

This all sounds distressingly familiar. In the aftermath of the World Trade
Center bombing in 1993, Americans were shocked to learn that one Palestinian
implicated in the attack had stayed in the country on a student visa long after
he dropped out of school. Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, convicted in a subsequent
terrorist plot, was able to enter the United States in 1990 despite being on a
government list of undesirables.

In 1996 Congress passed legislation attempting to tighten the policing of
immigration laws. But in practice many key provisions have been undercut by a
lack of collaboration between government agencies.

The law called for the development of an automated system to record the
departure of all visa holders. As it is now, most people never "check out" of
the country. It seems only sensible that the government should be able to
identify foreign visitors who entered legally but then remain here illegally.
The project has been stalled.

The 1996 legislation also called for a separate computerized system for
monitoring the half-million foreign students in the country. That, too, has been
delayed, largely because academic institutions oppose the requirement that they
help the I.N.S. monitor their students and collect fees to pay for the program.
This sensible project must now be rushed into place. But Congress should avoid
heeding hysterical cries for a moratorium or cutback on student visas.

On the front lines, American consular officials overseas, who issued 7.1 million
temporary visas last year and denied 2.4 million others, need to be in a better
position to make discerning judgments about those seeking to enter the country.
The 1996 law did provide them access to an intelligence database of people
deemed suspect, but they still cannot look up crucial F.B.I. data.

The fact that most of the terrorists in the Sept. 11 attack, if not all, entered
the country legally should not blind Congress to the need to block illegal
entries by increasing security along its porous borders with Mexico and Canada.
Keeping people from overstaying their visas will do little for homeland security
so long as hundreds of thousands enter the country illegally every year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENT;
Bush Announces a Crackdown on Visa Violators

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29


President Bush moved today to tighten immigration controls in order to keep
potential terrorists out of the United States, partly by cracking down on
foreigners who have stayed beyond the terms of their visas.

The president announced the creation of a new group of officials who will work
to find and deport foreigners who have overstayed visas or are otherwise in the
country illegally. Officials have said that at least two of the terrorists who
carried out the suicide attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon had
overstayed their visas.

Mr. Bush made his announcement at the White House, in the first meeting of the
Homeland Security Council. The president said his administration would work to
make sure that foreign students who obtained visas to study in the United States
actually enrolled in class, or left the country.  Officials say one terrorist in
the Sept. 11 attacks obtained a student visa to attend a Berlitz language course
in California but never showed up for class.

"We're going to start asking a lot of questions that heretofore have not been
asked," Mr. Bush said.

The White House provided few details on how the new controls would be carried
out or paid for. Officials at the State Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the agencies responsible for issuing and tracking visas,
said they knew nothing beyond the announcement. State Department spokesmen
referred reporters to immigration officials, but immigration officials referred
reporters back to the State Department.

As part of its broader investigation into terrorism, the Justice Department has
detained more than 1,000 people since the Sept. 11 attacks.  Civil liberties
advocates say the government's refusal to disclose the identities of many of
those held, or to specify charges, raises the specter of secret detentions.
Page B1.

The White House announcement today seemed largely intended to reassure Americans
that the government was moving aggressively to forestall further terrorist
attacks. The president was aided in that task by two members of his family: his
father, former President George Bush, and his brother Jeb, governor of Florida.

In Chicago, the former president helped Mayor Richard M. Daley reopen the Sears
Tower observation deck, which had been closed since Sept. 11. "By reopening this
symbol of strength and vitality in America's heartland," Mr. Bush said, "you're
sending a clear message that the terrorists have failed."

In New York, Jeb Bush said on the ABC News television program "Good Morning
America" that his brother had "transformed himself," had "risen to this
challenge" and was "a lot like my father in a lot of ways."

In Washington, Mr. Ridge, the director of homeland security, said Attorney
General John Ashcroft would lead the new immigration tracking team -- the
president called it the "terrorist tracking task force" -- and would have what
Mr. Ridge described as "a pretty broad" portfolio.

"The attorney general will take a look at all policies and procedures relating
to access of noncitizens to this country," Mr. Ridge said. He said it was not
yet clear whether the policy would require new legislation.

Before the attacks, the Bush administration had moved to be more open to
immigration. Although Mr. Bush had made no final decision, Mr. Ashcroft and
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell recommended in July that the administration
allow some of the three million Mexicans who are in the United States illegally
to apply for permanent status.

In the current climate, however, that plan has been shelved, at least for the
foreseeable future.

"It's not dead," Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said at a news
briefing this afternoon. But Mr. Fleischer said that because Mr. Powell and Mr.
Ashcroft had been involved with the war in Afghanistan, fighting anthrax and
"other duties," the drafting of the new immigration policy "has not moved at the
pace the president had hoped it would move."

An official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that while
it would be "premature" to discuss practical steps that might be recommended by
the president's terrorist tracking task force, the I.N.S. already had a plan in
the wings.

That plan, called a "student data collection system," would allow the
immigration service, the State Department, and colleges and universities to make
entries into a shared Internet database recording the arrival, college
registration and curriculum of foreign students in the United States.

The official said the system was to take effect by 2003 unless Congress decided
to finance it more quickly.

The president also announced today that he would tighten border controls with
Canada and Mexico. Specifically, he said his administration would work with both
countries to develop a shared immigration and customs database. He said he would
also increase the number of immigration and customs agents assigned to fighting
terrorism.

"The American people need to know that we're doing everything we possibly can to
prevent and disrupt any attack on America, and that we're doing everything we
can to respond to attacks," Mr. Bush said after meeting with other top
government officials -- including Mr. Ashcroft, Mr. Powell and Condoleezza Rice,
the national security adviser -- at the opening session of the Homeland Security
Council, the new, domestic-security equivalent of the National Security Council.

Mr. Bush also said Americans should continue to go about their lives, even
though the nation was on the highest alert against more terrorist attacks.

"I recognize it's a fine balance," he said, adding that "every American is a
soldier, and every citizen is in this fight."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, joined by his Homeland Security Council,
announcing new immigration controls yesterday. "We're going to start asking a
lot of questions," he said, "that heretofore have not been asked." (Paul
Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

German Cabinet Supports New Immigration Laws

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 7


Germany's cabinet today adopted plans for important changes in security and
immigration laws in response to the Sept. 11 attacks, which were carried out in
part by immigrants who had been living in Germany.

For Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, it was a significant political achievement,
with his dominant Social Democratic Party persuading its junior partners, the
Greens, that the responsibility of government required difficult compromises
over the reach of the state into private lives.

The immigration package came after long wrangling with the Greens over the
government's effort to admit skilled foreigners, in particular computer experts
and engineers, to fill the demographic vacuum caused by an aging population.

The bill attempts to take education level and ability to speak German into
account, but the Christian Democrats say they will not support the bill because
it expands immigration, rather than limits it. They say that too much has been
given to the Greens, including asylum provisions.

The conservative opposition says that Germany already has too many foreigners
and -- in view of Sept. 11 -- that too many are potential agents for terrorist
groups, insufficiently monitored by the police and intelligence agencies.

"The opposition says we're just opening the locks and there will be a flood of
foreigners," Interior Minister Otto Schily, a former Green, said in a brief
interview. "That's just wrong. With this legislation we can better control
immigration."

The security bill, the second in two months, would tighten border and visa
controls, increases police powers and puts sky marshals in planes.

The bill would require fingerprints on German identity cards and passports,
which many legislators dislike but which the opposition supports. Mr. Schily
insisted that better security required better access to data for identity checks
and for profiling -- trying to identify possible terrorists from their ages,
occupations, travel and spending patterns.

But just as important, he said, is more international cooperation on financial
transactions and on tracking the travel of suspected terrorists.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 15, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
Ashcroft Says I.N.S. Will Be Split to Refocus Responsibilities

BYLINE:  By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14


Attorney General John Ashcroft said today that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service would be split into two bureaus to streamline its border
enforcement and service responsibilities.

"Our objective is to build a leaner and more efficient, mission-focused
department capable of meeting the threat of international terrorism, while at
the same time fulfilling our traditional justice function of upholding the rule
of law and protecting the freedom of all Americans," Mr. Ashcroft said at a news
conference.

The reorganization reflects President Bush's campaign promise to streamline an
agency that has long been criticized by lawmakers as chronically mismanaged with
huge backlogs in processing petitions by legal immigrants and a poor record in
accounting for foreigners in the United States.

The plan announced today has been under discussion for years. But it gained
impetus after the Sept. 11 attacks when the investigation showed that several
hijackers had lived in the United States beyond the time their visas allowed.

Immigration records showed that 13 of the 19 hijackers entered the country
legally on student or business visas. Records for the other six men could not be
found or did not exist. Mr. Ashcroft said people who entered the United States
to engage in terrorism should be deported.

Over all, the new plan would change the geographic structure of the agency.
Right now, most of the operating arms of the immigration service report to
senior officials through layers of regional and district offices run by powerful
managers in the field who sometimes operate independently from Washington.

Under the plan, which is to be completed by Sept. 30, 2003, a new Bureau of
Immigration Enforcement will manage intelligence gathering, investigations and
operations to counter illegal immigration. These units, which include more than
half of the agency's 33,000 employees, will report directly to Washington,
bypassing regional offices.

The new Bureau of Immigration Services will process applications for
naturalization, asylum, work permits and green card renewals and deal with other
immigrant benefits issues. These units will also report to a new service chief
in Washington.

The reorganization does not require Congressional approval, but officials said
today that they would keep lawmakers advised of their actions. The
reorganization comes as lawmakers are offering their own plans for reshaping the
agency.

One plan proposed by two Republicans, Representatives George W. Gekas of
Pennsylvania and F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, would abolish the
immigration service and create two agencies for enforcement and service. Each
would have its own managers, budget and employees, unlike the Justice Department
plan, which would retain a single commissioner in charge. Mr. Sensenbrenner said
today that he continued to believe that a legislative reorganization was
required.

The Justice Department plan would not go as far as some Bush administration
officials have suggested. Tom Ridge, head of homeland defense, said in an
interview today in The Washington Post that administration officials were
considering merging the Border Patrol; the Customs Service, a unit of the
Treasury Department; and the Coast Guard, a Transportation Department agency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Ridge, director of homeland security, said some federal
agencies might soon be merged. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

November 11-17;
Immigration Service to Split

BYLINE:  By David Johnston

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 99 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, long criticized as poorly managed,
will be split into two operating parts to streamline the agency's border
enforcement and service duties. The reorganization reflects President Bush's
promise to bring efficiencies to the immigration service, which lawmakers have
complained is unable to process legal immigrants and incapable of keeping track
of people who illegally enter the country. The new plan, which does not require
Congress's approval, would eliminate layers of regional offices often run
independently from Washington.   David Johnston







URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 28, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRANTS;
U.S. Makes It Easier to Detain Foreigners

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1125 words


The Justice Department has quietly expanded its power to detain foreigners,
letting the government keep a foreigner behind bars even after a federal
immigration judge has ordered him to be released for lack of evidence.

The change allows the Immigration and Naturalization Service to set aside any
release order issued by an immigration judge in cases where the agency says it
believes that a foreigner is a danger to the community or a flight risk.

To have such a ruling set aside, the service simply has to file a form that says
it plans to appeal the decision to the Board of Immigration Appeals. If that
board orders the detainee released, the service can also set aside that order,
under the new regulation, by taking the case to the attorney general.

Immigration lawyers, who represent many of the 1,100 noncitizens held after the
attacks on Sept. 11, are furious about the new rule, saying it deprives the
detainees of the fundamental right of bond hearings. At such hearings, analogous
to bond proceedings in the criminal justice system, immigration judges weigh the
evidence to decide whether a detainee should be allowed to be freed on bond. But
now, no matter the outcome of those hearings, the government can continue to
hold detainees by filing forms in one business day.

"With this rule change, the government can lock someone up on very little or
even no evidence and throw away the key until they decide to let them go," said
David W. Leopold, an immigration lawyer in Cleveland who represents the first
aliens affected by the new rule, 11 Israelis who continued to be detained after
a judge had ordered them released. "In effect, it just takes immigration judges
out of the mix, bypassing their role entirely."

Two Israelis remain in custody.

The American Civil Liberties Union said it planned to challenge the rule in
court as an unconstitutional violation of the right of due process for
foreigners. The American Immigration Lawyers Association said the rule, along
with actions that permit eavesdropping on detainees' conversation with their
lawyers, violated constitutional protections.

Previously, the immigration service could set aside judges' rulings only in
cases of clear-cut criminal activity, situations that are unusual because judges
generally impose high or no bail in such cases.

The new rule, signed by Attorney General John Ashcroft on Oct. 26, went into
effect on Oct. 29 with no public notice. It was published in the Federal
Register on Oct. 31, eliminating the usual comment period before a federal rule
takes effect. Mr. Ashcroft determined that swift action was necessary "to
prevent the release of aliens who may pose a threat to national security."

The immigration service, part of the Justice Department, said the rule was
necessary because the current system might require the release of aliens who
pose security threats before the agency could present its case to the appeals
board. Because of the heavy I.N.S. caseload, officials said, it is occasionally
impossible to present all the necessary evidence to an immigration judge.

"It's not that we don't have the direct evidence, but in some cases we simply
haven't had time to draft enough material to prepare a warrant," a spokeswoman
for the agency, Karen Kraushaar, said.

Immigration lawyers said in many cases such evidence of terrorist links did not
exist or was based on flimsy connections, like a similar last name to a hijacker
or possession of a box cutter. In other cases, the government has refused to
disclose its evidence to judges, citing national security reasons.

Immigration judges rarely release detainees when the government presents
virtually any evidence of danger. But in the current cases, several judges have
ordered releases because of a lack of evidence, over the objections of the
immigration service.

The 220 immigration judges are Civil Service employees of the Justice
Department. They were separated from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in 1983 to strengthen their independence. Though the judges usually side with
the immigration service on deportations, studies show that they frequently
impose lower bail than the service requests in detention cases.

Some legal scholars say the new regulation stems from longstanding misgivings
immigration service officials have about the judges.

"The immigration judges were intended to be a check on the I.N.S., a set of
decision makers who were not beholden to the agency," said Margaret Taylor, a
professor of law at Wake Forest University. "But within the I.N.S. is a
fundamental mistrust of the immigration judges."

Supporters of the agency, however, say the new regulation is a natural outgrowth
of the focus on terrorism. Richard Samp, chief counsel of the Washington Legal
Foundation, said that immigration judges might be inclined to release detainees
when the government based its actions on classified information, but that the
government had every right not to enter such information as evidence.

"The attorney general has access to large amounts of classified evidence and has
no interest in publicly disclosing it, which would happen in an administrative
proceeding," said Mr. Samp, whose group has filed briefs to support the agency.
"We don't think there's any constitutional problem with that. When you disclose
you inform, you give terrorists a road map to American intelligence-gathering
techniques."

The nation's chief immigration judge, Michael J. Creppy, declined a request for
an interview. His spokesman, Richard Kenney, said Judge Creppy did not believe
that the new rule undermined the authority or purpose of the immigration courts.

"This doesn't change the decision-making role of the judges," Mr. Kenney said.
"It does mean that the execution is a little softer, and the I.N.S. gets more
discretion."

Over the years, Congress has granted wide authority to the Justice Department to
run the immigration system. The attorney general appoints the chief immigration
judge and can change the detention rules by administrative order.

The Supreme Court has repeatedly found that foreigners do have some fundamental
constitutional rights of due process. As recently as June, the court ruled that
the government could not hold foreigners indefinitely, because they are
"persons" under constitutional protection.

Civil libertarians said that the new rule violated the spirit of that decision.
"Clearly there's a concern for security at the moment, and we recognize that,"
said Judy Rabinovitz, senior staff counsel for the immigrants' rights project of
the A.C.L.U. "But we're concerned that they're taking advantage of the public
mood to go too far. If you say you're going to ignore a judge's ruling because
you disagree with it, it turns a bond hearing into a farce."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "BY THE NUMBERS: Detainees Held on Immigration
Charges"Attorney General John Ashcroft released details on the 548 people being
held on immigration charges as part of the investigation of the Sept. 11
attacks. Chart shows the dates charged for the 548 people being held on
immigration charges since Sept. 11. (Source: Justice Department) Map of the
Middle East shows the immigrants' country of origin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 28, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED;
The New Regulation

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 451 words


Following are the text of a new regulation on the detention of immigrants,
issued by Attorney General John Ashcroft for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service on Oct. 26, and excerpts from a Justice Department background paper on
the regulation:

Attorney General's Order

In any case in which the district director has determined that an alien should
not be released or has set a bond of $10,000 or more, any order of the
immigration judge authorizing release (on bond or otherwise) shall be stayed
upon the service's filing of a Notice of Service Intent to Appeal Custody
Redetermination (Form EOIR-43) with the immigration court within one business
day of the issuance of the order, and shall remain in abeyance pending decision
of the appeal by the Board of Immigration Appeals.

The stay shall lapse if the service fails to file a notice of appeal with the
board in accordance with Section 3.38 within 10 business days of the issuance of
the order of the immigration judge. If the board authorizes release (on bond or
otherwise), that order shall be automatically stayed for five business days.

If, within that five-day period, the commissioner certifies the board's custody
order to the attorney general pursuant to Section 3.1(h)(1) of this chapter, the
board's order shall continue to be stayed pending the decision of the attorney
general.

Justice Department Paper

The immediate implementation of this interim rule without prior public comment
is necessary to prevent the release of aliens who may pose a threat to national
security and to provide a clear set of procedural rules of administrative
procedure with respect to determining the custody conditions and bond status for
aliens during the pendency of removal proceedings.

The existing rules permit the service to appeal a decision ordering the release
of an alien, but in many cases the rules do not provide for a stay of the
release decision during the time that the service would be pursuing an appeal. .
. .

During this window of time, the service may be required to release an alien that
it believes is a threat to national security or the public safety without even
having the opportunity to present its case to the board. The automatic stay
provision allows the service attorney to maintain the alien's custody status. .
. .

The current investigation in connection with recent terrorist activities has
resulted in the detention of a large number of individuals. This may overwhelm
the capacity of the service to take the steps necessary to secure stays of
custody redeterminations in timely fashion. The automatic stay provision will
address this problem and prevent the service and the board from being
overwhelmed with stay requests.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
It Can Happen Here

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


On the basis of secret evidence, the government accuses a non-citizen of
connections to terrorism, and holds him in prison for three years. Then a judge
conducts a full trial and rejects the terrorism charges. He releases the
prisoner. A year later government agents rearrest the man, hold him in solitary
confinement and state as facts the terrorism charges that the judge found
untrue.

Could that happen in America? In John Ashcroft's America it has happened.

Mazen Al-Najjar, a Palestinian, came to the United States in 1984 as a graduate
student and stayed to teach at a university. The Immigration Service moved to
deport him for overstaying his visa -- and asked an immigration judge, R. Kevin
McHugh, to imprison him. Secret evidence, the government lawyers said, showed
that Mr. Al-Najjar had raised funds for a terrorist organization, Palestinian
Islamic Jihad. In June 1997 Judge McHugh issued the detention order.

Mr. Al-Najjar's lawyers went to federal court and challenged the use of secret
evidence against him. The court held that he must at least be told enough about
the evidence to have a fair chance of responding to it.

Judge McHugh then reopened the case in his immigration court. In a two-week
trial the government's lead witness, an Immigration agent, admitted that there
was no evidence of Mr. Al-Najjar contributing to a terrorist organization or
ever advocating terrorism. At the end Judge McHugh found that there were no
"bona fide reasons to conclude that Mr. Al-Najjar is a threat to national
security."

Judge McHugh, a former U.S. marine, wrote a 56-page decision that evidently
carried much legal weight. The Board of Immigration Appeals rejected a
government appeal. And Attorney General Janet Reno, who had the right to step
in, refused to do so. A year ago Mr. Al-Najjar rejoined his wife and three
daughters.

Last Saturday immigration agents arrested Mr. Al-Najjar again. The Justice
Department issued a triumphant press release saying that the case "underscores
the department's commitment to address terrorism by using all legal authorities
available." Mr. Al-Najjar, it said, "had established ties to terrorist
organizations."

That flat, conclusory statement was in direct contradiction to the findings made
by Judge McHugh after a full trial. And the department did not claim, this time,
to be relying on undisclosed information. It said the detention was "not based
on classified evidence."

It seems to me shocking that the United States Department of Justice should
state as a fact something that a judge has found to be untrue. The whole press
release had the ring not of law but of political propaganda. That is not the
department of respected lawyers that I have known over many years.

Mr. Al-Najjar is not only back in prison, he is being treated with exceptional
severity, indeed cruelty. He is in solitary confinement 23 hours a day. He is
not allowed to make telephone calls, and he may not see his family. Only his
lawyer is permitted to visit him.

Because Mr. Al-Najjar is stateless and no country will accept him, he probably
cannot be deported. So if the Justice Department view that he is a security risk
prevails -- in the teeth of the judge's finding -- he could spend the rest of
his life in prison.

Why is Attorney General Ashcroft using his office to punish this man so
severely? At a time of national anxiety about Arabs and Muslims, Mr. Al-Najjar
is a useful target: a Palestinian Muslim. More broadly, Mr. Ashcroft has claimed
power to detain non-citizens even when immigration judges order them released.

It could be, too, that Mr. Ashcroft wants to use this case to establish the
right to use secret evidence against aliens. The practice had been all but
abandoned by the Justice Department after several judges frowned on it and more
than 100 members of the House co-sponsored legislation to prohibit it.

With all the extreme measures taken by the administration in recent days --
detaining hundreds of people, ordering thousands questioned, establishing
military tribunals -- Mr. Ashcroft and President Bush have assured the country
that they will enforce the measures with care, and with concern for civil
liberties. Their motto is, "Trust us."

The Al-Najjar case shows that there is no basis for trust.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spy, Citing Fears, Fights Return to China

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 879 words


Bin Wu, a former Chinese spy, has an immigration problem. He wants to stay in
this country, where his brief tenure as a double or triple agent ended in 1992
with his arrest and conviction for shipping military goods to China.

But American immigration officials have a long memory. They want to send Mr. Wu
back to China, where, he and Amnesty International say, the Chinese will surely
torture and execute him.

"They will kill one to warn a hundred," Mr. Wu said in a statement he filed in
an immigration case he is fighting in Oakdale, La. He is being detained in a
federal prison by immigration officials until an immigration judge rules on his
case, possibly as soon as Thursday, when a hearing is scheduled.

Chinese espionage may seem like a relic of the last war. But legal experts say
Mr. Wu's immigration case provides a sample of the kinds of complex questions
percolating toward immigration judges in scores of cases linked to the war on
terrorism.

"Since Sept. 11, you are going to see more of these kinds of cases -- which are
really national security cases -- being handled as immigration cases," said
Arthur C. Helton, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who is an
expert on immigration law.

Immigration courts, a division of the Justice Department that is separate from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, occasionally wade into the province
of diplomats and intelligence agencies. Critics have long argued that such
complex issues are beyond the capacity of the immigration judges, who are
administrative officials dealing more often with simpler questions, like whether
a person's visa has expired.

But whether or not the immigration judges are equipped, the administration's use
of immigration procedures to detain hundreds of people in the terrorism
investigation means that there will be many more of the judges trying to unravel
tangled foreign loyalties, said Hiroshi Motomura, an immigration law expert at
the University of Colorado.

The murky world of Chinese espionage, Mr. Motomura said, presents layers of
complexity that are similar to questions likely to arise, for example, about the
loyalties of Afghan immigrants.

Mr. Wu's case would be difficult for any legal system to unravel. After his
federal court trial eight years ago in Virginia, he was convicted of shipping
military goods to China in violation of an American embargo.

Some defense lawyers said they concluded that the Chinese wanted the items, the
night vision scopes that the American military used effectively during the
Persian Gulf war, to sell to Iraq.

But it was never clear whether Mr. Wu was really working for the Chinese, who he
says forced him into espionage after he came to their attention because he was a
pro-democracy activist, or for the Americans, for whom he says he was an
enthusiastic double agent, supplying the details of Chinese spying in this
country.

At his trial in 1993, Mr. Wu's defense lawyer, James O. Broccoletti, described
him as "a man without a country." Mr. Broccoletti said in an interview recently
that he could not be sure whether Mr. Wu had really double-crossed his American
or, perhaps, his Chinese handlers.

"As to whether or not he was a triple agent," Mr. Broccoletti said, "there were
very few clear answers in that case."

Mr. Wu, an ambitious former philosophy professor, moved to this country from
China in 1990. He had a short burst of activity, which included driving a flashy
maroon Mercedes and taking payments from the F.B.I. and the Chinese.

His spy career ended with an arrest by customs officials in 1992. He completed
serving his sentence in July. Since then, Mr. Wu has been terrified of
deportation, said his lawyer, Theodore N. Cox. "I beg for the I.N.S.'s mercy,"
Mr. Wu said in his statement.

He is not eligible for asylum because of his felony conviction, so he has based
his claim on a United Nations convention against torture and other "cruel,
inhuman or degrading" treatment.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Russell A. Bergeron Jr., would say only
that Mr. Wu's felony conviction made him subject to deportation.

But James R. Lilley, a former ambassador to China and a former Central
Intelligence Agency officer, said American officials are often skeptical of
claims of feared torture because many immigrants make that claim to stay in this
country. "They probably wouldn't touch the guy," Mr. Lilley said.

Feng Xie, a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington, said all espionage
charges are "dealt with according to law" and that Chinese law forbids torture
of prisoners.

But James H. Zimmerman, a China specialist for Amnesty International, said
China's human rights record should raise alarm among immigration officials about
what might happen to Mr. Wu. The group says more than 27,000 people were
sentenced to death in China in the 1990's and suspected spies have been among
the victims.

Mr. Wu's small spy story began long before the war on terrorism. But Mr.
Motomura, the University of Colorado immigration expert, said Mr. Wu's fate is
likely to be shaped by the sweeping events.

"After Sept. 11," Mr. Motomura said, "immigration judges are going to be less
willing to compromise security and more willing to send people back even if they
are going to face possible torture."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detainees in Wartime

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 159 words


To the Editor:

Re "Al Qaeda Link Seen in Only a Handful of 1,200 Detainees" (front page, Nov.
29):

I, for one, would have been ecstatic for just one shred of useful evidence or
connection to any terrorist group revealed by the detentions.

But as your article states, "only 10 or 11 were believed to have any
relationship" to Al Qaeda. The tone of your article suggests that the detentions
were overzealous.

We are in a state of war. A method that apprehends the enemy or its sympathizers
operating among us should be supported, not denigrated. Additionally, it is a
sad comment on our Immigration and Naturalization Service policy if violations
of immigration laws can be characterized as "fairly routine." The fact that the
detentions yielded a large number of violators that, once exposed, could not be
ignored may signal a new era in I.N.S. law enforcement, a key component in our
fight for a secure America.

MAX GREENBERG
Newton, Mass., Nov. 29, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: Louisiana: Double Agent's Deportation Hearing

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 102 words


A Chinese double agent convicted of smuggling military equipment to his homeland
would probably face torture and death if he were deported, a human rights
monitor testified. "It is highly probable he would be executed and tortured,"
James Zimmerman of Amnesty International told an immigration court judge hearing
the case of the double agent, Bin Wu. In 1993, Mr. Wu was convicted of violating
the Arms Export Control Act and money laundering. He has finished his sentence
and is fighting deportation. The immigration judge, John Duck, said the only
issue was whether Mr. Wu, 37, would face torture in China.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: SECRET TRIALS;
Closed Immigration Hearings Criticized as Prejudicial

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 915 words


Under a rule imposed without public announcement soon after the Sept. 11
attacks, immigration courts from coast to coast are conducting scores of
hearings in secret, with court officials forbidden even to confirm that the
cases exist.

The rule was imposed in an internal memorandum by the country's chief
immigration judge on Sept. 21. His action is provoking complaints that even as
the country debates secret military tribunals, the administration has already
closed an entire category of legal cases without giving critics a chance to
challenge the order's constitutionality.

Lawyers for immigrants say that the secrecy order casts suspicion on their
clients without any disclosed evidence, bars relatives from locked courtrooms
and sometimes means that lawyers are accompanied into court by armed officers.

The memorandum, from Judge Michael J. Creppy, a Justice Department employee,
said the secrecy was necessary because Attorney General John Ashcroft had
"implemented additional security procedures" for certain cases in the Sept. 11
inquiry.

The secrecy rule has received some attention on Capitol Hill and in news
accounts on ABCNews.com and elsewhere. But Nadine K. Wettstein, legal director
of a Washington immigrants' rights group, the American Immigration Law
Foundation, said that in the two months since Judge Creppy's memorandum, scores
of secret hearings had been held with little public reaction.

Ms. Wettstein said critics were frustrated that the hearings had been
overshadowed by the controversy over military tribunals.

"I appreciate that there's a lot of concern about the military tribunals, but
it's speculative," she said. "But this is happening right now, and it's
happening all over the country."

Judge Creppy's memorandum said immigration courts were required in some cases
"to close the hearing to the public and to avoid discussing the case" or
otherwise disclosing information.

Immigration judges are under a Justice Department unit separate from the
immigration service. They rule on such questions as whether a person should be
deported for violations like expired visas. The terrorism investigation has led
to proceedings against more than 560 people.

Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for Judge Creppy, said the rule was based on a
regulation predating Sept. 11 that provides immigration hearings "shall be open
to the public," but permits judges to close them "to protect witnesses, parties
or the public interest."

Asked why the Sept. 21 memorandum was necessary, Mr. Kenney referred questions
to the Justice Department, where a spokesman, Dan Nelson, said, "We're
conducting the largest investigation in U.S. history, and we're using all legal
authority to do so."

Critics said the policy threatened the rights of immigrants.

"We don't want to have Star Chambers," said Angelo N. Ancheta, an immigration
specialist at Harvard Law School. "Everyone recognizes there are important
national security issues here, but we still have a Constitution."

Ms. Wettstein said her organization was considering challenging the new
procedures in court. She said it could not verify whether all of the immigrants
in the secret proceedings had access to lawyers, as the Justice Department has
asserted.

Last year, an immigrant who had been held for three years under a 1996
antiterrorism law that permits the arrest or detention of noncitizens without
identifying their accusers or informing them of the evidence against them was
ordered released after a ruling that such detention violated due process.

Lawyers for immigrants in some of the closed proceedings said the secrecy
suggested to immigration judges that clients had been tied to terrorists even
without evidence.

"There's a presumption of guilt despite what our Constitution says," said
Michael G. Moore, a lawyer from Springfield, Mass.

Michael J. Boyle, a Connecticut lawyer who appeared at a closed hearing in
Memphis last month, said that he was never told why the hearing was closed, but
that the secrecy appeared to convince the judge that Mr. Boyle's client was
linked to terrorism.

"The atmosphere was tainted," Mr. Boyle said. He said investigators have since
told his client that there is no evidence linking him to terrorism.

After Judge Creppy's memorandum, the immigration courts' central office in Falls
Church, Va., sent detailed instructions to the judges around the country. The
instructions said the special cases had to be handled by judges with security
clearances, in closed courtrooms with "no visitors, no family, no press."

Requests for information from anyone other than a lawyer for an immigrant, the
instructions said, must be made in writing under the Freedom of Information Act.
That process can take months or years.

"This restriction," the instructions continued, "includes confirming or denying
whether such a case is on the docket."

The instructions also said that court administrators should buy large rubber
stamps to label records of proceedings with "Do not disclose contents of this
record."

Several immigration law experts who typically support the immigration officials
said they were troubled by what they had heard.

David A. Martin, a former general counsel of the immigration service, said the
rule permitting judges to close proceedings probably provided an adequate legal
basis for secrecy.

But Mr. Martin said it would have been better to have continued with
case-by-case rulings on whether immigration hearings should be public. "The rule
of law," he said, "operates best in public."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In putting the secrecy order into effect, the central office
for immigration courts told court administrators to buy rubber stamps to mark
records of the proceedings, or R.O.P.'s, "Do not disclose contents of this
record."; Michael J. Boyle, a lawyer, said the very fact that a hearing was
secret seemed to convince a judge that an innocent client had ties to
terrorists. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 10, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Deported Immigrants With Nowhere to Go Wait in Jail

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1405 words

DATELINE: GREEN COVE SPRINGS, Fla., Dec. 7


For four and a half years, Mohammed Nofal has been shuttled through the jails of
Florida, Oklahoma and Texas, waiting to be deported, as ordered by the courts.

But Mr. Nofal is Palestinian, stateless and a criminal, and no nation wants him.
So he just waits in the Clay County Jail here, hoping that someday soon the
Immigration and Naturalization Service will give up and release him.

In county jails throughout the nation, most in out-of-the-way places like Ullin,
Ill., Ferriday, La., or here in the piney woods south of Jacksonville, there are
plenty of others who have been waiting for years for the immigration agency to
deport or release them.

Some, like Mr. Nofal, are Palestinians who once lived in Jordan but were never
citizens. Others are Iraqis, Muslim or Christian, who overstayed their visas,
entered the country illegally or committed crimes, and immigration lawyers say
it is often only by chance that they find out who and where the detainees are.

Still, the long-term detainees are a haunting specter for the hundreds of Middle
Eastern people who have been detained on immigration charges since Sept. 11 -- a
glimpse of a future that may await them, too.

Immigration lawyers say that many of those who have been in I.N.S. detention
since the terror attacks will most likely face long waits while the agency tries
to make arrangements for their deportation. At best, the lawyers say, arranging
for the repatriation of Palestinians, Iraqis, Iranians and Afghans is a slow
process. At worst, it may be an impossible one.

"The people who will be in trouble are from the countries with which I.N.S. has
had great trouble repatriating their citizens," said Chris Nugent of the
American Bar Association's Immigration Pro Bono Project. "Iran and Iraq have
been very difficult. And now Afghanistan will probably be like Somalia, where
there's no functioning government.

"If you don't have a government and you don't have a consulate, how do you even
begin to arrange travel documents? Or if the government is hostile to the United
States, how does the I.N.S. make arrangements? Some of these new detainees are
going to be here a long, long time."

The indefinite detention of those whose home countries will not take them has
been a problem for years. In June, the United States Supreme Court set limits on
such confinement, ruling that six months after the courts have issued a final
order that an immigrant is to be expelled, the immigration agency must release
such a foreigner who cannot be deported in the "reasonably foreseeable future,"
except in special circumstances.

That decision, in Zadvydas v. Davis, has led to the release of hundreds of
detainees from Cuba, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam, countries that have no
repatriation agreements with the United States. But it has been less help to
stateless Palestinians or people from countries like Iraq, for whom the
immigration agency says it will be able to get travel documents -- eventually.

In July, after the Supreme Court ruling, 85 people from Afghanistan, Egypt,
Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Pakistan, Syria, Yemen and the United Arab Emirates
had been in I.N.S. custody for more than six months since the final order of
their deportation. Those who represent long-term detainees say many cases are
dragging on despite the ruling.

"We have a client from Afghanistan, from before Sept. 11, whom the I.N.S. claims
they can repatriate," said Jay Stansell, a federal public defender in Seattle.
"They've had travel documents in hand, but even before Sept. 11 they couldn't
fly into Afghanistan. And now the travel documents wouldn't be any good, since
there's no government.

"The I.N.S. defense to our new habeas petition has been that they can repatriate
him in the reasonably foreseeable future, but they don't have any specifics.
They say they'll fly him into Pakistan and move him by land across the border."

Mr. Stansell said that in his experience the I.N.S. position has been that
everyone can be deported except those from Cuba, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam.

Karen Kraushaar, a spokeswoman for the I.N.S., said that contrary to his
contention, the agency had recently released people from Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan
and Jordan after long detentions, even since Sept. 11.

People "who are able to prove to us that they are not a threat to public safety
and will comply with any conditions we place on their release are qualifying for
release," Ms. Kraushaar said.

But immigration lawyers say that Palestinians have come here from Jordan and
other countries without passports and get stuck in limbo.

"Palestinians of the diaspora may have travel documents from Kuwait, Lebanon,
Saudi Arabia, Jordan or Egypt," said Karen Pennington, a Dallas immigration
lawyer. "But they're not citizens and they don't have passports. The I.N.S.
always alleges that they're nationals of the country where they were born. But
those countries don't want them. They're on the voyage of the damned."

Post-Sept. 11 detainees face new hurdles. While Mr. Nofal and the others who
have spent years in detention landed in jail because they committed crimes, the
I.N.S. now detains those whose sole wrongdoing was overstaying their visas. And
the Patriot Act, approved since the terrorist attacks, allows Attorney General
John Ashcroft to detain indefinitely foreigners who are certified as endangering
national security. Some detainees may be held even when the Zadvydas ruling
would otherwise have limited their confinement.

"It's been less than a year since the Zadvydas case, but it seems like we're
moving toward more indefinite detention, not less," Mr. Stansell said.

Mr. Nofal, who was born in 1946, before the creation of Israel, in what was then
Palestine, thought Zadvydas would be his salvation: "When I heard about the
case, I thought, 'Thank God, I won't have to die here.' But nothing has
changed."

Mr. Nofal is far from blameless: Although he came to New York legally in 1969 on
a student visa, obtained a green card and worked for years as a butcher and in a
delicatessen, he has a history of drug and alcohol abuse and, after moving to
Florida in 1982, was convicted first of possessing cocaine and then of buying
marijuana in a school zone.

But his current problems began after he served time on the drug charges. On June
17, 1997, the immigration agency picked him up at the Dade County Courthouse in
Miami, where he was waiting to defend himself on a fraud charge, and took him to
the Krome Detention Center.

"Since then, I've been in every stinking jail in the state of Florida," he said.
"I've been in Krome, in Key West, Bradenton, Fort Lauderdale, Texas and
Oklahoma. And for nine months now, I'm here, waiting and miserable."

Ms. Kraushaar said the I.N.S. had reviewed Mr. Nofal's case and found that his
record and behavior made him a possible community risk and unsuitable for
release.

As the I.N.S. has confined more detainees, it has, increasingly, contracted to
house them in county jails, like the one here, that have more beds than they
need.

At the Tri-County Jail in Ullin, Ill., another Palestinian, who asked that his
name not be used for fear of embarrassing his children, told a story much like
Mr. Nofal's. The man was born in Jordan in 1954 and came to the United States
with temporary travel documents in 1976. He married an American and had two
children. He was convicted in 1992 of armed robbery and served two years in
prison. Then, in 1997, he was detained by the I.N.S.

"Now I've been in detention much longer than I ever served time," he said, "and
here I've been outside maybe a total of eight times in four and a half years,
for 20 minutes. This is more than double jeopardy."

A court ordered him deported in March 1998. But as with Mr. Nofal, there was
nowhere to send him. He never had a Jordanian passport.

In the same jail, an Iraqi Christian has been detained for more than two years.
And immigration lawyers say they know of others, although no one knows precisely
how many have been held so long.

"We go and do presentations on legal rights in different jails, but unless
someone comes forward, there's no way we would know they're there," said Mary
Meg McCarthy, a lawyer at the Midwest Immigrant and Human Rights Center in
Chicago, which represents the Palestinian in jail in Illinois. "They're just
left out there in these county jails in the middle of nowhere that the I.N.S.
contracts with, and they're lost to the world."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detained for four and a half years, Mohammed Nofal, a
Palestinian, is awaiting deportation in a Florida jail, but no nation wants him.
(Oscar Sosa for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Hearings

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 100 words


To the Editor:

Re "Closed Immigration Hearings Criticized as Prejudicial" (news article, Dec.
7):

I read with alarm your report about the post-Sept. 11 secrecy order in
immigration courts. Conducting hearings of immigrants behind closed doors
violates the most basic principles of American jurisprudence. Openness in
judicial administration ensures the protection of civil and human rights.

Denying such transparency seems ironic for a country at war to preserve freedom.


SETH GREEN
London, Dec. 10, 2001

The writer is president of the Amnesty International Society at the London
School of Economics.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: FOREIGN STUDENTS;
10 Arrested In Visa Cases In San Diego

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD with DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 12


Beginning what they characterized as a major crackdown on foreigners who
violated the terms of student visas, immigration officials arrested 10 young
people from the Middle East in San Diego today and said more arrests would be
made.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said that they were trying to
track down at least 40 other foreigners, all of them from Middle Eastern or
central Asian countries, and that this wave of actions was the result of a
survey of just 35 of the 280 certified educational institutions in San Diego
County and adjacent Imperial County.

"We plan to continue to do this," said a senior immigration service official in
San Diego, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "This is the first phase."

The official declined to specify the violations other than to say the students
had either not been properly enrolled in accredited institutions or had
overstayed their visas.

Their cases will be handled in special immigration courts. They can either
choose to be repatriated or they can fight to remain in the country, which would
mean detention until their cases are resolved. Such immigration cases can drag
on for years.

None of those arrested in California today were suspected of involvement in
terrorism. But if any are found to have committed crimes -- and officials said
they believe at least one of those arrested so far will face criminal charges --
they will go into the regular justice system.

Since Sept. 11, more than 1,200 people have been arrested nationwide in the
search for terrorists. About 600 are still in custody, most of them accused of
immigration violations or crimes unrelated to terrorism.

The San Diego official said that the sweep was focusing for now only on students
who had entered the United States from eight countries regarded as having the
greatest potential to harbor terrorists. The countries are Iran, Iraq, Sudan,
Pakistan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan and Yemen.

The official rejected criticism from some immigration lawyers that focusing on
specific nationalities amounted to discrimination. "I think it was appropriate
for us to prioritize certain nationalities, and that's what we've done," the
official said.

The identities of those detained were not being released for reasons of privacy,
the official added.

The immigration service was embarrassed after the terrorists attacks of Sept. 11
because some of the hijackers had entered the country on student visas without
actually taking up studies at certified educational institutions. These can
include major universities, language training schools or even flight training
institutes.

The immigration service subsequently acknowledged that it had no system for
tracking foreigners with student visas, and so it had no idea if it might have
granted such visas to other would-be terrorists.

The arrests in San Diego, where three of the Sept. 11 hijackers had spent time
last year, were initiated by the regional office here, not by Washington,
officials said. But it appears likely to spread.

"It would be at the discretion of various district directors," said Eyleen
Schmidt, a spokeswoman for the immigration service, "but based on the results of
this particular initiative, it would be logical that other district directors
would lean toward doing the same thing in their district."

Some immigration lawyers said the operation today raised questions about
discrimination.

Denise Gilman, director of the immigrant and refugee rights project at the
Washington Lawyer's Committee for Civil and Urban Affairs, said: "Although we
recognize that the law does require individuals on student visas to attend
classes, I'd be very concerned about the manner in which it's being enforced.
Are they doing it across the board, or just to students from Arab countries?"

Some Muslim leaders in San Diego expressed similar concerns.

"This type of activity, people defaulting on their visas, is not particular to
the Arab community," said Mohammed Nasser, a member of a coalition of 22 Islamic
organizations in San Diego. "Many, many people come here from across the world
looking for opportunity."

Officials said that this morning's sweep was done with the cooperation of the
universities. The list of countries was compiled with the help of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, and the schools sifted their records for students from
those areas.

One of the 10 students arrested has already been released, officials said, after
it was discovered that a school provided incorrect information.

"We've been cooperating for months with the F.B.I. and the I.N.S.," said Dana
Quittner, a spokeswoman for Grossmont College, which several Arab students had
attended before being detained previously as material witnesses in the terrorism
investigation.

She said that when she heard this morning that students had been arrested in the
San Diego area, she checked with Grossmont's admissions office to see whether
any other students had overstayed their visas. She said she was told there were,
and that they had been told they needed to seek extensions.

Other large institutions in the area, San Diego State University and the
University of California at San Diego, said they had been contacted by federal
officials and had provided all the information requested.

The schools will now be expected to routinely track the foreigners with student
visas and contact the immigration service if there appear to be problems,
obligating them to take on a new policing function.

David Ward, president of the American Council on Education, said he had no
objection to the crackdown on foreigners who violated the terms of their student
visas. Mr. Ward, who was born in Britain, recalled that when he completed his
studies at an American university in the 1970's he received a letter from the
immigration service telling him that he had four weeks to leave the country. He
did so, he said, and returned later.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 15, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: FOREIGN STUDENTS;
College Officials Are Wary on Visa Enforcement

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14


Although college officials have publicly promised to cooperate with a crackdown
on foreign students who overstay their visas, the officials are privately
concerned that the effort may discourage foreigners from applying to American
colleges, where they represent an important source of revenue and research
assistance.

On Wednesday, immigration agents in San Diego arrested 10 foreigners accused of
violating the terms of their student visas, after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had compared visa and academic records. About 90 percent
of the students who had visas were attending classes, but 10 percent had
apparently dropped out or finished their studies, yet remained here.

Officials said the arrests were not dictated by the immigration agency
headquarters in Washington. The agency has been under intense Congressional
pressure to close loopholes in issuing visas and tracking foreigners,
particularly students.

Separately, law enforcement and immigration officials have been asking
universities to help locate students whose names are on a list of 5,000
foreigners that Attorney General John Ashcroft's office wants for questioning.
College representatives have publicly said they had no interest in protecting
students who might break the law.

"Of course, we support the enforcement of the law, and people who are found to
be in violation of their visa status should be subjected to the appropriate
penalties," Victor Johnson of the Association of International Educators said.
"We do note that most of the students are right where they should have been."

At the Colorado School of Mines in Golden, I.N.S. agents interviewed five
students from Indonesia, Iran and Jordan, asking at least one of them whether
any other international students he knew might have violated the terms of their
visa. The papers of the five students were all in order, but the experience
disturbed school officials on some level.

"We're like most other schools," Anne Walker, legal counsel for the college,
said through a spokeswoman. "We're caught between cooperating in national
security efforts and laws to protect the students privacy and, then, general
concern for our students, too."

A higher education official familiar with international programs said
universities were deeply concerned by the array of measures that threatened
civil liberties and that might affect students.

"On Day 1, it's military tribunals," the official said. "On Day 2, it's this
list of 5,000. Day 3, no confidential conversations with lawyers, and on Day 4,
you're rousting them out of bed for administrative violations."

At Georgetown University, a spokeswoman, Julie G. Bataille, said the university
was "concerned about isolating specific students on the basis of their
nationality when that's so counter to our mission."

A government official said the immigration office in San Diego began its effort
by focusing on students from eight countries that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation has named as havens for terrorists, Afghanistan, Iran, Libya,
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Sudan and Yemen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 1, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRANTS;
As Dragnet Continues, Citizenship Filings Rise

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31


The government's clampdown on the civil liberties of noncitizens since the
attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon has led to an increase in
naturalization requests by Arab and Muslim immigrants, some immigration lawyers
are reporting.

Although federal officials say naturalization applications are down over all,
lawyers in some of the nation's largest Arab and Muslim communities say
applications for citizenship from members of these groups have increased by as
much as a third since mid-September.

Steven N. Garmo, an immigration lawyer with clients in Dearborn, Mich., where
one in four people are Arab-American, said he processed 80 to 100 requests for
citizenship last year, the majority of those for Arabs and Muslims with
permanent resident status. Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Mr. Garmo said,
filings are up by more than 30 percent.

"I attribute this to so-called aliens who feel that their liberties are
jeopardized" since the Bush administration began its domestic war on terror, he
said. "They are treated as foreigners and are deportable."

Over all, the Immigration and Naturalization Service says naturalization
requests filed for September, October and November fell 28 percent from the same
period last year. Information on applications received from citizens of Middle
Eastern countries since Sept. 11 will not be available until summer, Eyleen
Schmidt, an agency spokeswoman, said.

Moreover, the agency does not record the religious affiliation of immigrants
applying for citizenship.

In 1998, the last year for which the agency released figures, 463,000 people
became United States citizens, Ms. Schmidt said. About 12,000 of those, or 2.6
percent, were from Middle Eastern countries, which include Afghanistan, Iraq and
Iran.  Ms. Schmidt did not say how many applications in 1998 were rejected.

Still, if law offices like those of Sohail Mohammed in Clifton, N.J., are any
indication, Arab and Muslim immigrants are in agreement on the need to
naturalize.

Just four days after the attacks, phones at Mr. Mohammed's firm were ringing
with Arab and Muslim immigrants from the nearby Arab neighborhood in Paterson,
eager to begin the citizenship process. Some were motivated by the legal
protections that citizenship offered, Mr. Mohammed said, others by the prospect
of voting in next year's Congressional elections.

"I don't really have to spend a lot of time with my clients now to convince them
to become citizens," Mr. Mohammed said.

Many of Mr. Mohammed's clients, like Ahmed Jaheen, 35, had lived legally in the
United States for years before deciding to naturalize after Sept. 11.

"After all that's happened, it's about time to prove that the Muslim is a
positive person," said Mr. Jaheen, an Egyptian living in Passaic County, N.J.,
since 1995 with his wife and daughter.

"We want to select the president, the Congress," he said, "and share a hand in
helping to build this country."

Immigrants who have lived legally in the United States as permanent residents
for at least five years are eligible to become American citizens, slightly less
time for those who became immigrants through marriage to Americans. In most
cases, the naturalization process takes 6 to 12 months, immigration experts
said.  Applications require a $220 processing fee, which will increase to $260
on Feb. 19.

For years, millions of foreigners living legally in the United States saw no
urgency in applying for citizenship. Many legal Arab and Muslim immigrants
changed their views after Sept. 11.

"We are not giving them much choice" but to naturalize, said Hussein Ibish,
communications director for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee in
Washington.

Since the government's investigation into the September attacks began, hundreds
of Middle Eastern immigrants have been detained on charges of immigration
violations. The Patriot Act, approved since the attacks, gives Attorney General
John Ashcroft broad latitude in indefinitely detaining foreigners if they are
deemed a security threat.

Now, permanent residents lacking citizenship status face the possibility of
detention -- even deportation -- for such infractions as violating visas.

"Obviously, you have greater protection now if you are a citizen," said Ibrahim
Hooper, a spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, an advocacy
group in Washington. "If you are not an absolute card-carrying citizen, anything
can be done to you."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 9, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION CONTROL;
I.N.S. to Focus On Muslims Who Evade Deportation

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8


Justice Department officials said today that a new effort to find and deport
people who have fled to avoid previous deportation orders would begin with
tracking several thousand men from Muslim and Middle Eastern countries that have
Al Qaeda presences.

The officials said although the men from Muslim and Middle Eastern countries
constituted a small fraction of those who have ignored deportation orders, they
would be the initial focus of efforts to locate evaders and expel them.

James W. Ziglar, the new commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, told Congress last month that 314,000 people were "ab scondees," that
is they were ordered deported but "jumped bail, absconded and disappeared into
the woodwork of the country."

Mr. Ziglar said then that the I.N.S. would, for the first time, begin feeding
those names into a computer directory that tracks people whom the government is
seeking in the effort to gain control of the immigration system. That would mean
that any time one of those individuals was detained, even for a traffic stop,
the name would supposedly appear on a routine computer search that would show
that the immigrant was wanted on a deportation order.

Justice Department officials declined to name the countries involved other than
to say they have active Al Qaeda cells.

The plan to begin the program with Muslim and Middle Eastern men was first
reported today in The Washington Post. Estimates of how many people could be
involved range from 4,000 to 6,000, officials said. Most of the 314,000
abscondees are from Latin America.

"Terrorist attacks by Al Qaeda within the United States are a continuing threat
to Americans," the Justice Department said tonight in a statement. "We will
continue to focus investigative, intelligence-gathering and enforcement
operations on individuals in the U.S. from countries with highly active Al Qaeda
networks to protect Americans."

Officials said federal law enforcement agencies would play a new role in the
effort to find Muslim and Middle Eastern men to be deported. Antiterrorism teams
made up of federal, state and local officers that have been formed in most
larger cities since Sept. 11, will help immigration authorities to find
deportable immigrants, using procedures similar to those employed to find 5,000
mainly Middle Eastern men who were sought for interviews after the attacks.

In addition, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been asked to search its
databases to determine whether any of those sought have been arrested for other
crimes, providing information that could disclose their whereabouts.

Some civil liberties and Arab American advocacy groups questioned the fairness
of that policy. A spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations in
Washington, Ibrahim Hooper, said the policy was greatly dismaying.

"If you add in this new policy," Mr. Hooper said in an interview, "with several
others announced by this administration like their plans to question 5,000
Muslim men who are here legally, the effect is to create a perception in the
Muslim and Arab American community that there is a two-tier legal system, one
for the majority and another for the people who are Muslim or Arab American.

"Anybody who breaks the law and ignores a deportation order deserves to be
arrested. But to single people out solely on their religion and ethnicity goes
against longstanding values of equal protection of the law."

Before Sept. 11, the merest hint of using profiles to screen for potential
wrongdoers was widely regarded as a violation of some elementary American value.
But the debate has become more complex.

"Profiling is not a four-letter word," said Victoria Toensing, a lawyer in
Washington and a former senior Justice Department official.

Ms. Toensing said in an interview that it was naive to think that the national
or ethnic characteristics of Al Qaeda terrorists should not be taken into
account in some fashion.

"It's Al Qaeda that has profiled by choosing principally radical Muslims, mostly
from Middle Eastern countries," she said. "Prioritizing by looking at males who
come from countries where there is support for Al Qaeda is common-sensical."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: STUDENT VISAS;
EFFORTS TO TRACK FOREIGN STUDENTS ARE SAID TO LAG

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE and CHRISTOPHER DREW

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1692 words


Despite promises to tighten controls on student visas after Sept. 11, the
government is at least a year from making the system safer from terrorists, who
used the visas while plotting the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and the
September attacks, immigration officials say.

A computer network to track foreign students in the country, originally ordered
by Congress six years ago, is still being tested and will not be running fully
until next year. Even then, immigration service officials said, there will not
be enough enforcement agents to check on all of the visa violators flagged by
the system.

Moreover, colleges that see foreign students as a lucrative market are raising
concerns about how the system will be paid for and operated, and their
objections could delay it even further. Officials concede they do not know for
sure where the 547,000 people holding student visas are attending school, or
whether they actually are.

The halting efforts to plug the student visa system reflect the overall
difficulty of improving domestic defense, most notably airline security. Even in
a world said to be forever changed by terrorism, demands for better security
are, just four months after the attacks, hitting an old reality of competing
interests, entrenched lobbies and reluctance to make financial or practical
sacrifices.

"As we get further and further from Sept. 11, there has been kind of a
resumption of the traditional battle lines," said Representative Anthony Weiner,
Democrat of New York.

Certainly, Sept. 11 inspired widespread agreement about the need to change a
system that allowed the names of foreign students to pile up unread in
immigration offices and permitted Hani Hanjour, for example, to enter this
country on a student visa and roam free until, the authorities say, he flew
American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon.

But last week, higher education institutions again raised a raft of objections,
sending a letter to the Immigration and Naturalization Service that called the
planned system unworkable and demanding technical advisory groups and training.

Keeping track of newcomers on student visas might seem straightforward. But like
other issues of domestic defense, it gets tangled in complexities. Universities
say that policing students violates the culture of academic freedom.

In addition, any new push to monitor the 74,000 universities and technical
schools where foreign students are enrolled will strain government agencies that
even before Sept. 11 were considered the weakest link in fighting terrorism.
Even in big cities, the immigration service typically assigns only one person to
work on visas with colleges and myriad other schools offering subjects like
computer, language and flight training.

The issue is particularly pressing for community and technical colleges, which
rely heavily on foreign students because they pay higher tuition. The colleges
aggressively market themselves with Web sites in, among other languages, Arabic
and with recruiting trips around the world. The Illinois Institute of
Technology, for example, enrolls a higher percentage of foreign students than do
Harvard, New York University or Columbia. Over all, foreign students spent $12
billion in the United States last year.

President Bush first promised better monitoring of student visas in October. On
Friday, he said he was increasing the immigration service budget by 29 percent,
which immigration officials said would largely be used for computer systems to
track the more than 30 million visas issued in this country each year.

Immigration officials said it was unclear if they would be able to hire more
enforcement agents. They said many of the extra resources the agency had
received in recent years had gone toward tightening the Mexican border. There
are now only 2,000 immigration enforcement agents nationwide, and they have an
array of duties that include tracking hundreds of thousands of visa violators.

Michael Becraft, the acting deputy commissioner of the immigration service,
recently told Congress that it had been hard for enforcement agents to monitor
foreign students because the agents are "focused in a lot of different
directions." Once the tracking system is completed, the agency will need to find
ways to scan the database to pinpoint the visa violators who seem most likely to
pose a threat.

The Iranian hostage crisis in 1979 first raised the possibility of militants'
entering the country disguised as students. In 1983, the immigration service
began requiring colleges to report when students showed up and when they left,
to make sure they did not violate the time limits imposed by their visas. But by
1988, the paper forms that reported this information had piled up so high in
immigration offices that officials told the colleges to stop sending them.

Foreign students now apply for visas in their home countries and then report to
the immigration service at the border. But the agency takes six months to a year
to report to the colleges on whom they should be expecting. The colleges do not
confirm that these students actually show up unless the immigration service
asks, which generally does not happen.

The visa forms themselves present several opportunities for abuse. Before
students enter the country, they can receive forms known as I-20's from several
colleges or technical schools, depending on how many offer them admission. The
students are supposed to use only the form from the institution they plan to
attend when they apply for a visa. But immigration officials acknowledge that
the extra forms can be forged to obtain multiple visas. Complicating the problem
is that community colleges and language schools often have open enrollment, and
send I-20's freely.

In the days after Sept. 11, immigration officials had to admit to Congress that
they had no idea how many foreign students had overstayed or violated their
visas, as Mr. Hanjour had. He supposedly was coming to the United States to take
an English course at a language school in California, but never attended..

Certainly other people have taken advantage of the holes in the system. The
terrorist who drove the bomb-laden truck to the World Trade Center in 1993 had
entered the country on a student visa but never enrolled in the language school
he claimed to be attending. In San Diego, several community college officials
were convicted of taking bribes to secure visas for Middle Eastern students from
1989 to 1995.

The first World Trade Center attack prompted Louis J. Freeh, then the director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to call for tighter monitoring of who
entered the country. In 1996, Congress passed a law that required computerized
tracking of students when they received visas, when they entered the country and
when they enrolled in college, allowing the immigration service to quickly tell
when they violated the visa's conditions. The system was to track what they were
studying, and any change in address.

Higher education lobbying groups resisted, however, saying that there was no
evidence that terrorists were abusing student visas and that any limits would
deter foreign students and potentially put their institutions out of business.
Twice they persuaded Congress to delay the start of the system, most recently
until January 2003.

Small language schools, some of which combine three-week language courses with
trips to Disneyland, have resisted almost any oversight. The immigration service
backed off a proposal to have them accredited when the schools said the process
would be too expensive.

"This was a system run for the profit and convenience of the universities, and
it was run more with the intention of making money than anything else," said
Representative George Miller, Democrat of California.

Even as late as August, the Association of International Educators, an outspoken
opponent of the computerized system, sent a letter to its members encouraging
them to support a bill to repeal the law requiring it.

The association endorsed the system in the days after Sept. 11, in part to fend
off an effort in Congress to impose an outright moratorium on student visas.

But the regulations dictating how and when the colleges will be required to
enter the information in the system remain to be worked out, and the
institutions still object to many aspects of the plan. In particular, they warn
that a proposal to collect a $95 fee from visa applicants would cause too much
delay and steer students to competing countries like Australia and Canada.

"We're losing a market share of students who were going to come here," said
George Beers, dean of international and distance education at Foothill College
in Los Altos Hills, Calif., where $11 million of a $130 million budget comes
from foreign students. "I think there's some overreaction in Congress. There's a
few senators that feel they need to show they're doing something, and this is an
easy, very visible area."

The colleges have also objected to a plan proposed by Mr. Miller that would
prevent foreign students from receiving diplomas until they confirm that they
have either returned home or have extended their visas.

The immigration service says it plans to have its new system ready for colleges
to use voluntarily this summer. Since Sept. 11, Congress has insisted that the
system must be in operation by next January.

In the letter released last week, the higher education organizations said they
were "deeply worried" that the system would not be fully operating by that
deadline. "Efforts to launch such systems without adequate preparation are
doomed to failure," they warned.

Immigration officials seemed annoyed by the letter. "Everyone involved must
recognize that Congress and the American people want this system up and running,
and we intend to do just that," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for
the immigration service.

The colleges continue to argue that the system would not have prevented the
attacks. "It is clear that singling out only students -- which represent less
than 2 percent of those visitors -- will not increase our national security,"
the Association of International Educators has said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Beers of Foothill College meeting with an Indian student,
Sharmila Mathews, to discuss her visa. (Peter DaSilva for The New York
Times)(pg. A7) Chart: "An Education in America"More students from around the
world are attending colleges and universities in the United States. Grapg tracks
total international students enrolled, 1960-2001*(as percentage of all students)
*Academic years Institutions with highest number of international students,
2000-2001 RANK: 1INSTITUTION: New York UniversityNUMBER OF FOREIGN STUDENTS:
5,399 RANK: 2INSTITUTION: University of Southern CaliforniaNUMBER OF FOREIGN
STUDENTS: 5,321 RANK: 3INSTITUTION: Columbia UniversityNUMBER OF FOREIGN
STUDENTS: 4,837 RANK: 4INSTITUTION: Purdue University Main CampusNUMBER OF
FOREIGN STUDENTS: 4,469 RANK: 5INSTITUTION: Boston UniversityNUMBER OF FOREIGN
STUDENTS: 4,443 RANK: 6INSTITUTION: University of Texas at AustinNUMBER OF
FOREIGN STUDENTS: 4,320 RANK: 7INSTITUTION: Ohio State University Main
CampusNUMBER OF FOREIGN STUDENTS: 4,035 RANK: 8INSTITUTION: University of
Michigan at Ann ArborNUMBER OF FOREIGN STUDENTS: 4,004 RANK: 9INSTITUTION:
University of Wisconsin at MadisonNUMBER OF FOREIGN STUDENTS: 3,938 RANK:
10INSTITUTION: Northern Virginia Community CollegeNUMBER OF FOREIGN STUDENTS:
3,877 Top 10 countries of origin, 2000-2001 RANK: 1COUNTRY: China RANK:
2COUNTRY: India RANK: 3COUNTRY: Japan RANK: 4COUNTRY: South Korea RANK:
5COUNTRY: Taiwan RANK: 6COUNTRY: Canada RANK: 7COUNTRY: Indonesia RANK:
8COUNTRY: Thailand RANK: 9COUNTRY: Turkey RANK: 10COUNTRY: Mexico(Source:
Institute of International Education)(pg. A7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 12, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Gives Children Voice In Deportation

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words


A federal judge in Brooklyn has provoked a fierce debate among immigration
experts with a recent ruling that American officials cannot deport an immigrant
because he is a felon unless they first consider the impact on a child he would
leave behind in this country.

The ruling was unprecedented, experts on immigration law say, in holding that
international law requires that American officials determine whether the
deportation of a parent would be in the "best interests of the child."

Human rights lawyers are calling the decision a landmark that sets the stage for
broader American application of international legal concepts protecting the
sanctity of the family. But critics are ridiculing the decision as judicial
activism that would limit the sweeping powers of immigration officials, just as
they are using those powers in the campaign against terrorism.

In a ruling on Jan. 22 that is drawing attention from immigration lawyers
nationally, the judge, Jack B. Weinstein, of United States District Court, said
it was critical for the United States to obey international legal principles
while it is enforcing other principles of international law, like those that bar
terrorism.

"The United States," Judge Weinstein wrote, "cannot expect to reap the benefits
of internationally recognized human rights in the form of greater worldwide
stability and respect for people without being willing to adhere to them
itself."

Judge Weinstein, who was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson, has a long
history of pushing the edges of the law.

His ruling came in the case of a 26-year-old man who was born in Trinidad but
lived most of his life in Westchester County. He was convicted in 1996 of a $714
coffee-shop robbery in Scarsdale. His daughter, who is 7 and an American
citizen, would remain in this country with her grandmother, also an American
citizen.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is planning an appeal, said a
spokesman for the agency in Washington, Bill Strassberger.

Judge Weinstein's ruling dealt only with the case of the single immigrant, Don
Beharry, who has been in immigration detention for nearly three years since he
completed his sentence for the robbery. But the appeal, legal experts say, will
turn the case into a major battle about immigration policy.

"If immigration officials always had to account for the best interests of the
child in weighing whether to deport someone, that would radically change
immigration practice," said Gerald L. Neuman, an authority on immigration law
who teaches at Columbia Law School.

Some legal experts said that the decision by Judge Weinstein appeared to be
intended as a major challenge to the law in an effort to mitigate the increasing
inflexibility of immigration laws in recent years.

Jennifer M. Green, a lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights, which filed
a "friend of the court" brief in support of Mr. Beharry, said her group would
fight to convince the appeals court that consideration of the effects of a
deportation on children was essential.

But critics say Judge Weinstein's ruling was a bald attempt to circumvent
Congress, which passed provisions in 1996 that strictly limited the authority of
immigration judges to keep convicted felons from being deported.

"What this decision is saying, is that the American people don't have total
authority over who lives in this country," said Mark S. Krikorian, the executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, which urges
tougher enforcement of immigration laws.

Mr. Beharry's daughter, Ashley, has lived most of her life without either
parent, said Sandra Beharry, Ashley's grandmother. Ashley's mother left long
ago, Ms. Beharry said.

But the other day after school, Ashley herself said that even though she had
been separated from her father for most of her life, she thought about him all
the time and visited him at the detention center regularly.

"I think I love him very, very much," she said. To live with him someday, she
said, "would be very fun and it would be better than anything in the whole wide
world."

Judge Weinstein's order directed the immigration service to hold a hearing to
consider the effects that deporting Mr. Beharry might have on his daughter. At
such a hearing, an immigration judge might decide to hear from Ashley herself,
as Family Court judges routinely hear from children when they are considering,
for example, whether custody by one parent or the other would be in the best
interests of the child.

Her grandmother said Ashley yearned for a real parent in her life. In Ashley's
room, she said, she often finds drawings showing Ashley and her dad together one
imagined day.

Without Judge Weinstein's ruling, Ms. Beharry said, there would be no chance for
father and daughter to be together. She said she had brought her son to this
country when he was 6. She was the last of her family to come to the United
States from Trinidad, so her son has no family or acquaintances there.

Before he was arrested, Mr. Beharry worked in a video store and a pizza parlor,
she said. He has no training that would enable him to make a life for his
daughter in a country far from New York, which he has always considered to be
his home, Ms. Beharry said. He was a legal permanent resident but neglected to
apply for citizenship.

Courts have long accepted the principle relied upon by Judge Weinstein -- that
American judges can rely upon "customary international law."

But David A. Martin, a University of Virginia law professor who is a former
general counsel for the immigration service, said lawyers for the agency would
probably argue that international law does not require special consideration of
the interests of children in making deportation decisions. He called Judge
Weinstein's interpretation of international law "at best, a stretch."

But the decision in Mr. Beharry's case expanded those ideas to focus
specifically on the impact on a child, citing the international Convention on
the Rights of the Child.

Ms. Beharry said she did not know the legal details of the case. But she said
Ashley should have the same opportunities the children of American-born fathers
who get into trouble with the law have. After they serve their time, she said,
those children and fathers can be reunited.

Ashley expressed her hope in the language of little girls everywhere who are
separated from their fathers. "Every time I go see him," she said, "he always
says he'll come home to see me on my birthday and that he loves me and when he
comes he'll bring me a present."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashley Beharry, who lives with her grandmother, Sandra Beharry,
wants to be reunited with her father, Don, who faces deportation. (Susan Farley
for The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Though Not Linked to Terrorism, Many Detainees Cannot Go Home

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER DREW with JUDITH MILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1679 words


The Justice Department has blocked the departures of 87 foreign detainees who
had been ordered deported or had agreed to go home, while investigators comb
through information pouring in from overseas to ensure that they have no ties to
terrorism, law enforcement officials say.

Most of the detainees are Arabs or Muslims, and many have spent more than 100
days in jail waiting to leave the country, with no end to detention in sight.
Nearly all were jailed after being picked up on visa violations at traffic stops
or because of neighbors' suspicions.

Officials said available evidence suggested they had played no role in the Sept.
11 attacks or Osama bin Laden's Qaeda network, and the immigration cases against
some of them were resolved as long as four months ago.

They have nonetheless been held in an unusual legal limbo while investigators
check their backgrounds and new evidence about Al Qaeda and other terrorist
groups emerging from Afghanistan and other countries.

In the past, visa violators who had no other charges against them were usually
deported or allowed to leave voluntarily 60 to 90 days after their immigration
cases were closed, lawyers said. But these detainees are being treated
differently.

American officials acknowledged a great reluctance to release people who could
be involved with terrorism and said that the Federal Bureau of Investigation was
working hard to complete the checks.

"We have to be very careful about the people we let go," said a senior Justice
Department official, who spoke on condition of not being identified by name.

Civil liberties advocates agreed that the government needed to be careful but
said the delays were stretching the normal legal timetables. The government,
they said, was in the dubious position of holding people indefinitely without
charging them with a crime.

"It's gotten to where we're really in uncharted waters," said Lee Gelernt, a
senior lawyer for the Immigrants' Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties
Union. "The government has effectively reversed the presumption of innocence.
They are holding people for months once their immigration cases are concluded
while they look to see if there is a reason to bring other charges."

Immigration lawyers say the new policy, created by Attorney General John
Ashcroft shortly after Sept. 11, has led to a collision between the traditional
rights afforded foreigners and the need for heightened security. Many of the
detainees do not have lawyers, but some who do have begun to file lawsuits in
federal court demanding their release.

In response, the Justice Department official said: "There is some justification
in their position that we can't hold the detainees forever. But we feel we do
have some leeway."

Law enforcement officials said that some detainees were still being scrutinized
but that many others had been released recently or were simply awaiting
completion of travel arrangements or new passport documents. More than 700
people were held on immigration charges after Sept. 11. Officials said on Friday
that they were still holding 327 people, including the 87 already under
departure orders.

Interviews with defense lawyers suggest that the clearance process has delayed
the release of many of the detainees held in New York and New Jersey. A close
look at some cases shows that the inquiries have created murky standoffs in
which the F.B.I. cannot prove that the detainees are dangerous and the detainees
cannot allay the F.B.I.'s suspicions.

For instance, Ahmed Alenany, a cabdriver in Brooklyn, was caught in the
post-Sept. 11 dragnet when it was found that he had overstayed his visa. He said
he told an immigration judge in October that he did not need a lawyer and just
wanted to get home to his wife and two children in Cairo as soon as possible.

When the judge suggested that deportation would be the fastest route, he said,
he agreed to be deported.

In a recent interview at the Middlesex County Jail in New Jersey, Mr. Alenany,
50, who was trained as a doctor, said he had divided his time between New York
and Egypt in the last five years.

He said he came to New York seeking specialized medical training, but he had
little money and ended up driving a cab. He was arrested on Sept. 21 after a
police officer in Brooklyn questioned why he had stopped in a no-parking zone
and found that his visa had expired.

It is not hard to see why investigators were suspicious. Mr. Alenany said he had
taped a photograph of the White House in the back window of his cab. He had also
fastened a picture of the World Trade Center to his glove box, with a piece of
black tape slanting across an upper corner.

He said he told F.B.I. agents that he had lived for nine years in Saudi Arabia,
where he also drove a cab before getting a job as a doctor. Mr. Alenany also
volunteered that around 1990, he dropped off a disabled man at the home of a
wealthy benefactor, who gave the passenger $50. He said he later heard that the
benefactor was Osama bin Laden.

But in the interview in jail, Mr. Alenany said all these events were more
innocent than they might have sounded to the F.B.I.

He said he placed the photographs in his cab to show his sympathy for America's
suffering and the black mark across the top of the World Trade Center photograph
was a common Egyptian symbol of mourning. He also said he had never seen or met
Mr. bin Laden and was not even sure the house he went to as a cabdriver was Mr.
bin Laden's.

"I told that story voluntarily, but I feel that I put myself in a very critical
position," Mr. Alenany said, adding that he was in despair over losing his dream
of living in America.

"When I was 6 years of age, I was starving," he said. "And I smelled a beautiful
smell. And when I asked what it was, someone said it was cheese from America, a
far, faraway land. From this time on I felt love for America."

But, he added: "Now I'm in very bad shape, sir. Sometimes I feel it's hopeless,
that I will stay in this jail all my life."

Mr. Alenany said that law enforcement officials took him into custody on Sept.
21 and searched his $300-a-month room in Brooklyn the next day. He received his
deportation order at a court hearing on Oct. 16. That means today is his 151st
day in custody and the 125th since the deportation order.

After his room was searched, Mr. Alenany said, he did not hear from the F.B.I.
again until Jan. 17, when agents visited him in jail. He said they told him that
American intelligence agencies had information about, or had intercepted, a
phone call in which he made anti-American comments. He said they did not say
what he had said or tell him when the conversation had taken place. He said he
denied making such statements.

In one other meeting, on Jan. 29, investigators sought his help, Mr. Alenany
said. They asked him about immigration violations, unrelated to terrorism,
involving other people he knew, he said.

Justice Department and immigration officials declined to comment on Mr.
Alenany's case. But defense lawyers said that the effort to gather investigative
leads could further delay the release of some detainees.

Mahmoud Allam, Egypt's consul general in New York, said his government had tried
to help Mr. Alenany and other detained Egyptians.

"This is a common case -- people who get decisions for deportation from a court,
and then they are not implemented," Mr. Allam said. Egyptian officials endorsed
efforts by the United States to tighten security, he said, but, referring to the
difficulty of some detainees in getting out of jail, he added, "It reminds you
of the famous Kafka story of 'The Trial.' "

Bhanu Goldsmith, a New Jersey lawyer, said she represented a detainee from
Mauritania who agreed to leave in early November, prompting an immigration
service lawyer to predict that the man would be home by Thanksgiving. But, Ms.
Goldsmith said, she recently heard that the man was still in jail, awaiting
F.B.I. clearance.

Officials at the immigration agency, which is part of the Justice Department,
said they were ordered to move more slowly with those detained after Sept. 11
than with other visa violators.

Referring to the F.B.I. reviews, Andrea Quarantilla, the immigration service's
district director in Newark, said, "There is certainly an extra step in the
process."

Lawyers for the detainees say visa violators who agree to leave usually must
leave in 60 days but can sometimes take as many as 120 days.

Federal law provides that deportations should take place within 90 days of a
deportation order. But the Supreme Court has ruled that the immigration service
can extend that to 180 days if other countries refuse to accept a deportee.

Civil rights lawyers said deportation laws were enacted to deal with cases in
which the government was trying to make people leave. "But now we have the
opposite situation, where the alien is ready to comply and leave but the
government doesn't want to let him go," said Bryan Lonegan, a lawyer at the
Legal Aid Society in New York.

The only recourse for detainees held longer, lawyers say, is to file writs of
mandamus in the federal courts to try to force the immigration service to send
them home, or to file writs of habeas corpus to seek release.

Aslan Soobzokov, a lawyer in Paterson, N.J., said he recently filed habeas
corpus petitions for three people detained after Sept. 11 and the government
quickly sent two of them back to their native country, Turkey.

Regis Fernandez, a lawyer in Newark, said that shortly after he filed a writ of
mandamus on behalf of a 21-year-old Australian of Arab descent, the immigration
service notified him on Friday that the man had suddenly been cleared to leave.

Justice Department officials said they recognized that such petitions could
become the next battleground involving the detainees.

"I'm not saying that in this large universe of people we haven't made some
mistakes and held some people longer than we wanted to," the senior Justice
Department official said. But the F.B.I. was pushing to complete the background
checks, he said, and had "no interest in detaining people who are not a threat
to us."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmed Alenany agreed to deportation for overstaying his visa,
hoping to get home quickly to his family in Cairo. Today is his 151st day in
custody. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 4, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Four Youths Languishing In Custody Of the I.N.S.

BYLINE:  By JOHN FILES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3


Last July, four teenagers from Tanzania who apparently hoped to stay in the
United States to attend school wandered away from a Boy Scout jamboree in
Virginia.

The youths, 15 to 17 years old, made their way 80 miles to Washington, then
slept in a park, they later told their lawyer. They had been missing for about
30 hours when they asked a police officer for help.

The police called the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which notified the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The teenagers were placed in a juvenile
shelter in Berks County, Pa., where they remain.

The immigration service began deportation proceedings against them, contending
they had essentially changed their immigration status when they sought to stay
in the country, said Andrew D. Morton, a lawyer who represents them free.

In November, an immigration judge dismissed the government's deportation case,
ruling that the boys had not broken any laws and had tourist visas through Jan.
22. The immigration service appealed, "running out the clock" for the visas to
expire, Mr. Morton said.

The boys did not want to return to their country, he said, for fear of reprisals
for embarrassing its government. Their parents wanted them placed with foster
families and permitted to stay in the United States.

Immigration judges are often reluctant to issue a final order of removal against
children who do not have a lawyer and instead continue the cases, resulting in
long detentions, Mr. Morton said.

Thousands of unaccompanied children are detained each year by the immigration
agency. Some have fled human rights abuses, including forced recruitment as
soldiers, child labor and prostitution. Others are brought here by child
traffickers.

As provider and captor for roughly 500 children on any day, the immigration
service is caught in a conflict of interest, critics say.

"Whatever the merits of each individual case, we should be able to agree on one
thing -- that the welfare and well-being of these children belongs in the hands
of someone other than their prosecutors," said Robert E. Hirshon, the president
of the American Bar Association. "This inherent conflict of interest does not
ensure that children's interests are respected or that they are treated fairly."

Mr. Morton said that as many as 80 percent of unaccompanied juveniles appeared
in court without a lawyer or a guardian.

"The I.N.S. with its primary mission of immigration law enforcement simply
cannot ensure the legal interests of an unrepresented child," Mr. Morton said.
"They should not want that responsibility, and they should not have it. The
system is to blame, and that system must be fixed."

The detention of immigrant children has drawn the attention of lawmakers. Both
houses of Congress are considering bills to create an Office of Children's
Services in the Department of Justice.

As the number of detained children has steadily increased, to 4,607 in 1999 from
about 2,375 in 1997, pilot programs have begun in some states to ensure that all
children in the immigration agency's custody get lawyers.

Stuart Anderson, associate commissioner for policy and planning at the
immigration service, said about half of the juveniles in the agency's custody in
2001 were placed with a parent or other relative.

But at a hearing this week on Capitol Hill, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat
of California, said the system lacked accountability.

Michael J. Creppy, chief judge for the office of immigration review, conceded at
the hearing, "We have no accurate way of accounting for the number of
unaccompanied juveniles who come through the system."

Senator Feinstein has introduced legislation that would require that
unaccompanied alien children receive appropriate treatment and a lawyer while in
custody. The measure would transfer responsibility for the children from the
immigration service to another agency in the Justice Department, which would set
standards for detention, release and legal representation.

"Our government has an obligation to better protect these children," Senator
Feinstein said.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the
immigration panel, said more than 30 percent of the children in custody were
housed in juvenile jails, subject to searches, handcuffing and shackling, and
required to wear prison uniforms.

Those who are not sent to secure facilities, Senator Kennedy said, languish for
long periods in shelters designed for short stays, "without adequate access to
translators, telephones or medical care and other vital service."

The system does not work the way it should, he said. "Too many children are
falling through the cracks."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 7, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

GROUND ZERO: DETAINEES;
Civil Liberties Groups Sue U.S. On Closed Immigration Hearings

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 6


Several civil liberties groups sued the federal government today, challenging
its closed immigration hearings for those detained in New Jersey in the
investigation of the Sept. 11 terror attacks.

New Jersey is home to hundreds of immigrants who were taken into custody after
the attacks, and this lawsuit is the second over the detentions filed by the
state chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union -- this time on behalf of
two newspapers seeking to attend the hearings.

An unspecified number of unidentified detainees from Jersey City, Paterson and
other immigrant population centers in North Jersey have been held in the area's
county jails since being rounded up in the wake of the attacks six months ago.
Passaic County has acknowledged that its jail houses about 150 detainees under a
contract with the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

This morning, the New Jersey A.C.L.U., the Center for Constitutional Rights in
New York and other legal groups filed suit in Federal District Court here,
challenging the constitutionality of hearings that have been ordered closed by
Michael J. Creppy, the nation's chief immigration judge. Essentially, the suit
asserts that the First Amendment protects access to government proceedings.

Judge Creppy, following a directive from the United States attorney general,
John Ashcroft, issued a Sept. 21 memo on these so-called special interest cases,
instructing his subordinates to "hold the hearings individually, to close the
hearing to the public and to avoid discussing the case or otherwise disclosing
any information about the case to anyone outside the Immigration Court."

The A.C.L.U. named Mr. Ashcroft and Judge Creppy as defendants in the suit filed
today, which was brought on behalf of The New Jersey Law Journal and The Herald
News, which is based in West Paterson.

Stephen McCarthy, a managing editor for The Herald News, which has a daily
circulation of 38,000, said the lawsuit was intended "to ensure the free flow of
information to which our readers are entitled."

A hearing on the lawsuit is scheduled for April 5.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 14, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Is Sued for Legal Aid for Minors It Holds

BYLINE:  By JOHN FILES

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13


Legal groups are suing to require the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
provide free legal representation for hundreds of minors being detained in
deportation cases.

Lawyers from Columbia Legal Services, the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project and
the Southern Poverty Law Center are representing Marcos Gonzalez Machado, 15, a
Mexican. Marcos is being held at a juvenile detention center in eastern
Washington and the I.N.S. is seeking to return him to Mexico.

The lawyers have asked to make their case a class-action suit, to include other
immigrant children who are in the custody of the immigration agency. The groups
have named the agency, Attorney General John Ashcroft and the Seattle district
director for the agency, Robert Coleman, as defendants.

Last week, a federal judge in Spokane, Wash., halted deportation proceedings for
Marcos until he decided on the class-action request. The judge also ordered that
counsel be appointed for Marcos at the government's expense.

Rhonda Brownstein, a lawyer working on the case at the Southern Poverty Law
Center in Montgomery, Ala., said the judge's decision to intervene was
"unprecedented."

At an immigration hearing last month, Marcos signed a consent agreement that
waived his right to contest deportation, his lawyers said. But Marcos, who
speaks limited English and has been living with relatives in Seattle for nine
months, said he wanted to remain in the United States. He was taken into custody
last month after he told the police that he had been kidnapped. The police
turned him over to immigration officials.

"No child, much less a child who has limited English skills, should be required
to navigate one of our nation's most complex statutory schemes on his or her
own," Ms. Brownstein wrote in papers filed with the suit.

Thousands of unaccompanied children are detained annually by the immigration
agency. Some have fled poverty and human rights abuses. Others are brought to
the United States by child smugglers.

The immigration agency said that it was committed to the safety and welfare of
unaccompanied youths, but that it was under no obligation to provide them with
lawyers.

Critics say that as provider, prosecutor and captor for hundreds of children,
the agency is caught in a conflict of interest.

"It is clear that these children need legal representation," the president of
the American Bar Association, Robert E. Hirshon, said. "And they ought to have
it. Period."

The detention of immigrant children has caught the attention of lawmakers.
Legislation is pending in both houses of Congress to create an Office of
Children's Services in the Justice Department.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, has introduced a bill that
would require unaccompanied children from overseas to receive appropriate
treatment and counsel while in custody. She has said as many as 80 percent of
unaccompanied youths appear in court without lawyers or guardians.

The measure would transfer responsibility for the children from the immigration
agency to another agency in the Justice Department that would set standards for
detention, release and counsel.

The immigration agency said it worked with charitable organizations and
government agencies to place children in the least restrictive settings
possible. But, like Marcos, more than 30 percent of the youths in custody are
housed in juvenile jails among violent offenders.

Commissioner James Ziglar said he intended to reduce the time that youths are
detained and to ensure that children receive health care and other services.

Under a reorganization plan, Mr. Ziglar has formed a Juvenile Affairs Office. He
has also told officials to review the standards for care in the juvenile center
that the agency uses.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 74 words


An article on Friday about increased enforcement of immigration laws by local
police departments misattributed the comment "Islamic terrorists have penetrated
every aspect of our immigration system." It was from a statement by Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies -- not by
Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which also endorsed such efforts by the police.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 26, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DRAGNET;
Pakistani Plotted to Bomb Florida Power Plants, Officials Say

BYLINE:  By JUDITH MILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 25


Federal immigration officials have arrested and are seeking to deport a young
Pakistani immigrant who they say plotted last spring to blow up power plants and
other sites in South Florida, law enforcement officials said today.

The officials said the Immigration and Naturalization Service, supported by the
police in Florida, arrested the immigrant, Imran Mandhai, 19, about a month ago
as he was returning to his apartment from an Islamic center in Hollywood, Fla.
They said Mr. Mandhai, who lives in Hollywood with his parents, conspired last
March and April with others, whom they declined to identify, to acquire guns and
explosives for a jihad against the United States.

It is unclear whether he obtained such weapons. Patricia Mancha, the immigration
service spokeswoman in Miami, confirmed that Mr. Mandhai was in custody, but she
would not say when he was arrested or whether the agency would start deportation
proceedings.

The man's father, Muhammad Farooq Mandhai, an accountant, said in an interview
over the weekend that his son had done nothing wrong. He said his son was in the
Krome Detention Center in Miami, where illegal immigrants are often held. He
described his son as an excellent student who was in his second year in computer
science at Broward Community College in Fort Lauderdale.

Law enforcement officials and associates of the son painted a more ominous
portrait of him. The local police and other law enforcement officials said Mr.
Mandhai became disenchanted with American life and was attracted to militant
Islamic politics soon after he arrived in the United States in April 1998.

Last spring, the officials said, a Federal Bureau of Investigations informer
reported that Mr. Mandhai was trying to organize a jihad in South Florida to
bomb electrical power stations and other sites. Mr. Mandhai, they said, told
some associates that he had received training from a man he identified only as
"the marine" on how to make bombs.

Officials said that last April, Mr. Mandhai discussed the importance of jihad
with seven Arab men, whom they refused to identify, at a meeting in neighboring
Miramar. That month, they said, he also tried to buy an AK-47 assault rifle at a
gun show in Fort Lauderdale for $300 but his credit card was rejected.

The officials said that one of Mr. Mandhai's targets was a large Florida Power
and Light plant near Fort Lauderdale Airport and that he had planned to bomb it
on April 27, 2001. They declined to say why the plot failed. It is not known
whether Mr. Mandhai succeeded in making a bomb or whether he even bought
components for one.

A spokesman for the F.B.I. in Miami declined to discuss the case, or to say
whether anyone else had been detained or questioned.

Bureau officials in Washington suggested that the Justice Department might still
bring charges against Mr. Mandhai or others, but officials in Florida said the
case had been turned over to the immigration agency after Justice Department
lawyers declined to prosecute Mr. Mandhai because of "technical" problems with
the case.

One official said nothing indicated that Mr. Mandhai or his purported plot was
connected to Osama bin Laden's Qaeda or the Sept. 11 attacks. The official said
investigators spent months following Mr. Mandhai's movements and associates
before his arrest.

The elder Mr. Mandhai said his family immigrated from Karachi about four years
ago.

The father and others confirmed that the son attended the Darul Uloom Islamic
Institute, in an industrial section of Hollywood.

Imran Mandhai's lawyer, Nashid Sabir, did not return calls seeking comment.

In another matter, federal law enforcement agencies continued today to search
for four Pakistani sailors who disappeared last week after being allowed ashore
in Norfolk Va., apparently in violation of visa rules.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has ordered an investigation of the incident,
which he has described as "maddening," as part of a larger inquiry into the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has been the target of intense
criticism for lapses since the Sept. 11 attacks.

Despite initial reports that one of the Pakistani sailors may have been on a
federal terrorist watch list, officials said today that none of the men were on
any criminal watch list and that there was no reason to believe they posed a
danger.

On Sunday, Mr. Ashcroft said he had ordered the inquiry into the disappearance
of the four Pakistanis, who had no visas but were apparently allowed ashore in
violation of the immigration agency's rules.

"I tell you, what's happened in the I.N.S. is enough to drive a man to drink,"
Mr. Aschroft said in an appearance on Fox News. "I believe we will find these
individuals, and I believe we will be able to correct this situation. But it's
part of the need to renovate the I.N.S."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Imran Mandhai, a Pakistani immigrant shown in the 2000 yearbook
of his South Florida high school.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: 4 Accused Of Immigration Fraud

BYLINE:  By Catherine Billey (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 84 words


Four people were arrested in Los Angeles on charges of using fake naturalization
ceremonies and a phony judge to defraud Koreans and Filipinos seeking to become
United States citizens.

The arrests come after a yearlong investigation headed by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in which each of 25 immigrants paid up to $25,000 for
speeded processing of their applications. The four were charged with mail fraud;
two also face charges of impersonating a federal judge.   Catherine Billey (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED;
Box Cutters Lead To Man's Arrest

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 1


An Egyptian carrying box cutters was arrested at Miami International Airport
after arriving on an Iberia Airlines flight from Spain, federal immigration
authorities said today.

The man, Aly Sabra Galal Abdell, 29, was detained by Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials on Friday night after a computer check of his
name revealed that he had been deported from the United States in January,
Patricia Mancha, a spokeswoman for the service, said.

Ms. Mancha said the deportation, by a federal immigration judge, came after Mr.
Abdell entered the United States late last summer.

A search of his carry-on briefcase on Friday revealed the box cutters, she said.

Federal officials have banned airline passengers from carrying small blades,
including box cutters. Box cutters were used in the Sept. 11 hijackings.

The case was presented to the United States attorney's office for prosecution,
but no charges have yet been filed, Aloyma Sanchez, a spokeswoman for the office
in Miami, said today.

The airplane, Iberia Airlines Flight 6123, landed without incident, an airline
spokeswoman said.

Mr. Abdell was being held on violations of immigration law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DEPORTATIONS;
U.S. Begins Crackdown On Muslims Who Defy Orders to Leave Country

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1415 words


Federal law enforcement agents have started to hunt down and arrest Muslim
immigrants who failed to comply with pre-Sept. 11 deportation orders, a
crackdown aimed as much at generating antiterrorism leads as enforcing orders
that have piled up over many years.

Justice Department officials said that taking aim at people from countries where
Al Qaeda has been active will give investigators the opportunity to interrogate
Muslims as they are detained on immigration violations. Civil rights advocates
said the approach unfairly singled out one religious group in the enforcement of
immigration laws.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is part of the Justice
Department, has categorized at least 320,000 foreigners of all nationalities as
"alien absconders," or people who managed to remain in the country after
immigration judges ordered them to leave.

The new crackdown concentrates on fewer than 2 percent of those with outstanding
deportation orders, or an estimated 6,000 people on the list who come from Arab
and other Muslim countries.

As of March 19, the last date for which I.N.S. statistics are available, 168
people from the absconder list had been arrested. They include failed asylum
seekers, noncitizens who committed crimes serious enough to require their
deportation, and people who overstayed their visas.

Because the immigration agency rarely pursued the people who received
deportation orders, many of those arrested have been in the country for years.
Some have children born in the United States, and in several cities, including
New York and Seattle, friends and colleagues of Muslims caught up in the latest
sweep have protested their arrests.

"No one is saying that people who have been ordered deported and are still here
should not be deported," said Hussein Ibish, communications director for the
Arab-American Anti-Discrimination Committee in Washington.

But he said that the singling out of Muslims on the deportation list should be
considered alongside the government's secrecy surrounding the continued
detention of hundreds of Muslim men since Sept. 11 and the government's mass
questioning of Muslims with visas.

"Each policy, taken on its own, can be rationalized," Mr. Ibish said. "What is
expressed in these policies, when taken together, is the belief that young Arab
or Muslim males are suspicious, potentially dangerous and of interest to the
authorities."

Late last year, in a separate effort, the Justice Department culled the names of
4,793 young Arab and Muslim men from government lists of foreigners who had
entered the United States on business, student or visitor visas. The men, when
found by the F.B.I. or the local police, were asked to submit to voluntary
questioning about any terrorists in or outside the United States.

Attorney General John Ashcroft, defending the effort, said last week that the
goal was to generate tips and to sow fear among potential terrorists hiding in
immigrant communities. He said that federal agents would ask an additional 3,000
young Muslim men with visas to submit to voluntary questioning over the next two
months.

The interview program actually improved relations between the government and
Muslims in the United States, Mr. Ashcroft said, despite the fact that 20 of the
2,200 men who agreed to meet with F.B.I. agents ended up being arrested on
immigration and other violations.

But Arab-American groups and immigrant advocates said the government's use of
immigration laws in its terrorist investigations had sowed panic in immigrant
communities.

"Communities are very scared," said Rita Zawaideh, a spokeswoman for the
Arab-American Community Coalition in Seattle. "It's not because people are
illegal. They're scared what this administration is going to do."

A number of those already arrested on old deportation orders remain in detention
in county jails around the country as they attempt to fight their expulsions,
according to immigration lawyers. Some have been interrogated about terrorism in
an attempt to develop leads; others said they have had no contact with
investigators.

When Safouh Hamoui was arrested with his wife and three children in their
suburban Seattle home at dawn on March 1, he was asked by F.B.I. agents what he
thought about Osama bin Laden and the Sept. 11 terror attacks, according to his
lawyer, Bernice Funk.

He had nothing to reveal, Ms. Funk said, adding, "They're squeaky clean."

Mr. Hamoui, a Syrian-born grocer whose application for political asylum was
turned down, remains in an I.N.S. jail with his wife and a daughter who is
burning with resentment.

"It seems we were caught up in a 9/11 mixup, but it's not fair," said the
daughter, Nadin Hamoui, 20, in a telephone interview from the jail. "Who are
they going after -- a 52-year-old man who's trying to make a living for his
family. They're using us as an example just because of the religion we
practice."

Ms. Hamoui said the family had been arrested at gunpoint and that the arresting
agents had not allowed her mother to follow religious tradition and cover her
hair before leaving the house.

"I might not have citizenship, but I'm not ignorant," said Ms. Hamoui, who was 9
when she came to the United States. "An illegal immigrant does not have to be
treated that way."

Two younger children, 15 and 12, were released into the custody of a relative.

Ms. Funk said the family should not be called absconders, since they had been
advised by their previous lawyer to remain in the country and were not hiding
from the government. She has asked a federal appeals court to reopen the
Hamouis' asylum case, arguing that the family would face torture if forced to
return to Syria.

Immigration lawyers said they feared that some of those arrested on deportation
orders might end up in jail for long periods of time, as they wait for
investigators to clear them of any link to terrorism before deporting them.
Several hundred Muslim men arrested in the weeks after the September attacks
remain in detention, with the government refusing to clarify why they are still
being held.

Chandry Saeed, a Pakistani gas station attendant who was arrested last month in
Elizabeth, N.J., for ignoring a 1994 deportation order, said he had not been
questioned about anything. "I don't see anyone to talk to me, no F.B.I., no
I.N.S., no social worker," Mr. Saeed said in a telephone call from the Hudson
County jail in New Jersey where he is being held. "I didn't even see a judge."

Immigrant advocates said that a crackdown on absconders might be overdue, but
that given the agency's well-known lapses in record keeping, the automatic
detention and interrogation of people may be too harsh.

"For one thing, we've had a several-year period where change-of-address cards
sat in shoe boxes in various I.N.S. centers," said Margie McHugh, the executive
director of the New York Immigration Forum, an advocacy group for immigrants.
"So some people don't know if they've been ordered deported or not, because
those orders can be issued in absentia."

Such complaints will be sorted out as people are arrested, said Bill
Strassberger, a spokesman for the I.N.S. in Washington.

"Still, it would be rather disingenuous for someone to say, 'I moved and the
I.N.S. didn't serve me with a notice,' " he added. "They had their day in court,
and if they knew they had immigration problems and they're trying to establish
their right to remain in the country, I would think they would have maintained
close contact with their lawyer or their bonding company."

Until the terror attacks, the immigration service did little to find people who
evaded deportation orders, focusing its efforts instead on border control. After
Sept. 11, as the agency was being flayed in Congress for its failure to keep
track of foreigners in the country, I.N.S. officials said they would enter
information about deportation orders into the national criminal database so it
would be available to local police officers.

It will take at least until this summer to finish entering the names and last
known addresses of more than 300,000 people, according to the agency.

Deportation orders can be issued whether the immigrant is in court or not. The
Executive Office for Immigration Review, which oversees immigration courts, said
that about 22 percent of such court orders were issued in absentia. In cases
where immigrants do receive the order, they can appeal to the Board of
Immigration Appeals, a process that takes at least five years, given the board's
current backlog.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 4, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Rules The Hearing For a Detainee Must Be Open

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM with SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 3


A federal judge here ruled today that an immigration hearing for a local suspect
in the government's terror sweep could not be closed to reporters.

The ruling was the first in a federal court on the Justice Department's effort
to keep such cases closed and could have ramifications for hundreds of other
immigration hearings that are pending for men of Arab descent since the Sept. 11
attacks.

"Openness is necessary for the public to maintain confidence in the value and
soundness of the government's actions, as secrecy only breeds suspicion," Judge
Nancy G. Edmunds of Federal District Court ruled in rejecting the argument that
the cases should be closed for national security reasons.

In another matter involving detainees, the inspector general's office of the
Justice Department said today that it would review the conditions at one or
possibly two jails where dozens of Muslim men have been held in virtual secrecy
after their arrests.

Officials said the review would also examine whether the detainees' civil rights
have been protected during their imprisonment, including their right to legal
representation and right to know in a timely manner what, if any, charges they
face.

Paul K. Martin, a counselor to the inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, declined to
say when the inspection would begin or how long it would take. Nor would Mr.
Martin say how many federal detainees remain in the two jails selected as
candidates for inspection -- the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn and
the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, N.J.

Civil rights groups have complained that many detainees were not allowed to
contact family members or lawyers after their arrests and that they have been
held under especially harsh conditions for people charged only with minor
immigration violations.

An investigation by Amnesty International, based on the accounts of former
prisoners and the few lawyers who have visited the jails, also found evidence
that some prisoners have been kept in solitary confinement for long periods or
were subjected to verbal or physical abuse.

As of mid-February, Amnesty International reported, 327 of the 1,200 people
detained after Sept. 11 were still in government custody.

The ruling on open immigration hearings was in the case of Rabih Haddad, a
native of Lebanon and resident of Ann Arbor, Mich., who faces an immigration
hearing on April 10. Mr. Haddad is a founder of the Global Relief Foundation, an
Islamic charity that has come under federal scrutiny for possible links to
terror groups.

Officials at the American Civil Liberties Union called the ruling an important
victory for civil rights in the first federal court decision concerning the
government's actions following Sept. 11.

"The broader significance of the decision is that the court sent a clear message
that the judiciary should not just rubber-stamp the government's Sept. 11
policies," said Lee Gelernt, senior staff lawyer for the group's Immigrants'
Rights Project.

The Justice Department may appeal the case to the United States Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, before Mr. Haddad's hearing next week.

Barbara Comstock, a spokeswoman for the department, said the ruling was being
reviewed. "No decision has been made at this time as to what our next step will
be," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 9, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
I.N.S. Proposes New Limits On the Length Of Visas

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8


Under intense pressure to regroup after embarrassing lapses involving the Sept.
11 hijackers, the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced several steps
today to gain greater control over tourists and visiting students and
businessmen.

The proposed measures would reduce the amount of time granted to most foreign
tourists, to 30 days from six months; limit most business travelers to a maximum
of six months; and penalize illegal visitors who ignore the agency's orders to
turn themselves in within 30 days.

Most changes are subject to public review, but one new rule that takes effect
immediately makes it more difficult for business travelers or tourists to switch
their visa status by enrolling in American schools.

The student visa system is rife with abuse, Bush administration officials
acknowledge. In a breakdown of procedure, the immigration service last month
issued notices of student visas to two dead Sept. 11 hijackers. The two men,
Mohammed Atta of Egypt and Marwan al-Shehhi of the United Arab Emirates, entered
the country as tourists, then began their training at a Florida flight school as
they awaited the issuance of their student visas.

James W. Ziglar, the commissioner of immigration and naturalization, said the
new rules struck "the appropriate balance between I.N.S.'s mission to ensure
that our nation's immigration laws are followed and stop illegal immigration and
our desire to welcome legitimate visitors."

Business groups reviewed the proposed changes tonight. Theresa Brown, a
spokeswoman for the United States Chamber of Commerce, expressed the hope that
they would not cripple tourism and trade.

"Allowing people to come in for business and tourism is a big chunk of our
economy," Ms. Brown said.

If the agency "raises the bar, where it's an impediment, we'll have an issue,"
she said.

Ms. Brown warned that tighter rules could add to the backlog of the immigration
service as visitors seek visa extensions. In most cases, applicants would have a
chance to make their cases for longer stays.

Effective immediately, individuals planning to study in the United States will
be able to receive student status only if they notify the agency of that
prospect before entering the country. The change is intended to give federal
authorities time to conduct security checks, officials said.

Other changes in the handling of visas include the following plans:

*An illegal immigrant who has been ordered to surrender as part of the
deportation process must do so within 30 days or give up the opportunity to
legalize his status for 10 years. Nine of every 10 illegal immigrants facing
final deportation orders fail to turn themselves in, the agency said.

*Most tourist visas would be good for 30 days, down from six months.

*Business visitors or tourists may extend their stays for up to six months if
they can show "unexpected or compelling humanitarian reason," like medical
treatment or an impending business deal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Court Weighs Opening of an Immigration Hearing

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 10


A federal appeals court in Cincinnati agreed today to a speedy review of a lower
court's decision to open to the news media an immigration hearing for a man
seized in the government's terrorism sweep.

News organizations, including The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News, are
seeking access to the hearings of the man, Rabih Haddad, the co-founder of a
Muslim charity that has come under federal scrutiny as having ties to terrorist
groups. The organizations, which have been joined in their efforts by the
American Civil Liberties Union, are also seeking transcripts and documents from
Mr. Haddad's past hearings.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a temporary stay
of the lower court's order, meaning that the government is not required at this
time to release the transcripts and documents from past hearings. The court will
probably decide next week whether to issue a lengthier stay to keep the past and
future hearings closed while the appeals process continues.

Mr. Haddad's latest immigration hearing, originally set for today, was delayed
until April 24 to give the federal courts more time to consider the matter.

Mr. Haddad, a native of Lebanon who was living in Ann Arbor, Mich., was taken
into custody in December for overstaying his visa. His case is seen as the first
indicator of how the federal courts view the Bush administration's policy of
closing immigration hearings of Arab men rounded up in the terror investigation.
The A.C.L.U. has undertaken a similar effort to open immigration hearings of
terrorism suspects in New Jersey.

On Tuesday, Judge Nancy G. Edmunds of Federal District Court in Detroit rejected
new government arguments and stood by her previous decision that the hearing of
Mr. Haddad should be open to the news media.

The government has argued that opening the hearings could undermine its efforts
to prevent attacks.

"Bits and pieces of information that may appear innocuous in isolation can be
fit into a bigger picture by terrorist groups in order to thwart the
government's efforts to investigate and prevent terrorism," Dale L. Watson, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation's executive assistant director of
counterterrorism and couterintelligence, said in an affidavit filed this week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guinean Immigrant in Custody Is a Minor, Agency Concedes

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has transferred a 17-year-old Guinean
described by his lawyers as mentally retarded to a juvenile facility after
dropping its contention that he is an adult.

The case of the Guinean, Malik Jarno, who arrived alone at Dulles International
Airport in Virginia in January 2001, has become a symbol of the difficulties
encountered by thousands of unaccompanied youths who arrive in the country and
are turned over to the immigration agency. Mr. Jarno said he had fled his
country seeking sanctuary from political persecution that had left his family
dead.

But because Mr. Jarno tried to enter the country using a false passport, he was
detained and placed in several adult jails. He spent nine months in jail before
an immigration judge conducted a hearing at which the immigration agency
declared that he should be deported.

The agency said Mr. Jarno, who speaks basic French and the West African language
Puhlar, was not a minor, despite a birth certificate that says he was born on
Jan. 7, 1985. His lawyers said the agency believed he was 19. It also disputed
the contention that he was retarded.

Immigration officials used dental and wrist X-rays to determine Mr. Jarno's age,
although many medical experts have said such methods are unreliable.

On Tuesday, the immigration agency learned from the Guinean Embassy here that
the birth certificate was authentic, a spokeswoman said. The agency moved Mr.
Jarno to its juvenile shelter in Berks County, Pa., on Wednesday from the
Rappahannock Regional Jail in Stafford, Va. He will remain there pending
immigration proceedings.

The commissioner of immigration and naturalization, James W. Ziglar, has said
the agency is reviewing its use of X-rays to determine age.

Nearly 5,000 unaccompanied children are detained by the immigration service each
year. While the agency says it works with nonprofit organizations and public
agencies to place children in the least restrictive setting possible, many are
sent to jails for months without access to critical services.

Amnesty International USA, the American Civil Liberties Union and the American
Bar Association, among others, have called for immigration officials to change
the way they handle cases of unaccompanied immigrant children. The detention of
these children has also caught the attention of lawmakers, with legislation
pending in both houses of Congress that would set standards for detention,
release and counsel.

"While Malik's transfer to a juvenile facility is a welcome development, it
simply isn't enough," said William F. Schulz, executive director of Amnesty
International. "His continued detention is still in direct contravention of
international standards for child asylum seekers."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malik Jarno has been transferred from a jail to a juvenile
shelter. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION RULES;
Plans on Foreign Students Worry College Officials

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17


A week after the Bush administration tightened access to student visas in its
fight against terrorism, higher education officials are growing concerned that
the next move could be to limit what foreign students may study once admitted to
American colleges and universities.

A presidential directive on "Combating Terrorism Through Immigration Policies,"
issued in late October, called for stricter controls on student visas, and
barring "certain international students from receiving education and training in
sensitive areas, including areas of study with direct application to the
development and use of weapons of mass destruction."

At least one of the Sept. 11 hijackers entered the country on a student visa.
Others attended flight schools, despite holding only tourist and business visas,
prompting broad calls for stricter controls on visas.

Officials at colleges and universities complain that the workings of an
interagency group that is proposing changes in rules for foreign students have
been largely hidden from the public and say they fear the government may adopt
new guidelines without their participation.

In a letter to the administration yesterday, three major associations
representing independent colleges and research universities said any controls on
foreign students should come when consulates screen visa candidates for entry to
the United States, not after they enter. The growing concern about the directive
was first reported in The Chronicle of Higher Education on Monday.

"We are concerned that the fundamentally open character of our higher education
system may make it impossible to construct a workable system for restricting
certain students already present in the country from gaining access to
information that is made available to other students," the letter said.

Vic Johnson, governmental affairs specialist at the Association of International
Educators, said he believed the White House's Office of Science and Technology
Policy, which was overseeing the interagency working group, was working hard to
balance national security with the needs of universities, which were
unaccustomed to erecting barriers to courses once students were admitted to
institutions of higher education.

"We are all fervently hoping that this thing they're going to consult with us on
isn't already a done deal," Mr. Johnson said.

Universities depend heavily on foreign students to fill postgraduate programs,
particularly in science, and these students represent an important source of
research assistance in the sciences and mathematics. In engineering, foreign
students make up half of all candidates for advanced degrees, said Jon W.
Fuller, a senior fellow at the National Association of Independent Colleges and
Universities.

Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for the Office of Homeland Security, said the
Immigration and Naturalization Service would not only screen visa applicants
more carefully, but also would monitor their courses of study once they enter
the country. If students who had said they would study liberal arts, for
example, start taking courses in nuclear engineering, "that's something that
will raise a red flag, and we'll go and take a look at them," Mr. Johndroe said.

He said the interagency group had drafted recommendations, which were sent back
to the group for further study.

But university officials say they cannot imagine such controls on campuses.
"It's very hard for us, once someone is here, to say you cannot audit organic
chemistry because it is a sensitive course," said Terry Hartle, a senior vice
president at the American Council on Education. "We don't keep guards at the
doors of classrooms to see who's getting in and who's not."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 20, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED;
Justice Dept. Ends Effort on Transcripts

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 19


The Justice Department said today that it would no longer try to block the
release of transcripts of immigration hearings for the detained founder of an
Islamic charity.

The government had sought to suppress transcripts from three hearings held since
the arrest in December of Rabih Haddad, a Lebanese citizen.

Mr. Haddad, 41, was arrested the same day that federal authorities raided
offices of Global Relief Foundation, an Islamic charity he co-founded. The
government said Global Relief aided terrorists, but it has not explained how.

Mr. Haddad is accused of overstaying his tourist visa. The government has not
publicly linked him to terrorism.

On April 3, Judge Nancy G. Edmunds of Federal District Court ruled in favor of
releasing the transcripts and opening Mr. Haddad's hearings to the public.

The government won an appeal, but lost in court on Thursday as the United States
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, said there was little
chance that releasing the information would harm the terrorism investigation.

Although the documents are being released, the Justice Department plans to
follow through on its appeal of Judge Edmunds's decision, to argue that
immigration proceedings are not required to be open.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Transcripts Offer First Look At Secret Federal Hearings

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1097 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 21


The first glimpse into the secret immigration hearings of Arab men came after
the federal government reluctantly agreed on Friday to make public partial
records of its case against a Muslim cleric.

The cleric, Rabih Haddad, 41, has been held since December on charges of
overstaying his visa. Mr. Haddad, a native of Lebanon who lived with his family
in Ann Arbor, Mich., is the chairman of the Global Relief Foundation, a Muslim
charity whose assets were frozen after it came under federal scrutiny. His case
file -- parts of which were made public as the result of a court ruling --
includes transcripts of his past immigration hearings as well as numerous
documents and exhibits, though material considered sensitive by the government
was withheld.

In making its case, the government said Mr. Haddad had been seen in places
affiliated with the Qaeda terrorist network during stays overseas in the late
1980's and early 1990's. But a detailed account of the charges, made in a
declaration by a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent, was not included in the
documents made public.

Mr. Haddad's lawyer, Ashraf Nubani, said in an interview that the purpose of Mr.
Haddad's travels, mostly to Pakistan, was to take part in relief efforts.

"At the time he was in Pakistan, Al Qaeda didn't exist," Mr. Nubani said. "It
was a bunch of people going to fight the Soviets in Afghanistan."

"He didn't do anything wrong and he never was a member of Al Qaeda," Mr. Nubani
added.

Mr. Nubani contends that Mr. Haddad is a cleric who has been harshly punished
for a minor offense. The Global Relief Foundation has denied it has ties to
terrorist organizations and has sued several news media organizations for
defamation, including The New York Times Company. The group has also brought a
civil suit against the government.

Many of the documents that were made public reveal legal skirmishing over issues
that offer no clear evidence of serious wrongdoing.

Mark Corallo, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said the most conclusive
evidence had been withheld to protect "the integrity of the investigation and
our ongoing efforts in the war against terrorism."

Mr. Corallo said that there was more evidence beyond the F.B.I. declaration, but
that this evidence would probably remain secret as well.

"If it becomes necessary to enter other evidence in the immigration hearing, we
will ask the court to close the hearing and enter evidence without public
disclosure," he said.

Mr. Haddad, born to Lebanese Christian parents, later converted to Islam and
started visiting the United States frequently in 1980, when he began attending
the University of Nebraska.

He was taken into custody at his apartment in Ann Arbor on Dec. 14 by
immigration agents, who confiscated a shotgun that he said he used for hunting
birds. Prosecutors quizzed him on such subjects as why he had not taken a safety
course. (He said he did not think one was required when he bought it.)

In the process of arresting Mr. Haddad, an agent asked him to produce his
passport, which he retrieved from a briefcase. The agent saw four to six stacks
of dollar bills, each about two to three inches high. Prosecutors repeatedly
questioned Mr. Haddad about how he earned his living. Mr. Haddad said he was not
employed in the traditional sense but received an income from donations he
collected during visits to mosques and Islamic centers around the country. He
said he also received money from his wife's family.

"He's a fund-raiser," Mr. Nubani said. "Muslims pay in the mosque and other
places with dollar bills. He wasn't hiding anything."

Prosecutors further pressed Mr. Haddad about why he claimed on a rental
application form that he was employed and earned a salary from the Global Relief
Foundation of just under $30,000. He replied that he made roughly that amount of
money in donations but he did not think a landlord would take in someone whose
income consisted of charitable donations. Asked by his own lawyer if he
regretted making the assertion, he said, "More so than you can imagine now,
yes."

Until March, Mr. Haddad was in solitary confinement at the Metro Correctional
Center in Chicago and granted minimal contact with his wife and four children.
Among the documents made public were several stacks of letters of support on his
behalf. After a letter-writing campaign and a visit from Representative John
Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, Mr. Haddad was moved into the general
population.

Mr. Haddad's immigration file became public after several Michigan newspapers,
along with Mr. Conyers, sued the government to force them to open the hearings.
They have been represented by, among others, the American Civil Liberties Union.
The suit, and similar ones filed by news media organizations in New Jersey, pit
First Amendment rights against a law passed after the Sept. 11 attacks that
permits the secret detention of immigrants. But Mr. Haddad's case is the first
in which the federal courts have ruled.

Though the government released transcripts of Mr. Haddad's past hearings, it
continues to seek to close his future hearings. The United States Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which denied the government's request to suppress
the transcripts, is currently considering the case. It has said, in a decision
on the transcripts by a three-judge panel, that there is only a "slim
likelihood" it will reverse a lower court's ruling to open the hearings.

Mr. Haddad's next immigration hearing is set for Wednesday, but the government
could seek to delay it as the federal appeals process proceeds.

Much of the government's argument in court has been that opening Mr. Haddad's
hearing would present a danger to national security. But the government appeared
to back away from that position Friday.

"We have concluded, in regard to the single individual in this case, that the
release of past transcripts of the immigration proceedings, as required by court
order, will not cause irreparable harm to the national security," Jay Stephens,
the associate United States attorney general, said in a statement. He said the
government was entitled to keep some proceedings secret and would do so.

Lee Gelernt, an A.C.L.U. lawyer, said his group had never pressed for the
hearings to be fully open, just for them not to be fully closed.

"In court, the government has said it must conduct every minute of every hearing
in secret," Mr. Gelernt said, "but now acknowledges that it is possible to
distinguish between especially sensitive and nonsensitive material without a
risk of irreparable harm to the American public."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rabih Haddad, a Muslim cleric, has been held since December on
charges of overstaying his visa. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 27, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farewell to the I.N.S.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 384 words


In an expression of bipartisan exasperation, the House of Representatives voted
405 to 9 on Thursday to dismantle the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The Senate is expected to deliver the coup de grace soon. Congress has rightly
concluded that the immigration agency's storied incompetence can no longer be
tolerated at a time of growing concerns about border security and about our open
society's ability to keep out terrorists.

There are many reasons to celebrate the demise of the old I.N.S., but building
an effective new system will not be easy. The House bill would establish two
separate immigration agencies, both still within the Justice Department. One
would handle immigration services like citizenship applications; the other would
protect the nation's borders and enforce the immigration laws. The two bureaus
would report to a new associate attorney general for immigration affairs, but
that office would have no direct budgetary or personnel authority over the two
agencies.

A preferable Senate alternative proposed by Edward Kennedy and Sam Brownback
would also break the I.N.S. into two bureaus, but place them within a new
organization similar to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The director, who
would report directly to the attorney general, would control the agency's budget
and staff.

The White House should work to ensure that the final legislation looks more like
the Senate's version, and must determine how best to coordinate the work of the
I.N.S. with the patchwork of other federal agencies involved in border security.
Absent so far in the debate has been a convincing explanation of why the
immigration agency should stay within Justice, where it is a neglected
stepchild. Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, reportedly favored a
bolder plan to create a new border security agency that would pull together the
I.N.S., the Customs Service and the Coast Guard.

The hurdles entailed in reinventing the I.N.S. will be enormous, and the Bush
administration must ensure that the agency's vital work is not neglected during
the transition. Congress recently approved useful border security legislation
that would create a monitoring system for foreign students and establish an
intelligence database accessible to both the State Department and the I.N.S.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 27, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DETAINEES;
Dispute That Prevented New Jersey Deportations Is Resolved

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 641 words


Civil rights lawyers and the Justice Department yesterday settled a dispute over
the deportation of foreign prisoners in New Jersey that had disrupted
immigration proceedings at two county jails for nearly a week.

The agreement re-establishes the routine for immigrant detainees at the Passaic
County and Hudson County Jails, permitting them to attend hearings, post bond
and leave the country either voluntarily or in accordance with deportation
orders.

Last week, the Immigration and Naturalization Service abruptly canceled hearings
and deportation proceedings for prisoners in the two jails, including those for
a number of people who were arrested after Sept. 11 and were desperate to leave
the United States after spending up to six months in detention.

Immigration officials said they had been acting in accordance with a state
appeals court ruling on April 19 that said detainees should not be moved out of
the jails without first giving their consent. Lawyers for many of the detainees
said that the immigration service had grossly misinterpreted the court's order
by blocking the departure of even those who volunteered to leave for their home
countries.

The court order stemmed from a lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties
Union of New Jersey that seeks to force the government to release the names of
Islamic men arrested in the law enforcement sweep after Sept. 11 and detained
for months, most on minor immigration charges.

Hundreds of the 1,200 men arrested ended up in the two New Jersey jails, which
rent space to the I.N.S., although agency officials refused to say how many were
still there.

A New Jersey Superior Court judge ordered the government to release information
about the detainees, but the Justice Department appealed the decision and
received a stay. The disruption in the norm at the two jails resulted from a
dispute over the meaning of the stay.

The joint statement by lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union of New
Jersey and the Justice Department, representing the immigration service, said
the two sides were able to resolve most of their differences over the court
order's meaning.

The dispute had thrown many immigration proceedings in New Jersey into chaos.
Detainees were prevented from attending their hearings, lawyers said. A group of
illegal immigrants from Egypt who were at Kennedy International Airport waiting
for their flight home were returned to jail when the immigration service
canceled their deportation.

Some of the people in the jails have been in federal custody since last fall,
waiting for the Justice Department to clear them of any connection to terrorism
and then waiting for the I.N.S. to allow them to leave. Generally, the only
charge ever brought was for overstaying their tourist visas, an immigration
violation that previously rarely had resulted in detention.

One of those was Anser Mahmood, a Pakistani truck driver who was living with his
family in Bayonne, N.J., when he was arrested on Oct. 3 and charged with
overstaying his tourist visa. He said he spent four months in isolation in the
Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn.

In February, Mr. Mahmood joined the general prisoner population in the prison,
he said, and spent another two months there before being sent to the Passaic
County Jail, where he was told he would be deported.

During his detention, Mr. Mahmood said, he was never interviewed by the F.B.I.
or questioned by any other agency about terrorism.

"This thing that happened on Sept. 11 made me angry," said Mr. Mahmood, who said
he was anxious to leave the United States but harbored no ill will toward
Americans. "And this thing that happened to me, I was very relaxed the first few
days, because I knew they were searching for the people responsible. I thought
it would all be over in a few days and they were going to release me."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 1, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
Their Right? To Remain Silenced

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


The immigration clerk was standing behind thick glass, but she sounded as if she
were speaking from the other side of the Looking Glass: "If I did know, I
couldn't tell you. The people who know won't tell you."

This is a window into the immigration court system where -- excuse the
metaphoric excess -- the drapes have been drawn as never before.

Since Sept. 11, when the wilted immigration enforcement apparatus sprang to
life, secrecy has become the order of business. The government has refused to
release the names of people taken into detention for immigration violations. And
court proceedings for detainees labeled "special interest" have been closed to
the public -- hence the clerk's artful dodge when asked if any were scheduled on
a recent day.

The secrecy grows from the government's concern for security against terrorism.
But it appears to be keeping secrets about people with no known connection to
terrorism, creating a sense of dark possibilities where none may exist. The
hush-hush policy has become the story of the boy who whispered wolf.

One East Coast immigration judge, who asked that his name remain secret, said
the secret cases were "just regular cases" and that he had heard no evidence of
terrorism at the hearings. "I'm sure there are plenty of terrorists," he said.
"I haven't see any." He said the people he had seen "were at the wrong place at
the wrong time."

Malek Zeidan was one of them. A Syrian who drives an ice cream truck, he was
arrested Feb. 1 for overstaying his visa by 14 years. His lawyer, Regis
Fernandez, said immigration agents found Mr. Zeidan while looking for a former
roommate in a marriage fraud case. Overstaying a visa was not an offense
aggressively enforced before Sept. 11. So when agents asked Mr. Zeidan about his
violation, according to a relative, he told them: "I came to the country. I
liked it like everyone else and I stayed."

He was held for about 40 days, and at his court hearings, his cousin, Ali Zidan,
came to support him. "They told me I had to leave," Ali Zidan said. "They said
it's a special case. I said what's so special? He sells ice cream, he works in a
gas station."

At the hearing, according to Mr. Fernandez, the judge cleared the court of
everyone but the lawyers and Mr. Zeidan. The prosecutor told the judge that Mr.
Zeidan was the subject of an investigation related to Sept. 11. "They say that
about everyone," Mr. Fernandez said. "That's a long way of saying he's Arab."

Ultimately, Mr. Zeidan was freed on bail, and is facing deportation. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service wouldn't comment. But, as Mr. Fernandez
said, the secrecy "creates a cloud of suspicion over him."

CIVIL liberties groups are pressing the secrecy issues in court in New Jersey,
where hundreds of I.N.S. detainees are held in county jails here. Deborah
Jacobs, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of New
Jersey, said without knowing whom the government has detained, assuring that
they are represented by lawyers is difficult, as is monitoring the judicial
process. She said it reflected the government's attitude that "we're going to do
everything we can to prevent another attack and even things that won't prevent
another attack."

The government has taken a "less information the better" approach. The fear is
that even seemingly innocuous information could one day, somehow, become
important to either the United States, or its enemies. A recent Justice
Department regulation on controlling information about detainees said: "What may
seem trivial to the uninformed, may appear of great moment to one who has a
broad view of the scene."

It is the bureaucratic version of "Hey, you never know."

Ronald K. Chen, an associate dean at Rutgers School of Law in Newark, points out
that "there's a question of overprotection." If the government hints that danger
is everywhere at all times, how are we to know the real threats?

The threat of terrorism is an immediate issue at the immigration court here,
which happens to be housed in a building named for Peter W. Rodino, the former
congressman who headed the House impeachment committee during Watergate. And he
knows something about the enduring threat of government secrecy, which is why he
once said, "The real security of this nation lies in the integrity of its
institutions and the informed confidence of its people."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 8, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Local Police Should Not Do an I.N.S. Job

BYLINE:  By James M. Lindsay and Audrey Singer;  James M. Lindsay is a senior
fellow and Audrey Singer is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration is moving toward giving state and local police an
expanded role in enforcing the nation's immigration laws. Although this move is
being justified as part of the war on terrorism, it will do little to stop
terrorists and will frighten immigrant communities.

The administration's interest in involving state and local police in enforcing
immigration laws represents a shift in strategy. All 19 Sept. 11 hijackers
entered the United States legally as tourists or students. Washington is looking
for ways to keep terrorists out. The border security bill the Senate passed last
month helps address the problem. Among other things, it would create a
comprehensive terrorist database that officials can consult when granting visas.

But prevention can fail; thus the administration's interest in enlisting state
and local police. Now the responsibility for enforcing immigration law rests
exclusively with the Justice Department. State and local police generally cannot
arrest people solely for being in this country illegally. Police departments
have liked this division of labor, since enforcing immigration laws could take
time away from more pressing crime-fighting duties and harm their relations with
immigrants.

In 1996, Congress authorized the attorney general to make agreements with state
and local governments permitting them to enforce immigration laws. But before
Sept. 11, lack of state and local interest, coupled with opposition by
pro-immigrant and business groups, kept agreements from being struck.

The Bush administration now wants to put the 1996 law to work. It has found an
eager partner in Florida, which hopes to conclude an agreement soon. The State
Legislature in South Carolina is considering a bill that would enable it to
follow Florida's lead. Some in the administration want to go even further. The
Justice Department has drafted an opinion that argues state and local
authorities already have the power to arrest people for violating immigration
laws. If the White House accepts this interpretation -- which would reverse both
customary practice and a Justice Department legal opinion from 1996 that said
local authorities should not make "arrests for civil violations of immigration
law" -- the nation's 600,000-plus local police would potentially be free to
arrest illegal immigrants at will.

Proponents say local police need this authority because the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which the Justice Department oversees, does not have
enough agents to root out terrorists. A common fear is that someday -- it has
not happened yet -- local police might be forced to let illegal immigrants they
suspect of terrorism go because the I.N.S., even after the restructuring being
debated now in Congress, will be too shorthanded to come get them.

But it is doubtful that turning state and local police loose on illegal
immigrants will do much to stop terrorism. An estimated eight million people
live in the United States illegally; the number who intend harm is small. State
and local police probably would not have prevented Sept. 11 even if they had
been empowered to enforce immigration laws. The 19 hijackers all entered the
United States legally, and 17 of them still had valid visas on Sept. 11.

With so few visa-violating terrorists to find, the temptation to target ordinary
illegal immigrants would be great. That would do more harm than good. Arresting
otherwise law-abiding people will divert police resources away from other
duties. Should the police begin arresting every suspected illegal immigrant they
detain at a traffic stop, they would overwhelm the immigration system.

There is also a grave risk of racial profiling and civil rights abuses, not just
against noncitizens but also against citizens deemed not to look "American."
Such practices would undercut the progress police have made around the country
to earn trust within immigrant communities. Last fall some local officials
objected on just these grounds to the Justice Department's efforts to question
thousands of Arab-Americans as part of the early response to Sept. 11. Police
have learned that people worried about their immigration status will shun cops,
not cooperate with them. They are also reluctant to ask for police protection
when they truly need it.

The proposed change in policy would intensify the divide between immigrants --
most of whom are here legally -- and everyone else at precisely the moment when
the country should be coming together.

Rewriting immigration enforcement policy isn't needed, anyway, to fight
terrorism. Hiring more I.N.S. agents, which the Senate border security bill
does, sufficiently addresses fears that police might one day find themselves
forced to let Qaeda operatives go. That increase in staffing would preserve the
traditional -- and sensible -- division of labor between federal and state and
local authorities on immigration. It would also ensure that our law enforcement
efforts remain targeted where they belong: on terrorists and not immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 9, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill on Border Security and Immigration Passes in House

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 915 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 8


The House overwhelmingly approved a bill today to increase the security of the
nation's borders and to toughen enforcement of immigration laws, clearing the
measure for President Bush, who has said he will sign it.

The vote was 411 to 0, with 2 House members voting present. The Senate passed
the bill 97 to 0 on April 18.

House members said the bill would close gaps in security revealed by last year's
terrorist attacks.

"Since Sept. 11, we have learned how deeply vulnerable our immigration system is
to exploitation by aliens who wish to harm Americans," said Representative F.
James Sensenbrenner Jr., the Wisconsin Republican who is chairman of the
Judiciary Committee and chief sponsor of the bill.

The legislation would increase the number of immigration inspectors and
investigators, require universities to keep better track of foreign students and
heighten scrutiny of visa applications from countries listed as sponsors of
terrorism.

Under the bill, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence
Agency would have to share more information with the State Department, which
issues visas. The government will meld certain databases of federal law
enforcement and intelligence agencies, to help in screening visa applicants and
foreigners entering the United States.

The American Civil Liberties Union said the new storehouse of information must
not be used as the basis for a national identification system. In monitoring
foreign visitors, it said, the government must not compromise the privacy rights
of Americans or harass people who "look foreign" or are members of racial
minorities.

Civil liberties advocates were alarmed at some early proposals, including one
that might have required noncitizens to carry identification documents, but
these ideas were dropped after bipartisan negotiations.

Under the bill, a presidential commission will examine use of the electronic
data system to see if it infringes on privacy rights.

Angela M. Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy
group for immigrants, and Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council
of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group, said their organizations supported the
bill in its final form.

The federal government would have to issue machine-readable, tamper-resistant
visas and travel documents imprinted with identifiers like fingerprints or
retina scans.

The hijackers responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks entered the United States on
tourist, student and business visas. Hani Hanjour, identified as the pilot who
flew a jet into the Pentagon, came here to study English in California but never
showed up for classes. Two men who crashed jetliners into the World Trade
Center, Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, entered the United States on tourist
visas, then studied at a Florida flight school while they waited for student
visas.

Under the bill, the Justice Department must establish an electronic system to
track the acceptance of foreign students by American schools, the issuance of
visas to them, their admission to this country and their enrollment in schools
here. Schools must notify the government if foreign students drop out or do not
enroll.

Representative George W. Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania and chairman of the
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said: "No longer shall criminals come to
our colleges and thwart our immigration laws by hiding in the halls of learning.
We will know what college they attend. We will know when they leave. Terrorists
like Mohamed Atta will be caught when they try to convert our education system
into a terrorist hideout."

Victor C. Johnson, a lobbyist at the Association of International Educators,
which represents foreign student advisers, said his group supported the bill.

"It strikes an appropriate balance, tightening visa controls and student
monitoring while maintaining our openness to foreign students and scholars," Mr.
Johnson said.

The border security bill is the latest legislative response to the events of
Sept. 11. Congress has provided billions of dollars of emergency aid to New
York. In October, President Bush signed an antiterrorism bill that gave law
enforcement agencies vast new powers to conduct surveillance, detain suspects
and attack money laundering. In November, he signed a major aviation security
bill. House and Senate negotiators are working on a bioterrorism bill, passed in
different forms by the two chambers.

Despite the lopsided votes on the border security bill, Congress had difficulty
deciding how much to tighten immigration policy.

In March, just before Mr. Bush visited Mexico, the House approved a proposal
that would have made it easier for thousands of Mexicans and other illegal
immigrants to obtain permanent resident visas, or green cards. This provision
was not in the bill passed today. But lawmakers, eager to court Hispanic voters,
said it was likely to be approved as a separate measure later in this election
year.

A similar provision, enacted in 2000, expired in April 2001. On Thursday, the
Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, plans to
introduce a bill to reauthorize the program, widely known by its legal citation,
Section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, introduced a similar bill last
year. The 30 co-sponsors span the political spectrum from Senator Jesse Helms,
Republican of North Carolina, to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Florida, a Limbo for Haitians Only

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY with ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1060 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 12


Hedwiche Jeanty sleeps on a cot next to strangers, wears the same clothes for up
to five days and, he says, eats food that is often stale off plates that are
never quite clean. Most days, he just sits, worrying about the future.

Mr. Jeanty's life might not seem surprising for a man from Haiti, an
impoverished country in perpetual political turmoil. But he is living in those
conditions in Miami.

Mr. Jeanty and nearly 300 other Haitians seeking political asylum in the United
States have been held in detention centers for more than five months, under a
Bush administration directive that does not apply to refugees of any other
nationality.

"I haven't committed any crime in the United States," said Mr. Jeanty, 22. "I'm
feeling humiliated." Speaking by phone from the Krome detention center, he said
he had fled Haiti last December to escape persecution for denouncing the
government.

The order from the Immigration and Naturalization Service requires officials
here to detain Haitian refugees with plausible asylum claims. All others are
sent back to Haiti. The order applies only in South Florida and is a departure
from a policy that favors releasing refugees to relatives or sponsors while they
pursue asylum claims in immigration court.

The agency says the new policy is necessary to deter thousands of Haitians from
taking to sea in rickety rafts and flooding South Florida, or dying en route.

But the office of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees says this
approach violates international norms of refugee law. Several civil rights
advocates and a growing group of lawmakers from both parties say the policy is
discriminatory.

A suit filed on March 15 in federal district court here seeks to force the
government to release the detained Haitians and to stop considering race and
nationality when adjudicating cases. Immigrant rights groups plan to hold a
demonstration in Miami on May 20, when President Bush visits for Cuban
Independence Day.

Representative Carrie P. Meek, a Florida Democrat with one of the largest
Haitian constituencies in the country, says the new order also shields Gov. Jeb
Bush from an influx of Haitian refugees in an election year. Governor Bush, the
president's brother, has denied any connection between his office and the new
policy, and recently said the order should be rescinded.

"Haitian refugees should not be treated any different from refugees of other
countries," said Katie Muniz, a spokeswoman for Governor Bush. "If the refugees
prove to the I.N.S. that they have a well-founded fear of persecution, they
should not be detained."

The United States has a history of creating immigration policies that favor one
nationality over another. Since 1966, the Cuban Adjustment Act has allowed Cuban
immigrants to apply for permanent residence. The policy was modified in 1995
after a flood of refugees reached the United States and now dictates that Cubans
picked up at sea be sent back, and those who make it ashore be allowed to stay.
No other class of refugees receives such a preference.

The new policy took effect on Dec. 14, 11 days after the Coast Guard rescued 167
Haitians from a boat off Florida. They were taken to Miami, where they were
permitted to apply for asylum.

At the time, the number of Haitians intercepted at sea was rising steadily. The
Coast Guard picked up 350 last November alone, compared with 96 in the three
previous months combined.

The influx was fed by rumors spreading in Haiti that the United States needed
workers to help rebuild the World Trade Center, and that the Coast Guard was no
longer stopping boats from landing in Florida, said Cmdr. Christopher B. Carter,
the chief of the Coast Guard's migrant interdiction division.

After consulting officials from the White House, the State and Justice
departments and the Coast Guard, the immigration service's acting deputy
commissioner, Peter Michael Becraft, ordered agents in South Florida to detain
all Haitian refugees, even those arriving at airports.

The order had its intended effect, at least initially. The Coast Guard picked up
no Haitians in January and February, but 427 in March and April. Most were sent
back to Haiti. Only 11 Haitians have reached Florida this year by boat, Coast
Guard officials said.

Justice Department officials who oversee the immigration service declined to
comment, as did the White House, citing the lawsuit. But in an affidavit, Mr.
Becraft argued that the new directive was not a formal policy change but merely
an effort to "adjust its parole criteria" that subjected Haitians to a more
restrictive "case-by-case review."

About 270 Haitian men, women and children are being detained. Officials say that
since December, 36 have been released for humanitarian reasons, including
pregnant women and unaccompanied minors.

The treatment of the refugees has drawn sharp criticism from the Congressional
Black Caucus and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Two Republican House members from Miami, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln
Diaz-Balart, also oppose the policy.

Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin, president of Barry University in Miami Shores, has
offered to have the refugees paroled to the care of the university. "What
worries me is that because they're in a maximum-security jail, they are treated
as criminals when they are not," said Ms. O'Laughlin, who two years ago
intervened in the case of the young Cuban refugee Elian Gonzalez.

The strains of detention are wearing heavily on many of the refugees.

Laurence St. Pierre, 27, is being detained at Turner Guilford Knight Detention
Center, a maximum-security jail here. In a shaky voice, she said that what
troubled her most, besides the food, the lack of information about her
immigration status and an inadequate supply of things like shampoo and sanitary
napkins, was that no one seemed to make a distinction between her and the
criminals with whom she is housed.

"Instead of getting better, everything has gotten worse for us here," Ms. St.
Pierre said in Creole, through an interpreter.

Ms. St. Pierre, who fled for Miami on a boat last December, said she wavered
between being angry and sad about how Haitian detainees are treated compared
with those from other countries. "I see many women from other countries arrive
here and be released after a few days. I wonder why Haitian women are not being
released?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the 167 Haitian refugees who were rescued from a boat
off Florida by the Coast Guard last December. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Open Hearings Sought for Terror Detainees

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 245 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 13


Even a case-by-case process of determining whether immigration hearings for
post-Sept. 11 detainees should be kept secret could jeopardize the terrorism
investigation, lawyers for the federal government argued today as they battled a
lawsuit over whether to open the hearings to the press.

The American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey sued the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Federal District Court here in March on behalf of
several New Jersey newspapers, seeking to overturn a blanket order that hearings
for all so-called special interest cases be held in secret.

The order was issued Sept. 21 by the nation's top immigration judge, Michael J.
Creppy. It involves an unknown number of mainly Arab immigrants who were
detained -- many of them in New Jersey jails -- after Sept. 11.

The government has invoked national security to close the hearings. Lawyers for
the newspapers concede that some hearings may involve truly sensitive material,
but say the government should have to demonstrate that case by case.

Judge John W. Bissell did not say at the close of today's one-day hearing when
he would rule.

. Michael Lindemann, a deputy attorney general for immigration, said today that
even preliminary arguments on whether to open a hearing would reveal the extent
of investigators' knowledge. But lawyers for the newspapers, including The New
Jersey Law Journal in Newark and The Herald News of West Paterson, said Judge
Creppy's order was too broad.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Rejects Lawsuit Filed For Haitians

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 18


A federal judge has rejected a lawsuit challenging a decision by the Bush
administration to indefinitely jail Haitians who apply for political asylum
after they have been caught trying to enter the United States illegally.

The judge, Joan A. Lenard of United States District Court, on Friday accepted
the Justice Department argument that immigration "strikes at the heart of a
nation's sovereignty," and deferred to the executive branch.

Immigration lawyers sued over a decision in December to keep Haitian asylum
seekers behind bars until their cases were decided. The decision was intended to
discourage a mass exodus from Haiti, a nation with political upheaval and
poverty.

As a result, Haitians are being treated differently than asylum seekers from
other countries, who are generally freed until their asylum requests are
decided. Immigration lawyers contended the policy change was unconstitutional
and discriminatory.

Judge Lenard, who dismissed the case without a hearing, concluded that the
courts were not the right place for jailed Haitians to seek help.

"Courts generally must defer to the laws established by Congress and
administered by the executive branch of government," she wrote.

Cheryl Little of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, one of the lawyers
representing detainees, called the decision "deeply disappointing."

"We can't always count on officials in Washington to do the right thing," Ms.
Little said, "and that's why we turn to the courts."

About 250 Haitians have been detained under the policy, Ms. Little said.

A call to the Justice Department for comment was not returned. Department
lawyers disclosed the change in policy, which immigration lawyers had suspected,
only after the lawsuit was filed in March.

As of Dec. 14, 11 days after a ship carrying 187 Haitians ran aground off Miami,
the immigration service directed its South Florida offices to change a policy of
releasing asylum-seekers who can show a credible fear of persecution in their
homeland. Haitians with such claims are now detained, and all others are sent
back to Haiti.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reform That Leads to Chaos

BYLINE:  By Peter H. Schuck; Peter H. Schuck is a professor at Yale Law School
and author of the forthcoming "Diversity in America: Keeping Government at a
Safe Distance."

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 852 words


With the possible exception of the I.R.S., the Immigration and Naturalization
Service is the least popular agency in the federal government. Congress is so
fed up with I.N.S. blunders that it is near a bipartisan agreement on a law
dividing the immigration service into separate divisions for services and
enforcement. The Bush administration, recognizing this political juggernaut,
also favors this plan.

But recent disclosures about the response of the F.B.I. and I.N.S. to terrorist
threats show the need for more coordination within and among federal agencies,
not less. Dividing the I.N.S. into two parts won't solve the agency's problems,
and it won't make the immigration system better able to deal with the demands
imposed on it by the war on terrorism. Any meaningful reform must begin with a
careful reconsideration of the nation's immigration policy.

Reorganization has been proposed by blue-ribbon commissions since at least 1981
on the theory that the same agency that provides visas and other benefits for
"good" immigrants should not be responsible for deporting "bad" ones. Although
this seems plausible, separation will create new problems and aggravate old
ones.

Benefits and sanctions are -- and should be -- closely linked. Many illegal
aliens become legal immigrants; last year, for example, the I.N.S. issued more
than 200,000 permanent visas -- over 20 percent of the total -- to previously
illegal aliens. Moreover, reorganization invariably disrupts even well-run
agencies by creating new lines of authority and operating routines. One can only
imagine what it will do to the chaotic I.N.S.

The agency has few allies. But dividing its functions will not enhance support
for the I.N.S.; the real problem is how it defines and performs its mission. As
it is, many immigrants fear the agency's broad detention and deportation powers,
while others dismiss it as a paper tiger that actually deports relatively few
illegal aliens who make it inside the border. Human-rights groups denounce its
frequent mistreatment of aliens. Employers scorn the agency's glacial pace and
burdensome paperwork. Congress resents the agency's continued failures,
especially after quadrupling its budget in the last decade. Federal judges,
barred by a 1996 reform law from reviewing many important I.N.S. decisions, fume
that the orders they can issue often have little effect. The current
Congressional reform fails to address these issues.

Meanwhile, the failures of immigration policy are only getting worse. There are
an estimated eight million to nine million illegal aliens in the United States
today, almost twice as many as in 1986, when Congress adopted employer sanctions
and a broad amnesty program. Many of these illegal aliens also commit crimes
serious enough to warrant deportation, and the I.N.S. is under Congressional
pressure to deport them. But in 2001, a record year for deporting criminal
aliens, the I.N.S. failed to expel most of those eligible for deportation (even
as it unfairly deported some who committed minor legal infractions many years
ago). At the same time, the I.N.S. had in custody almost 5,000 unaccompanied
minors, whose education and well-being it could not ensure.

Among those immigrants eligible for visas, citizenship or other benefits, a
backlog of 4.9 million applications has accumulated. Red tape over visas turns
honest workers and employers into lawbreakers and creates huge economic costs.
And the relative education and job skills of legal immigrants may be declining,
making their success here less likely.

I.N.S. incompetence has wasted large investments in computer technology; the
agency cannot track the 700,000 foreign students in the United States, much less
nonstudents who overstay their visas. Yet despite administrative failures -- its
notice of approval of pilot training for Mohamed Atta, mailed months after Sept.
11, is only the most notorious -- Congress keeps adding to the agency's
responsibilities in antiterrorism and other areas.

Instead of simply reorganizing the bureaucracy, Congress needs to consider more
imaginative -- and less extreme -- remedies for these chronic problems. It could
amend the 1996 law to restore the possibility of humanitarian waivers from
deportation for aliens with close family ties to citizens. The I.N.S. could use
community supervision to reduce unnecessary detentions. The employer sanctions
law could be strengthened with stiffer penalties and private enforcement. More
secure identity documents, sensitive to privacy concerns, could be developed. A
point system like those used in Canada and Australia, which admit immigrants
based on their skills, language ability, experience and family ties, could yield
more productive and easily assimilated immigrants.

Reorganizing the I.N.S. before rethinking immigration policy in light of past
failures and new challenges will not produce a more efficient or effective
agency. Instead, it will deflect public attention from the difficult political
choices that Congress must make but would rather avoid. Could it be that
distraction is the whole point of this exercise?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Amy Unikewicz and Miriam Bossard/Jelly Associates)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brave New World: My ID, Your ID

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 140 words


To the Editor:

Re "Foreigners Obtain Social Security ID With Fake Papers" (front page, May 20):

Twenty years ago, I prosecuted people who sold green cards and Social Security
cards to aliens.

Now it's front-page news. Today employers can easily verify the validity of a
Social Security card by calling an 800 number (1-800-772-6270).

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has a central index system. It
refuses to let Social Security use this system to verify an alien's status for
employment purposes. Why can't the I.N.S. inaugurate an 800 line for the Social
Security Administration to verify immigration status? Isn't one 9/11 enough?

JO ANNE C. ADLERSTEIN
Newark, May 20, 2002

The writer, a former assistant United States attorney for the District of New
Jersey, is head of the Immigration Group at the law firm of Proskauer Rose.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nick Dewar)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judges Are Told To Aid Children Who Immigrate To U.S. Alone

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5


The head of the American Bar Association said today that he would urge
immigration judges to take a more active role in ensuring that children who
arrive in the United States without any relative or guardian get appropriate
legal protection.

"We need changes in the way we handle unaccompanied children who arrive in this
country," Robert E. Hirshon, the president of the A.B.A., said in an statement
today. "Many of them do not speak English and are not familiar with their rights
under U.S. law, yet they are placed in harsh detention conditions, and are faced
with the stressful and confusing ordeal of navigating our complex immigration
system."

Mr. Hirshon, who is scheduled to speak at the annual conference of immigration
judges in San Juan, P.R., on Thursday said he would ask the judges to be more
assertive in dealing with federal immigration authorities. Nearly 5,000
unaccompanied children are detained by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service each year.

While the immigration service says it works with nonprofit organizations and
public agencies to place children in the least restrictive setting possible,
many are sent to jails for months at a time without access to translators,
education or medical care.

In addition, as many as 80 percent of unaccompanied juveniles appear in court
without a lawyer or guardian, legal advocates say. That often means added time
in detention, because immigration judges are reluctant to order removal of
children who do not have counsel.

Mr. Hirshon said immigration laws did not allow for the appointment of counsel
for immigrants at the government's expense. Private law firms have donated
millions of dollars in legal services for these children.

Amnesty International, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights and the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children,
among others, have called for immigration officials to change the way they
handle cases of unaccompanied immigrant children.

In remarks prepared for the judges' conference, Mr. Hirshon says "immigration
judges can play a unique role in ensuring that these young children get a full
measure of justice in their proceedings."

He said judges should establish formal juvenile dockets for unaccompanied
immigrant children. The docket could consolidate the cases for a certain day
with a designated, and perhaps rotating, judge.

Mr. Hirshon sent Congress a copy of his comments.

Judges should also consider, he said, creating child-friendly techniques for
court proceedings, like conducting tours of the courtroom before hearings to
help put children at ease, seating judges at the same level as children and
perhaps having them dress casually rather than in robes.

Both houses of Congress are considering bills that would transfer responsibility
for the children from the immigration service to another agency within the
Justice Department, which would set standards for detention, release and
counsel.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Preserving Liberty and Security;
Handling Foreign Visitors

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 535 words


This need to balance tolerance and vigilance applies also to immigration policy.
It is important that the country police its borders and enforce its immigration
laws in a way that is both fair and effective. Unfortunately Mr. Ashcroft
announced a plan yesterday that seems to lead in the wrong direction. He
proposed to fingerprint tens of thousands of visitors from Muslim and Middle
Eastern countries as they enter the United States. His plan would also require
them to register with the government if they stay 30 days or longer. This is a
poorly conceived and inadequate substitute for the serious overhaul of the
immigration system that should be among Washington's most urgent priorities.

The United States can no longer afford a broken immigration system. There are
four obvious points of weakness. Applicants are insufficiently screened when
they apply for a visa. They are not carefully monitored while they are here to
make sure they are living up to the purposes they claimed when they applied for
the visa. They are allowed to overstay visas without penalty, as was the case
with three of the Sept. 11 hijackers. And they depart largely unnoticed.

Congress recently passed legislation to address these weaknesses, but past
Congressional mandates have paid few dividends. Border security remains porous,
and there has been little effort, despite repeated promises, to provide consular
officials around the world who make the crucial rulings on visa applications
with access to law enforcement and intelligence databases. State Department
officers overseas, for instance, did not know that some of the Sept. 11
hijackers had overstayed previous visas to America, let alone that the C.I.A.
knew one of them had connections to Al Qaeda.

Similarly, the immigration service's desire to keep better track of foreign
students studying in the United States has been thwarted by delays over the
years and by objections from universities. The values and practices of American
universities need not be undermined by reforms in the way they maintain records
about foreign students.

These and other lapses will not be remedied by the wholesale fingerprinting of
tens of thousands of Muslim and Middle Eastern visa holders. Indeed, set against
the immigration service's fundamental needs, this seems like a desperation move
by a Justice Department that has failed through both Democratic and Republican
administrations to manage the I.N.S. adequately and fix its chronic problems.

There is nothing wrong with asking long-term foreign visitors to demonstrate at
intervals that they are doing what they said they would do when they applied for
visas. But fingerprinting and registering people from certain suspect countries
will provide only an illusion of security and subject many innocent visitors to
the kind of intrusive checks that Americans traveling abroad would find
offensive if applied to themselves.

The war on terrorism requires overhauling the visa and immigration system for
everyone, not just Muslim or Arab visitors. As he goes about the necessary
business of tightening border security, Mr. Ashcroft should address basic
problems rather than settling for quick but ultimately ineffective solutions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawyers Try to Improve Lot of Young Refugees

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1113 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8


When Andrew D. Morton was preparing to testify before a Congressional panel this
year on the treatment of immigrant children who enter the country without adult
relatives or guardians, he had a place to turn for examples.

He e-mailed a call for help to lawyers at the many offices of his law firm,
Latham & Watkins, which has made refugee children the centerpiece of its pro
bono, or donated, legal work.

Latham & Watkins has Internet links with advocacy groups, immigration and legal
organizations, and lawyers who represent some of the nearly 5,000 unaccompanied
children detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service each year.

Some children have fled human rights abuses, including forced recruitment as
soldiers, laborers or prostitutes. Others were brought to the United States by
smugglers.

More than 100 lawyers have worked on the project, representing dozens of
immigrant children in deportation and asylum cases, providing legal advice on
bills in Congress and advocacy on the issue.

This week, the head of the American Bar Association, Robert E. Hirshon, in
remarks to immigration judges, cited Latham & Watkins's leadership in designing
a national project to serve detained children.

The immigration agency says it works with nonprofit organizations and public
agencies to place children in the least restrictive setting, but many spend
months in jails without access to important services.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the
immigration subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee, says more than 30 percent
of children in custody are in juvenile jails. Many others, he says, are kept at
shelters for months without translators, education or medical care.

Many unaccompanied juveniles appear in court without lawyers or guardians, legal
advocates say. Immigration laws do not provide government-paid lawyers for
immigrants.

The bar association in the District of Columbia honored Mr. Morton this week as
the pro bono lawyer of the year for the more than 1,400 hours he has spent on
the project. He said his firm treated pro bono clients the same way as
commercial clients, "with a coordinated team approach across practice areas and
across office locations."

Sharing information and work among the dozens of the child immigration cases in
the United States has enabled the firm's lawyers to learn quickly about the
issues involved, Mr. Morton said.

Latham & Watkins has more than 1,000 lawyers in its 21 offices around the world.
The average pro bono work per lawyer was 80 hours last year, up from about 60 in
2000 and 40 in 1999. The firm devoted more than 90,000 hours to pro bono work in
2001 -- time worth about $24 million in fees, said Steven H. Schulman, who
oversees the work from the firm's Washington office.

When the publication The American Lawyer ranked the nation's 100
highest-grossing firms by their pro bono commitment last year, Latham & Watkins
was 10th.

In February 2001, a colleague at the American Bar Association told Mr. Schulman,
who spends half his time coordinating pro bono work and the other half working
for paying clients, about the plight of children seeking asylum. Mr. Schulman
said he sensed that the firm could make the cause a signature project. At the
time, the Senate was considering a bill governing procedures for keeping
immigrant children in custody. Because detention centers are scattered around
the country, the project had the potential for national scope, Mr. Schulman
said.

"The effort was attractive because we already had a core of expertise in asylum
and human rights work," he said. "We could build on our strengths and geographic
breadth and add to our legislative work."

Organizations around the nation refer immigration cases involving unaccompanied
children to the firm. They include Public Counsel in Los Angeles, the Volunteer
Legal Services Program in San Francisco and the Midwest Immigrant and Human
Rights Center in Chicago. Many children have grounds for seeking asylum, lawyers
say, and need advice during removal proceedings before immigration judges.

The lawyers also help make living arrangements for the children, who they
contend are often placed in overly restrictive settings. In the last year,
lawyers at Latham & Watkins have won the release or transfer of about a dozen
children from adult jails and juvenile detention centers to foster care and to
relatives in the United States.

Lawyers from the firm's offices in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, New York
and Washington have visited detention centers and reported on conditions and
services.

Mr. Morton, who works in the Washington office, went on a 10-day tour of
detention centers last year before testifying on Capitol Hill about the need for
a better system to deal with the children. He worked with Senator Dianne
Feinstein, Democrat of California, who has introduced a bill to transfer
responsibility for the children from the immigration service to another agency
in the Justice Department, which would set standards for detention, release and
legal representation.

Esther F. Lardent, the president of the Pro Bono Institute here, said other
firms have also developed signature projects, but "none have the national reach
that Latham & Watkins has achieved."

The firm has created a "global picture," she said, "by translating what it
learns on the ground to look for systemic reforms."

Most projects are more local, Ms. Lardent said. For, example, Leonard, Street &
Deinard of Minneapolis has set up a free legal-services clinic in a poor
neighborhood there. Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo of Boston has
dedicated resources to assisting women who have been physically abused.

Amnesty International, the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Bar
Association, the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, the Women's Commission for
Refugee Women and Children and other groups have called for immigration
officials to change the way they deal with unaccompanied children.

Wendy Young, the director of government relations at the Women's Commission,
said the firm's efforts are starting to pay off.

"It has helped heighten attention to the issue to the point that we think we
could have significant legislative reform this year," Ms. Young said.

The immigration agency announced restructuring last month that included creating
an office to handle child immigrants. Ms. Feinstein's measure, which has
bipartisan support on Capitol Hill, has been included in recent proposals to
reorganize the agency.

Benoit Jacqmotte, another lawyer at Latham & Watkins in Washington, said the
firm's work with child immigrants showed that "a big firm can wrap itself around
a big project and make a difference."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven H. Schulman, left, Andrew D. Morton and Benoit Jacqmotte
of Latham & Watkins help children detained by immigration authorities. (Carol T.
Powers for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 21, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

European Summit Talks Open Today; Focus Is Immigration Control

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1014 words

DATELINE: SEVILLE, Spain, June 20


The European Union is at an important crossroads, 15 countries looking to
enlarge to 25 while transforming its own ponderous procedures, trying to become
both efficient and democratic. But the Union's summit meeting here Friday and
Saturday will barely make a dent in the organizational problems.

Instead, stung by a political shift to the right in Europe, the leaders have
turned this meeting into one dominated by immigration, which was shoved onto the
agenda only after the far-right politician Jean-Marie Le Pen did so well in the
first round of the French presidential vote in April.

The meeting will also face the now common demonstrations against globalization
and Europe's confusion in pressing for open trade while continuing to subsidize
its own businesses, including an outdated and wildly expensive system of farm
subsidies that takes up 45 percent of the European Union budget.

In fact the host, Jose Maria Aznar, the conservative prime minister of Spain,
which is ending its six-month presidency, had to postpone the beginning of the
meeting by several hours on Friday to allow his colleagues to arrive. There was
a general strike today in Spain, which left few open businesses and no taxis.

The strike was about domestic changes to social security, but it has made the
leaders ever more sensitive to the political backlash from voters concerned
about their living standards, crime and foreigners.

Immigration as a general issue has been roiling Europe and providing votes for
right-wing and populist candidates. It has become a major election issue in
Germany, with its stagnant economy, high unemployment and history of generosity
to refugees.

In Germany, as in France, Britain and Spain, the issue of immigration has also
become associated with a perception of rising crime and has taken on a tinge of
terrorism. Muslim immigrants in all four countries have been linked to the Sept.
11 attacks on New York and Washington.

Urged on by Mr. Aznar and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, the leaders will
debate how to press other countries to stop the flow of illegal immigrants to a
Europe grown wealthy and attractive.

Britain has suggested economic sanctions or reductions in aid, but other
countries, like France and Sweden, are looking for softer solutions, arguing
that punishing poor countries will only generate more illegal migration.

But the leaders are expected to endorse plans to increase the number of border
guards and to set a timetable to work out a common asylum policy and rules on
how applicants are treated.

The European Commission, the Union's executive body, estimates that half a
million illegal immigrants enter each year, almost as many as the 680,000 legal
immigrants. But most of the illegal immigrants are believed to be economic
migrants who overstay their visas, not people abusing the asylum process. In
fact the number of people seeking asylum in Europe has dropped steadily since
the end of wars in the Balkans.

Prime Minister Aznar has rejected allegations that Europe is seeking to seal its
borders to anybody from outside, which the candidate countries of Eastern Europe
fear also means them. "I have said it clearly and I want to reiterate that
debates about a 'Fortress Europe' make no sense," Mr. Aznar said. "Europe is not
going to be a fortress, nor do we want it to become one, but it will not either
be a chasm where anything can pass through."

But both the United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, and
its High Commissioner for Refugees, Ruud Lubbers, have warned European leaders
not to toy with people's fears.

"There is a kind of public mood which unfortunately is not being addressed by
political leaders with sufficient leadership," Ms. Robinson said. Efforts to
seal borders must be coupled with clear legal channels for immigration, Mr.
Lubbers said.

The leaders are also struggling with Europe's economic downturn and the
requirement that all countries balance their budgets by 2004, and keep budget
deficits less than 3 percent of gross domestic product in the meantime.

Germany was warned for approaching that ceiling, infuriating Chancellor Gerhard
Schroder, who faces a tough election fight. So his government has leaked figures
showing that France is coming close to the ceiling now.

Finance ministers are trying to soften the 2004 target, making it subject to
"growth remaining in line with forecasts," a Spanish official said, one more
example of how reality often undermines European Union commitments.

Similarly, Mr. Schroder has said that unless Europe's agricultural policy is
reformed, his country cannot afford to pay farm subsidies that would be due to
new, poorer members when they join.

European leaders want to keep new members from getting full benefits right away,
but that would only postpone the real problem, which is to change a subsidy
system that hugely benefits the 5 percent of European workers who are farmers.
The 10 candidate countries will more than double the number of farmers and
increase the amount of land under cultivation by 42 percent.

The leaders will also work to resolve another embarrassing problem: The Union
wants to have a first real task for its own security and defense program, which
is formally separate from NATO.

The current NATO peacekeeping force in Macedonia is only about 800 troops, and
the Europeans want to take it over as a European Union project. But they still
need the use of the larger group's equipment, and squabbles between Greece and
Turkey -- a member of NATO but not of the Union -- has blocked this small effort
to project European power.

The leaders will also discuss proposals from the president of the European
Commission, Romano Prodi, to create an "inner cabinet" to work more efficiently,
especially once the Union enlarges. But all such proposals are complicated,
touching national interests and even affecting political coalitions within
states.

So as usual, major structural change will be put off for another time, awaiting
the results of a "convention" talking about a new constitution for the new,
larger European Union.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands marched in Madrid yesterday in a general strike
protesting social security changes on the eve of a European summit meeting in
Seville. (Agence France-Presse) Map of Europe highlighting Seville in Spain:
Fifteen government leaders are gathering today in Seville.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Under Fire, I.N.S. Begins Rolling Out a New Database to Track Foreign Students

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1099 words


Immigration officials this month began presenting to New York universities and
colleges a new system the federal government will use to track foreign students,
in the hope that smaller technical institutes will begin using it as early as
next month and that any flaws can be fixed before its use becomes compulsory
seven months from now.

The computerized system, if it is up and running on schedule, would embody the
most comprehensive change since Sept. 11 to the way the nation manages its
millions of foreign visitors.

The Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, or Sevis, will rely largely
on schools to monitor foreign students and to enter updated information about
them into a national database.

Under Sevis, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, long faulted for its
failure to manage the mounds of paper it collects on foreign students, would be
better equipped to determine who actually entered the country, where they were
supposed to be studying, whether they failed to study full time and if they
dropped out of school.

But the schools that can enroll foreigners are a mixed lot, ranging from major
universities to small language institutes, flight schools and beauty colleges.
And automation alone is unlikely to help the I.N.S. in its many other tasks,
including ensuring that only bona fide schools sponsor foreigners on student
visas and finding people who violate the conditions of their visas.

The agency's failures to keep its records on students up to date, have already
allowed some foreigners to enter the country repeatedly on student visas that
should have been invalidated.

Some of the 19 hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks had overstayed or violated the
provisions of their business or student visas, yet had made multiple visits to
the United States. Justice Department auditors, in reviewing the issuance of
student visas for two of the hijackers, also blamed the immigration service's
"dysfunctional" paper-based system.

The visas were issued in March, six months after the terror attacks and long
after the two men had completed their studies at American flight schools.

The two biggest local importers of students from abroad -- Columbia University
and New York University -- have already met with the I.N.S. and its contractor,
EDS Inc., to learn about the system.

"If it works well, Sevis has the potential of improving circumstances for
students, especially when they're dealing with the I.N.S. or the State
Department," said Richard B. Tudisco, director of the international students and
scholars office at Columbia. "Those officials will know a student's documents
are real because there will be a database that will show they're doing what they
said they would be doing."

But university officials said they also worried that meshing their computer
systems with the government's could create technical problems that may make it
difficult to meet the deadline of Jan. 30, 2003, when school participation in
Sevis will become compulsory. The inspector general of the Justice Department,
in a report issued last month, expressed similar doubts.

"We're probably better off getting on the database as soon as possible rather
than waiting until it's mandatory," said Lynne P. Brown, the vice-president of
university relations at N.Y.U.

About 4,000 of Columbia's 23,000 undergraduate and graduate students are
foreigners with student visas. At N.Y.U., student visa holders account for about
5,000 of the university's 48,000 students. The foreign countries with the most
students at the two schools are China, South Korea, Taiwan, Japan and India.

But foreign students and their dependents make up only a fraction of foreign
visitors and visa holders. Of the 7.6 million people granted visas to visit the
country last year, only 350,000 received student visas to attend classes at
universities or vocational institutes. Unlike tourists and foreigners who come
for business, however, students are issued open-ended visas valid only as long
as they remain in school.

Smaller schools may have an easier time because they will be entering data on
far fewer foreign students..

"For us the impact is not going to be significant, because of the smaller
numbers here," said Robert Hunter, the dean of enrollment services at TCI
College of Technology in Manhattan, where about 75 of 4,000 students have
student visas. The institute offers associate degrees in technical subjects like
engineering and office technology.

Similarly, officials at Bell Language School in Brooklyn, where the majority of
the 200 students are foreigners, said they did not anticipate problems. Marianna
Massarsky, the school's director, said Bell is ready because it has always kept
track of students and reported to the I.N.S., by letter, students who missed
more than 25 percent of their classes.

As difficult as it may be to rush a new computerized tracking system into
operation, it does not compare to the arduous task of purging unqualified
schools from the immigration agency's outdated list of those that can enroll
foreign students.

Nearly 74,000 academic and vocational institutions nationwide are authorized to
issue an I-20 form to a foreigner, who can then request a student visa by
presenting the form and other documents at an American consulate abroad. The
list contains many redundancies -- individual campuses of the same university
are listed separately, for example -- and may also include schools that are out
of business or bogus.

Justice Department auditors, citing immigration agents who said they rarely had
time to check into schools and did not know what to look for when they did,
recently called 200 schools on the list. The auditors said they found 86 of them
no longer appeared to be operating.

A check of 10 of the 1,800 schools in New York City and Long Island that are
authorized to issue I-20's, a list that includes dozens of high schools as well
as computer and secretarial schools, found that three were out of business.

The tracking system is just one of many the changes concerning foreign visitors
that have been proposed or enacted since the terror attacks.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has said he wants to fingerprint and register
more than 100,000 people who are in the country on non-immigrant visas and
collectively pose what he called "a national security concern."

Federal agents have already sought out and interviewed several thousand young
Arab and Muslim visa holders. The Bush administration also said it plans to
scrutinize student visa applicants whose academic interests are in what it
considers sensitive fields of science or technology.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ashcroft Petitions Justices For Secrecy in Deportations

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 693 words


Attorney General John Ashcroft asked the Supreme Court yesterday to permit
secret deportation hearings for people arrested after Sept. 11, arguing that
national security would be compromised by disclosure of any information about
the detainees.

The request presented the court with its first opportunity to review some of the
Justice Department's antiterrorism policies, which have drawn criticism from
civil rights groups.

In the petition, Mr. Ashcroft and the department's chief immigration judge,
Michael Creppy, asked the court to issue a stay of a lower court's ruling in New
Jersey, which rejected Judge Creppy's blanket closing of deportation hearings.

A stay, pending the government's appeal of the New Jersey ruling, would keep
Judge Creppy's November directive to immigration judges in effect. That order
excluded the public, the press and family members from attending hearings for
"special interest" detainees who are being deported by the government.

The government's petition yesterday cast the issue in stark terms.

"This is an extraordinary case, touching on the nation's very ability to defend
itself against the continuing threat of hostile attack from myriad and unknown
sources," the Justice Department said in its request.

The American Civil Liberties Union and several newspapers have challenged the
Creppy directive in two federal lawsuits, calling it a violation of the First
Amendment and of the detainees' rights to due process.

"Notwithstanding the sweeping rhetoric in the government petition, the actual
legal issue before the courts is much narrower," said Lee Gelernt, a lawyer with
the civil liberties union.

"The First Amendment requires that secret proceedings occur only where there has
been a specific individualized showing that closure is necessary in a particular
case," he added. "We do not believe the government has demonstrated that
traditional First Amendment rules should not apply."

The lawsuit that prompted the petition to the Supreme Court was brought before
the United States District Court in Newark by the civil liberties union, The New
Jersey Law Journal and the North Jersey Media Group, which owns The Herald News
of West Paterson and other papers.

Last month, Judge John W. Bissell of United States District Court in Newark
ruled against the Justice Department and Mr. Ashcroft. The government has
appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, in Philadelphia, which denied the request for a stay this week.

A federal district judge in Detroit, in a similar case filed by the civil
liberties union and Detroit newspapers, ruled against the government. That case
has been appealed.

Federal investigators arrested about 1,200 people in the weeks after the terror
attacks. As far as is known, nearly all of them were immigrants from Arab and
Muslim countries. Most were charged only with immigration violations and most
have been deported.

Only 74 of the original Sept. 11 detainees remain in federal custody, according
to the latest Justice Department statement, but it is not clear how many of
those people are in deportation proceedings.

The information that is known about their cases has come from the detainees
themselves, who have generally been free to call relatives and reporters from
the immigration detention centers and jails where they have been held for more
than nine months. Many of them said they were interviewed by federal agents soon
after their arrests but were never charged with any crime other than overstaying
their visas.

The government, in accordance with the Creppy directive, has not released the
names of those detainees and has not listed their deportation hearings on
immigration court docket sheets.

The reason for such secrecy, Mr. Ashcroft argued in the Supreme Court petition,
is to prevent terrorist organizations from picking up clues about continuing
investigations and to protect the detainees from harassment. District courts in
Michigan and New Jersey, in ruling against the government, said it already has
discretion under existing regulations to exclude the public in order to protect
witnesses, the detainee or the public interest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Closing the Door to Public Scrutiny

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 394 words


The Supreme Court has been the quietest branch of government about the events of
Sept. 11. Congress passed the U.S.A. Patriot Act, rolling back civil liberties
in key areas, and the Bush administration has held hundreds in secret detention.
The court, meanwhile, said nothing. Yesterday the justices made themselves heard
for the first time, blocking a federal judge's order to open to the public
immigration hearings for terrorism suspects. It is a troubling move, and we hope
it does not signal more broadly how the court will decide civil liberties
challenges to the war on terrorism.

Last month Judge John Bissell of federal district court in New Jersey struck
down the government's blanket policy of barring the public and the media from
detention and deportation hearings in what it calls "special interest" cases. In
a well-reasoned decision, he held that hearings can be closed when there is a
danger of revealing evidence that could compromise an investigation, but that
otherwise the First Amendment requires that immigration hearings, like criminal
trials, be open.

The Bush administration asked the Supreme Court to put Judge Bissell's order on
hold while it appealed. If the hearings are open, Solicitor General Theodore
Olson argued, terrorists "will have direct access to information about the
government's ongoing investigation." It is a disingenuous argument, given the
protections the trial court put in place for information that is truly
sensitive.

The Supreme Court did not explain its decision. It is possible the justices
simply wanted to avoid even the chance of compromising national security until
the issue can be fully aired. The Supreme Court could end up reaching the same
decision as Judge Bissell did. But it is disturbing that the justices reached
down to issue a stay when the court hearing the appeal of the order, the Third
Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia, refused to do so.

The Supreme Court has issued some of its most regrettable rulings in the name of
protecting the nation from domestic threats -- upholding the imprisonment of
radicals in 1925 and the internment of Japanese-Americans in 1944. When the
open-hearings case reaches the Supreme Court, as it is likely to, the justices
should remember that history will judge them by how steadfastly they hold to
core constitutional principles in difficult times.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Supreme Court Roundup;
Court to Review Mandatory Detention of Immigrant Felons

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28


The Supreme Court agreed today to decide a question on the rights of immigrants
facing deportation proceedings under the strict rules of the 1996 revision of
immigration law.

The issue is whether the law's mandatory detention policy, under which
immigrants who have committed certain crimes must be kept in custody even if
they are challenging their deportation, violates the Constitution's guarantee of
due process because it makes no provision for release on bail of those who
present no danger or threat of flight.

While the case brings to mind the government's extensive detention of foreigners
after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, it does not involve the special
national security detention and removal provisions that Congress passed last
year.

Rather, this case concerns the treatment of immigrants convicted of
garden-variety offenses that under the 1996 law make them subject to mandatory
detention while awaiting "removal," the law's term for deportation.

More than 75,000 people in this category of "criminal aliens" have been detained
for months or years since the law took effect. While some have been convicted of
serious offenses, many have been convicted of drug crimes that are minor but
meet the law's definition of "aggravated felonies."

Three federal appeals courts have recently examined the detention provisions of
the law, known formally as the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996, and all three have ruled that the mandatory
detention, without the possibility of hearings or release on bail, raised
serious due process problems. The government appealed to the Supreme Court from
all three decisions.

While one of the rulings was broadly enough worded to apply even to aliens who
were not lawfully admitted to the country, the ruling the Supreme Court agreed
to review today was limited to lawful permanent residents.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco,
declared in the case of a Korean immigrant convicted of burglary and other
property offenses that the mandatory detention provision was unconstitutional.
The immigrant, Hyung Joon Kim, who came to the United States in 1984 at age 6,
was released on $5,000 bail shortly after the Jan. 9 ruling.

Under the appeals court's ruling, lawful permanent residents are entitled to a
hearing on whether they can safely be released on bail.

In the government's appeal, Demore v. Kim, No. 01-1491, Solicitor General
Theodore B. Olson said the appeals court had failed to give proper deference to
the determination by Congress that the detention provision was necessary to make
sure that individuals facing deportation did not disappear, as many did before
the 1996 law took effect.

"The Ninth Circuit straightforwardly substituted its own policy judgment for the
considered conclusion of the political branches," the government's brief said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had actually opposed the mandatory
detention provision when Congress was considering it. In the appeals court,
Judge William A. Fletcher took note of that history.

"We are reluctant to uphold civil detention impinging on fundamental liberty
interests, based on a government policy the need for which the implementing
agency has itself questioned," he wrote.

These were among the court's other actions on a busy final day today:

Cities in Fraud Suits

The court accepted an appeal by Cook County, Ill., and agreed to decide whether
local governments can be sued under the False Claims Act, a federal law that
authorizes individuals to bring suits charging government contractors and
recipients of federal grants with defrauding the government.

The court ruled two years ago that states could not be sued under the law. In
the case the court accepted today, Cook County v. Chandler, No. 01-1572, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, refused to
extend that ruling to local governments and permitted a suit to proceed against
Cook County for fraud in the administration of a drug treatment program.

Because successful plaintiffs can receive triple damages under the False Claims
Act, the scope of the law has been of great concern to local governments. A
brief filed in this case by New York City on behalf of itself and other major
cities said that the Seventh Circuit's ruling "has profound implications for
innocent local taxpayers."

The question in the case is whether Congress intended the False Claims Act to
apply to local governments. Two other appeals courts have ruled that it did not.


Vacating a Death Penalty

The justices vacated a death sentence imposed under the Federal Death Penalty
Act of 1994 and told the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit,
in St. Louis, to review the case in light of the Supreme Court's ruling earlier
this week that found Arizona's death penalty statute to be unconstitutional.

The Arizona law, struck down in Ring v. Arizona, required the judge rather than
the jury to determine the facts that were essential to making a convicted
murderer subject to the death penalty. That approach violated the Sixth
Amendment right to trial by jury, the court ruled.

Under the federal law, the jury does make the required finding of the existence
of "aggravating circumstances." However, the specific circumstances that the
government intends to prove are not part of the indictment. That makes the law
flawed under the approach the court has recently taken to the respective roles
of judge and jury in criminal cases.

Billie J. Allen, the defendant in this case, Allen v. United States, No.
01-7310, was convicted of killing a security guard while robbing a bank in St.
Louis in 1997. Murder during the course of a bank robbery is a capital offense
under federal law, and the government sought the death penalty.

According to government lawyers, there are about a dozen defendants on federal
death row who, like Mr. Allen, have not concluded their appeals and so are
likely to benefit from the Arizona ruling.

Three dozen more are awaiting trial and will presumably now be charged under new
indictments. An additional 20, already under sentence of death, have exhausted
their appeals and are likely to face substantial obstacles to taking advantage
of the new ruling.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 13, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Suspected Agent for bin Laden Pleads Guilty to Illegally Entering the U.S.

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 500 words


A man suspected by the government of being an agent for Osama bin Laden pleaded
guilty this week to illegally entering the United States in June 2001, federal
authorities said yesterday.

The man, Nabil al-Marabh, 35, was found hiding in a tractor-trailer at the
Niagara Falls border crossing, and he was carrying a false Canadian passport,
the authorities said. Although United States intelligence officials had
suspicions about Mr. Marabh's links to Mr. bin Laden, United States immigration
officials turned Mr. Marabh over to the Canadian authorities, who released him
on bail after his lawyer promised that an uncle would keep him out of trouble.

It was not until after the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center, when Mr.
Marabh was placed on a list of possible Al Qaeda operatives, that he was hunted
down and arrested. The authorities said that they suspected him of providing
documents to the hijackers of the planes that struck the twin towers.

As part of a plea agreement, Mr. Marabh pleaded guilty on Monday in Federal
District Court in Buffalo. While the maximum penalty is five years in prison,
officials expect Mr. Marabh to receive a term of two to eight months. However,
he is likely to serve no additional time because he has been in prison since his
arrest in September. "As it stands, after serving his sentence the immigration
service has ordered him deported to Syria," said Marc Gromis, the assistant
United States attorney handling the case.

Mr. Marabh came to the attention of the F.B.I. and C.I.A. in 2000 because of his
connection to Raed Hijazi, who in February was convicted in Jordan of conspiring
to blow up, on the eve of the millennium, Jordanian tourist sites frequented by
Americans and Israelis.

Officials said that they believed that Mr. Hijazi and Mr. Marabh met in
Afghanistan in 1994, and they said that after Mr. Hijazi's arrest in October
2000, he identified Mr. Marabh as an agent for Mr. bin Laden.

Mr. Marabh first entered the United States in 1989 and has lived in Florida,
Detroit and Boston as well as Canada, officials said.

A Kuwaiti by birth, Mr. Marabh claimed Syrian citizenship when he applied for
political asylum in Canada in 1994. His request was denied, and he was deported
in 1995.

He returned to Boston, to work as a cabdriver, and was convicted of assault in
December 2000 for stabbing a friend with a knife. He was given a six-month
suspended sentence.

After the Canadian authorities released Mr. Marabh in June 2001, he slipped back
into the United States, officials said. On Sept. 17, F.B.I. agents raided a
Detroit house where Mr. Marabh was thought to be living. He was not there, but
officials said that they found passport pictures, false identifications and
notes related to an American military base in Turkey. He was arrested on Sept.
19 in a suburb of Chicago.

Officials said Mr. Marabh was initially held at the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn and moved to the federal detention center in Batavia, near
Buffalo, in April.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 14, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Santa Ana de Guadalupe Journal;
A Saint Who Guides Migrants to a Promised Land

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 902 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA DE GUADALUPE, Mexico


Not all immigrant smugglers are the ruthless criminals depicted by international
law enforcement officials. In this impoverished region of devout Catholics,
where most men can either go into the priesthood or in search of work in the
United States, at least one smuggler is celebrated as a saint.

His name is Toribio Romo, a priest whose rise to sainthood began in the 1920's
when he was killed defending his religious beliefs.

Then rumors of new exploits spread on underground immigrant trails from here to
northern California: an angel dressed in dark clothing was guiding lost souls
safely across the border into the United States. As St. Toribio's popularity
soared, some church officials called him a "Patron of Immigrants."

Now thousands of pilgrims, and one business-savvy priest, have turned Father
Romo's hometown in Jalisco State -- once a dying village of 400 cattle farmers
-- into a booming religious tourism destination.

Father Romo was shot to death by soldiers during the Cristero War between
Catholic rebels and a government determined to eliminate church influence in
political matters. Pope John Paul II made the slain priest a saint two years
ago, along with 24 other Catholic martyrs of the Cristero War. But even in a
region that raises more priests than any other part of this fervently Catholic
country, that is not the story that made St. Toribio famous.

In the early days after his canonization, few people came to visit the chapel
where Father Romo was born and laid to rest. This ramshackle village, with no
roads, no telephones and no stable livelihoods, seemed destined to disappear.

Like so many others across the high plains of central Mexico, the men of Santa
Ana de Guadalupe sought to escape their poverty by migrating to the United
States. But the journey became more deadly in recent years as stepped-up law
enforcement along the border forced immigrants to try ever more perilous treks
into blistering deserts.

Then came word of St. Toribio's migration miracles. The first account, according
to church lore, came from a native of the neighboring state of Michoacan,
remembered popularly only as Jose . He had arrived at the border with no
documents and no hope. Then a stranger appeared and offered him safe passage, a
good meal and a decent job.

Jose asked how much it would cost to buy his American dream. The mysterious
stranger asked only that Jose visit him sometime in Santa Ana de Guadalupe.

Jose made it to the States, then eventually came here to thank his generous
coyote, as immigrant smugglers are called. People directed him to the small
chapel on the hill, where a dumbfounded Jose learned that his coyote was a
saint.

On a recent Sunday the church seemed too small to hold the droves of people who
came, many crawling on their knees, for the five masses. Catholic officials said
some 5,000 pilgrims visit each weekend, many of them emigrants at home on
vacation or others who are about to embark.

Those pilgrims who had already gotten their miracle, and those who had not, were
not hard to detect. The blessed ones came in vintage Mustangs and sport utility
vehicles, wearing snakeskin boots and Stetson hats. Those seeking a blessing
came on rickety school buses, wearing dusty blue jeans and sneakers.

They all filed in a line through the church, past St. Toribio's coffin, which is
on display at the altar. They ran their hands gently over the glass cases
holding his blood-stained clothing. Most visitors bought medallions, posters and
plaques with the saint's young but stoic face.

This has become one of the fastest growing religious shrines in the country
under the direction of the Rev. Gabriel Gonzalez Perez, 39, who looked more hip
than holy with his turquoise button-down shirt, pressed khakis and dark
sunglasses.

A cobblestone "All Saints Causeway" lined by busts of the Cristero War martyrs
runs through the cornfields. Beethoven's Fifth Symphony booms from speakers in
the light posts. The Catholic church operates the Pilgrim's Restaurant and sells
T-shirts from a store on the roof.

The road into town is paved. Dilapidated houses were replaced by brick cottages.
Still to be completed, Father Gonzalez said, is the "center for religious
reflection," a colonial-style dormitory with meeting rooms and a central plaza
with a 12-foot waterfall.

Only priests are allowed into a gated recreation area with terraces and gardens
as elegant as any country club.

The transformation offers a new twist on the old Mexican story of how immigrant
dollars make ghost towns into oases. Mexico receives an estimated $9 billion a
year in immigrant remittances. That money has helped pay for roads, water
systems, schools and hospitals across impoverished rural regions of the country.

"This is not a business," Father Gonzalez insisted. "We are not trying to make
money on people's faith. We simply want to give the people who visit us the best
services we can."

The Catholic Church has not officially confirmed Father Romo's miracles along
the border. However, church literature has helped spread the legend. Available
from most vendors in town is a pocket-size "Migrants Prayer Book," which opens
with a bon voyage message from the local bishop and includes prayers for
migrants to recite on their journey to the United States.

Among them is the prayer for Crossing Without Documents. "I feel I am a citizen
of the world," it says, "and of a church without borders."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A vendor offers pictures of St. Toribio at his shrine. A
migrant, below, kisses the spot where the saint's coffin is on display.
(Photographs by Jorge Nunez for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting
Santa Ana de Guadalupe: Many men from Santa Ana de Guadalupe seek work in the
U.S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 15, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deadly Tactic By Smugglers: Wrong-Lane Driving

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 14


They are typically referred to as the wrong-way drivers. But Raul Villarreal of
the Border Patrol has another name for the drug and illegal-immigrant smugglers
who barrel into oncoming lanes of traffic to evade capture or, under cover of
night, even detection. They are, he says, suicidal.

"They will employ any means," said Agent Villarreal, a spokesman in the Border
Patrol's San Diego office. "All they want is to get paid."

With the tactic in growing use at or near the San Diego border crossing, local,
state and federal officials have announced a crackdown on the wrong-way drivers,
promising stepped-up surveillance at the border and better barriers to keep
drivers in their proper lanes.

So far, even multiple fatalities have not stopped wrong-way smuggling.

On the night of June 24, a van with its lights off and packed with illegal
immigrants sped west in the eastbound lanes of Interstate 8 to avoid a Border
Patrol checkpoint that sat only in the westbound lanes. The van sideswiped two
cars, collided with a sport utility vehicle and then hit another van. The driver
of the S.U.V. was killed, as were the driver of the wrong-way van and 4 of the
26 other people it carried. One of the 26, Alfred Alvarez Coronado, was arrested
and charged with smuggling illegal immigrants.

The wrong-way tactic is being attributed primarily to a ring of drug and
immigrant smugglers that the authorities learned of only after that crash. The
Border Patrol reports at least 16 instances of wrong-way smuggling in the last
year, 5 in the last month.

Surveillance cameras have captured such smugglers plowing north through
southbound gates at the border, their vehicles occasionally pushing others out
of the way and running right over spike strips before they can be intercepted.
They then continue north in the southbound lanes of Interstate 5, which often
carries heavy traffic.

Once the drivers cross the border, stopping them becomes tricky.

"We have a pursuit policy which impedes us from pursuing vehicles traveling
against traffic," Agent Villarreal said. "It's too risky. We place more value on
human life."

Border Patrol agents say the wrong-way smugglers, so far unique to the San Diego
area, are increasingly sophisticated. The smugglers are filling their tires with
a silicone gel, the agents say, so they can negotiate the tire-shredding spike
strips and are using reinforced bumpers that can be used to ram oncoming cars.
They tend to travel when traffic is light, usually during the week from midnight
to 3 a.m.

Though declining to detail many of the steps being taken to thwart the wrong-way
drivers, Border Patrol officials say they will be stationing agents on the
southbound side of the port of entry to intercept them and using helicopters to
help track vehicles as they approach the border.

The officials say that while it is hard to determine all the points from which
the smugglers are setting out for their border crossing, a large taxi stand a
few hundred yards south of the border is frequently used.

Mexican officials have pledged to take several steps, among them installing a
second set of spike strips and redesigning the taxi area to eliminate access to
the southbound lanes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Six people, five in this van, were killed when it was driven
toward oncoming traffic with its lights out and hit four vehicles on a
California Interstate. But the fatalities have not stopped the tactic of
wrong-way smuggling. (Jim Baird/San Diego Union-Tribune, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 5, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: Florida: Smuggled Immigrants

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 84 words


Smugglers dropped 55 Cubans in the Florida Keys, bringing to 107 the number of
such immigrants who arrived there over three days, the authorities said. The
latest arrivals were found in three groups near Marathon, a town about midway
down the 100-mile chain of islands at Florida's southern tip. Illegal migration
from Cuba, just 90 miles from Florida at its closest point, often increases in
summer months when winds and seas subside, easing the sometimes dangerous
passage across the Florida Straits.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tennessee Town Loses Allure for Immigrants

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: SHELBYVILLE, Tenn., Dec. 21


In the 1990's, they came here by the thousands from Mexico and Central America,
making their way across the border and traveling by van to this rural town in
horse country.

They found jobs easily at the Tyson Foods chicken-processing factory on the edge
of town, often without working papers or, perhaps, using counterfeit Social
Security cards, current and former workers say.

Shelbyville, 60 miles south of Nashville, became a magnet for Mexicans and
Guatemalans who found shelter at the trailer parks that sprang up near the plant
and in cottages and shanties not far from the town square.

The immigrant community and the Mexican grocery stores and taco stands that have
opened helped transform Shelbyville's identity.

But now this town of 16,000 people is at the center of the largest
immigrant-smuggling case that involves a major American company, government
prosecutors said.

An investigation that started four years ago here, when the Police Department
heard about immigrant smuggling that prosecutors said involved a Mexican grocer
and Tyson executives, has led to the indictment of Tyson and six managers.

The company and the executives are charged with arranging to transport illegal
immigrants across the border and helping them obtain counterfeit work papers for
jobs in Shelbyville and more than 12 other poultry plants in nine states.

The company said the case involved a handful of employees who were acting
against policy.

Since the investigation began, Tyson, the largest poultry and meat processor in
the nation, has cracked down on illegal workers at its plant in Shelbyville, the
largest factory in town, former and current workers said.

With the national economy in a slump and the local economy reeling from layoffs
at other companies in the region, many of the Mexicans and Guatemalans are
leaving.

"There's no work here," said Rene Gaspar, 23, a Guatemalan who arrived six
months ago with no working papers and no money and is sharing a heatless shanty
with three other unemployed Guatemalans. "We were looking for work and looking
for a life here. But what we are is poor and ashamed."

Among those who were dismissed from the factory that drew them in the first
place, some have found seasonal work in the nearby tobacco fields.

Others have taken the few jobs available at factories that are not too strict
about working papers, and a few are working as grooms for the stables of walking
horses for which the region is known.

For those who want to go back home, the Mexican grocery stores display signs
that advertise van trips to the border.

In 1990, according to Census figures, Shelbyville had 92 Hispanic residents.

A decade later, in 2000, it had 2,343, although those figures are considered low
because they are unlikely to reflect many of the illegal workers.

For those who remember Shelbyville from long ago -- who might have seen Mexicans
arriving in town as grooms for the annual Tennessee Walking Horse Celebration
over the years but never expected a large enclave -- the influx has required an
adjustment.

"It is quite a different place," said the city manager, Ed Craig, who grew up
here, left for 35 years and returned three years ago.

The schools have enrolled thousands of Spanish-speaking children over the last
few years, starting programs in English as a Second Language. A Hispanic church,
Iglesia de Cristo, opened on Madison Street, a main road, a few years ago. Bank
tellers are taking Spanish courses, and drugstores sell Glamour magazine in
Spanish.

Last year, The Shelbyville Times-Gazette added two pages in Spanish, which are
published on Fridays. The editor, Mark McGee, said some readers called to cancel
their subscriptions in protest.

At the trailer park near the Tyson plant, which was crammed with factory workers
until last year and now has several vacancies, residents said, there are still a
few residents who work for Tyson. But those who do not have legal papers said
they expected to have to leave at any time.

None said they knew of Tyson's involvement in smuggling workers, and all the
workers interviewed said they had made their way to Tennessee on their own.

But they said that starting about a year ago their supervisors began selecting
employees whom they knew were working illegally and firing them.

"I don't know if I'll lose my job this week or next week," said a man who
identified himself only as Alfonso, who traveled to Shelbyville in 1998 to work
for Tyson after having paid a man $1,000 to help him across the Mexican border
into Arizona.

Alfonso, 35, who has no working papers, shares his trailer with Jesus Gonzalez,
19, who was discharged from Tyson last year because he was working there
illegally. Mr. Gonzalez now works a few days here and there for a company that
delivers the live chickens to the Tyson plant, he said.

Alfonso said he would probably leave if he were caught for working illegally at
Tyson and, perhaps, go to South Carolina, where he heard that there was farm
work.

"I don't think it will be long," he said. "And there are no more jobs here for
me."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fermin Estrada, top, worked at Tyson Foods for six years to
save enough money to open his Mexican grocery in Shelbyville. Now he worries
about losing customers like Jesus Gonzalez, recently let go by the Tyson plant
at the heart of an immigrant-smuggling case. (Photographs by Christopher Berkey
for The New York Times) Map of Tennessee highlighting Shelbyville: Shelbyville
once drew thousands of workers from Latin America.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 3, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tyson's Chief Receives Bonus

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: SPRINGDALE, Ark., Jan. 2


Tyson Foods said in a government filing today that it had awarded its chief
executive a $2.1 million bonus for the last fiscal year, despite company
troubles over the purchase of the meatpacker IBP and a federal indictment
accusing it of smuggling illegal immigrants.

In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission today, Tyson Foods,
which is based here, said it awarded John H. Tyson, the chief executive, a $2.1
million bonus on top of his $650,000 salary for the fiscal year that ended Sept.
29.

Mr. Tyson received no bonus for the previous fiscal year.

Tyson Foods' $3.2 billion acquisition of IBP in September made Tyson the largest
meat producer in the nation. Initially, Tyson accused IBP, based in Dakota
Dunes, S.D., of failing to fully disclose its financial condition and tried to
cancel the acquisition. IBP sued, and a state judge in Delaware Chancery Court
ordered Tyson to complete the acquisition.

In December, a federal indictment in Tennessee accused the company and six
managers of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants into the country from
Mexico. Tyson Foods has denied the charges, saying any wrongdoing by its
employees was done on their own.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 23, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: 2 Indicted In Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE:  By Stacy Albin (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 86 words


Two Egyptian men have been accused of attempting to smuggle family members and
others through Brazil, Guatemala and Mexico, then into the United States.

The men, Adel R. Nasr, 22, of Hamilton, N.J., and his brother, Gamal Abdalgalil
Nasr, 22, of Queens, provided immigrants with smuggler contacts in foreign
countries, according to court documents. The immigrants, many of whom came from
Bata, Egypt, had paid $8,000 apiece. Neither of the Nasr brothers could be
reached for comment yesterday.   Stacy Albin (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers Detained in Australia Suspend Hunger Strike

BYLINE:  By BECKY GAYLORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Thursday, Jan. 31


Hundreds of asylum seekers at Woomera, Australia's largest immigration detention
center, said late Wednesday that they would suspend a 15-day hunger strike while
negotiations continued with the government over their detention.

But the government said it had made no change in its policy of detaining illegal
immigrants while their visa applications were processed, sometimes for years,
and protests and hunger strikes continued at some of the country's other
immigration detention centers.

About 100 immigrants at a camp called Curtin in western Australia refused to eat
for a third day, the government said. Detainees at another western Australian
camp, Port Hedland center, are also refusing to eat or drink, according to
reports.

Whether the tentative peace brokered with Afghan asylum seekers at Woomera, in
the desert plains of South Australia, will last depends on continued discussions
with representatives of the government's advisory group on detention, a
spokesman for the immigrants said.

"The hunger strike ends, but it doesn't mean that the negotiations will be
finished," said the spokesman, Hassan Varasi. Members of the advisory group, he
said, "promised us that the dialogue, negotiation will continue."

The asylum seekers at Woomera, largely from the Middle East, have said their
chief demand is to be moved out of mandatory detention.

The Australian government uses a network of detention centers to hold
unauthorized immigrants while their cases are processed, and immigration
officials insisted that no policy changes had been made to end the hunger strike
at Woomera.

The government has once again begun to consider visas for Afghan immigrants, a
process suspended some weeks ago after the Taliban government in Afghanistan
fell under American attacks.

But Immigration Minister Philip Ruddock, who welcomed news of the breakthrough,
said the action had nothing to do with the protests.

"When you're put under duress and say, 'This is an exception, we just have to
give way here,' what happens is more people assume that you can influence
decisions by inappropriate behavior and the behavior becomes more and more
extreme," Mr. Ruddock said.

Ray Funnell, a member of the government's advisory group, said that the
delegation had been able to build trust with the detainees and their
representatives and that they were working together.

But lawyers for the asylum seekers at Woomera, who were barred from the two-day
negotiations, say tensions remain and could flare again.

Immigrants, including Iranian and Iraqi asylum seekers, are still upset about
conditions at the center and about their continued detention generally.

Advocates for the asylum seekers predict that protests will continue until the
policy of mandatory detention, which still enjoys broad support among
Australians, is overturned.

The stance has come under growing criticism in Australia, particularly from
church groups and doctors, as well as from international organizations.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said this week that it opposed
detention of asylum seekers, "particularly when it is prolonged and when it
involves minors, which is the case in Australia."

Prime Minister John Howard said Australia would provide resettlement help to
Afghan asylum seekers who agree to return home.

The announcement came after he met Wednesday in New York with Afghanistan's
interim leader, Hamid Karzai.

The number of illegal immigrants coming to Australia from the Middle East has
fallen. Typically, they travel to Indonesia and are then loaded by smugglers
into rickety boats to complete their journey by sea.

The government adopted a plan in August to patrol its borders with military
aircraft and ships and intercept boats carrying asylum seekers. Australia now
takes them to neighboring Pacific islands, instead of to the mainland, to have
their visa applications processed.

The opposition Labor Party has criticized the government over the cost of its
policies for handling asylum seekers, although final estimates have not yet been
made. The Labor Party also backs mandatory detention for illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

L.I. @ WORK;
Unions Rethink Links to Undocumented Labor

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1120 words


SHOULD organized labor reach out to the undocumented worker, even when met with
suspicion or hostility? Or should labor view illegal immigration as a force that
depresses wages and threatens to reverse the movement's hard-won gains in higher
wages, greater benefits and improved work conditions?

On a sparkling day in early October, a group called the Coalition to Save Long
Island Jobs held its third annual conference at the de Seversky Conference
Center in Old Westbury. Where Alfred I. duPont once entertained guests in gilded
Jazz Age luxury, the coalition devoted a morning to discussing some of the
significant issues facing the labor movement.

Among the most important, and often the most divisive, is the issue of labor's
proper position on the undocumented worker.

"A number of unions are changing their position, and now are supportive of
undocumented workers and are trying to organize them," said Tony Macagnone, a
Town of Oyster Bay councilman as well as council representative of Local 7 of
the Empire State Council of Carpenters.

The old guard, however, views the workers' willingness to work at far lessthan
union rates as threatening the union's bargaining position.

For the Coalition to Save Long Island Jobs, a movement organized by the Long
Island Progressive Coalition during a strike by King Kullen workers in 1997, the
topic is emerging as a hot-button issue.

Judy Pannullo, director of the Progressive Coalition, said the King Kullen
strike achieved a breakthrough in terms of public support for the Long Island
labor cause. Since then, she said, it has been noticeably easier to raise labor
issues among Long Islanders and find supportive responses.

"Take globalization," said Ms. Pannullo, who doubles as executive director of
Save Long Island Jobs. "That threatens Long Island workers. A company can take
away your job and move it somewhere cheaper. We're against that." She said she
got more sympathy for that position now.

Still, it was not globalization that was the focus of this conference. On Long
Island the issue of undocumented workers made headlines last year when community
opposition to illegal aliens in Farmingville culminated in violence and angry
denunciations of the workers and their supporters. Active community opposition
to the immigrants, who gathered mornings at curbside locations to meet potential
employers, made Farmingville a flash point in the national debate over America's
immigration policy.

For labor, the issue is no less divisive. While some old-school unionists resent
spending union funds to help undocumented workers, a number of national and
local leaders are initiating recruitment drives and other outreach efforts.
Often these efforts are accompanied by free social programs, like English
conversation classes. Historically, such programs have improved relations
between the newcomers and the established work force, and are often a precursor
to successful union recruitment.

Mr. Macagnone moderated the hourlong panel, called "The Problems of Undocumented
Workers on Long Island," and was optimistically subtitled "A Constructive
Dialogue." According to Ms. Pannullo, the more strident voices that have been
heard on the issue were intentionally excluded. She said the reason was to keep
the meeting from getting ugly.

Those who deal honestly with the issue, Mr. Macagnone said, are walking on a
razor's edge.

"You oppose these guys as being here illegally and you're called a racist," he
said. "But if you try to bring them into the union, where they'll be paying
taxes like everyone else, you're criticized for helping people who are breaking
the law."

Mr. Macagnone said his union was nevertheless on the side of offering services
to workers, regardless of legal status or union affiliation. In Glen Cove, the
city arranged to build a hiring site that reduced public visibility and
inconvenience; the carpenters' union supported the effort, and the city's policy
was commended by several speakers that morning.

"Undocumented workers have become an essential part of the work force," he said.
"It's the duty of organized labor to represent all working people, whether
they're union or not."

Mr. Macagnone's views are not universally shared among union leaders. John
Kennedy, president of the 60,000-member Building and Construction Trades Council
of Nassau and Suffolk Counties, warned against providing help to workers before
resolving their legal status.

"Something has to be done to help these people in terms of getting them the
housing, benefits and safe working conditions they need," Mr. Kennedy said. "But
first things first. They have to become documented. Then we will organize them,
if we have to."

He said his union took no position on how undocumented workers could obtain
legal residency status. "That isn't our problem, that's the federal government's
problem," Mr. Kennedy said. He blamed federal immigration authorities for
failing to keep American borders secure.

The panel discussion on undocumented workers got underway with a presentation by
John Brock, representing an organization called the Tristate Immigration
Moratorium. He mentioned his Slovak roots on his mother's side before launching
into an anti-immigration argument. He cited several books opposing immigration
and attempted to win the audience over by repeating the standard economic
justification that large numbers of new workers depress wages for established
ones.

"Big business loves mass immigration, because it rationalizes the labor market,"
he declared. "From the free-market point of view, the American worker is vastly
overpaid. Open borders bring immigrants here who are happy to do your work for
far less money. In the past, they've put entire industries out of business.
Meatpacking used to be a good job; now, it's all done by immigrants and pays
miserably. Why do you think that The Wall Street Journal editorializes in favor
of open borders?"

John Scaffetta, a member of Mr. Macagnone's carpenters' union, spoke next. "We
find a tremendous influx of Hispanic workers in construction," he said. "Whether
we like it or not, we believe they're the work force of the future."

Acknowledging that in the past the union "has practiced the politics of
exclusion," he said that today his union was attempting to recruit Hispanic
workers and was doing some things differently, including hiring a Hispanic
organizer. He said it was too soon to talk about the new organizer's results.

Another speaker, John Bingham, a Catholic Charities social worker, sought to
make the point that being an undocumented worker was a legal condition, not a
moral one. Laws, he noted, can be amended.

"Laws ought to reflect reality," he said. "Businesses need workers. And workers
need jobs."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judy Pannullo, director of the Progressive Coalition, speaks
with Darren Sandow of the Long Island Unitarian Universalist Fund. (Maxine Hicks
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 6, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Illegal Workers' Kin, No Paper Trail and Less 9/11 Aid

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words


In his telephone calls to Mexico, Victor A. Martinez Pastrana had told his wife
little beyond the fact that he lived in an apartment in Manhattan with a friend,
whom he simply called "Chava," and washed dishes in a restaurant he never named
at the World Trade Center with a fellow Mexican from Puebla.

Illegal immigrants like Mr. Martinez Pastrana by necessity lead lives with few
traceable details, but now that traditional survival tactic has come back to
haunt his wife, Rosario Arrazola. Mr. Martinez Pastrana, who was 38, is believed
to have disappeared in the rubble of the towers on Sept. 11, leaving Ms.
Arrazola with the almost impossible task of trying to prove that her husband
worked there. Without such proof, she has been unable to obtain a death
certificate and may be shut out of a range of financial aid available to
survivors.

And without the death certificate, she said, she is not protected by a Mexican
government policy under which her house payments would be forgiven.

"This house is the only patrimony that my husband left me, and I'm about to lose
it," Ms. Arrazola, who has three children, said in a telephone interview from
Puebla.

Illegal immigrants who were the breadwinners for families not just in Mexico,
but in Ecuador, Colombia, Pakistan and West Africa died in the collapse of the
World Trade Center. Mostly men, they worked in all-but-invisible jobs as
delivery boys, kitchen aides and maintenance workers. They were often absent
from official payrolls, sometimes rooming with other men who had no family in
the city, leaving few if any traces to avoid deportation.

But in the aftermath of a tragedy in which terrorism was the great equalizer,
the survivors of these victims have encountered unique problems in navigating
the bureaucracy of death, say lawyers, immigrant groups and consular officials.

And while many have received charitable contributions from the Red Cross,
private groups and churches, they are also being denied significant financial
assistance, because more often than not, they are also here illegally.

"It's the coldest form of discrimination imaginable," said Bill Granfield,
president of Local 100 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union.
"We've been able to get them short-term assistance, but their long-term
prospects are very much in doubt."

Among the 43 members of Local 100 lost at Windows on the World Restaurant, 15
were illegal workers, 13 of them male, Mr. Granfield said. He said relatives
were covered by life insurance, and the union also helped them secure charitable
aid by filling out paperwork, gathering documents and even obtaining legal
representation to push applications for aid through.

But unlike the families of legal workers, these relatives are not eligible for
much of the assistance that helps rebuild lives, such as unemployment insurance,
state workers' compensation and federal Social Security benefits for survivors.

The illegal status of the survivors also means they do not qualify for federal
assistance like subsidized housing and emergency help with bills and food,
lawyers handling their cases say. Even some private organizations have denied
aid to illegal immigrants or given them less, some lawyers and immigrant groups
said.

The National Association of Realtors, for instance, gave away $8.3 million to
more than 1,000 families -- more than half of that to families in New York -- to
help them meet rent and mortgage payments so they would not lose their homes.
But recipients had to be citizens or legal residents. "We wanted to support the
families of people who were here legally," said Steve Cook, a spokesman for the
group.

But this stance has curtailed aid to one of the neediest groups, some lawyers
for the immigrants argued.

"These deaths left behind women who by virtue of their culture, their lack of
education, their lack of fluency in English and their child-rearing
responsibilities, will have difficulties getting jobs, and they're living off
whatever assistance they get," said Debra Brown Steinberg, a partner with
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft and one of the lawyers working free for immigrant
families affected by the terrorist attack.

The exact number of illegal workers who died at the World Trade Center is not
known, but it is believed to be small. Nonetheless, their survivors have faced
obstacles that have complicated not only their recovery, but their grieving.
Some immigration groups have called for the government to grant legal residency
to survivors who lost loved ones to terrorism.

A 25-year-old widow in Queens said her main problem was finding a low-cost
apartment for her and her young child after her husband, who made about $3,000 a
month, disappeared. "They ask for a Social Security number," she said of
landlords. "They ask me if I work, and when I say no, they think I won't be able
to pay for the apartment."

A 34-year-old Canadian woman whose husband was an American and was sponsoring
her application for legal status says she is now in limbo, not knowing whether
she and her two children will eventually be forced to leave the country.

"Starting over with them would be like losing again," she said.

Unlike most widows, who saw their husbands just hours before they died, Ms.
Arrazola said she last saw hers in April 1999, when he set out to cross the
border illegally through Tijuana, looking for a better-paying job.

On Sept. 11, she watched the tragedy unfold from afar, then came to New York
with her children last November to give DNA evidence. She was flown here by the
Red Cross.

No boss greeted her to give her condolences. She did not know where to go to
retrieve her husband's personal belongings.

She knew so little about him in New York, she said, because when he called home
with calling cards every 15 days around 9 p.m., he usually had more pressing
business than to talk about himself. Instead, he would use up his cards saying
hello to his three children and trying a little long-distance child rearing.
"I'd complain to him and then I'd put on the child who misbehaved and he'd tell
him to obey me," Ms. Arrazola, 35, said.

Ms. Arrazola said she knew her husband was gone only when his calls stopped.
Their oldest son's birthday was Sept. 13, she said, and there was no call from
his father.

"He never missed calling on a birthday," she said.

Ms. Arrazola's husband is among 16 illegal immigrants from Mexico whose families
reported them missing after the trade center attack. The reports were made to
the Mexican Consulate in New York City.

Norberto Terrazas, the consul in charge of legal affairs, said that in 12 of the
16 cases, relatives were still waiting for a death certificate, mostly because
some of the information needed to prove that the person was at the trade center
had been hard to come by. There are no payroll check stubs and receipts for
remittances, for instance, if workers were paid in cash and they sent money to
relatives with friends, he said.

City officials say safeguards are required to prevent fraud and that the
decision on death certificates is ultimately that of the Surrogate Court of the
City of New York. Those who do not meet the court's criteria must wait for the
identification of remains or for three years to petition the court directly,
they said.

Other family members are still trying to prove their loved ones' employment in
the towers and struggling with requirements that legal residents can easily
meet, said Joel Magallan, a Jesuit brother who is the executive director of
Asociacion Tepeyac de New York, a group that has been coordinating relief for
relatives of undocumented victims.

In recent weeks, Tepeyac has tried to coax employers to report names. "Our lists
could expand," he said.

There are better situations. Families whose loved ones belonged to unions have
received significant support in pursuing their claims, and in some instances
getting visas for children and other relatives overseas to reunify families.
Some employers have been forthcoming in identifying illegal workers and
providing evidence of employment.

A major source of financial assistance to survivors -- the federal Victims
Compensation Fund -- is available to those illegally in the country. Kenneth R.
Feinberg, the official who oversees the fund, said he had tried to reassure
families that they could apply without fear of deportation. He said the same
immunity from prosecution had been offered to employers who hired illegal
workers so they could come forward with financial information. But he conceded
that it might be difficult for people who worked off the books to meet some
requirements, such as proving economic loss.

In Puebla, Ms. Arrazola makes do by selling tostadas, chalupas and fritters from
her doorstep. She said she had received scholarships for her children's
education this year and about $9,000 in aid, with checks from a cultural
institute in Mexico, from the Tepeyac Association, and from the Robin Hood
Foundation.

She said her husband of 18 years had left for the United States because his
children, who attended private school, were approaching college age and what he
made as a chef in Mexico would soon hardly be enough.

"He always thought education was the least we could leave them," she said.

Mr. Martinez Pastrana's first trip back home was scheduled for this coming July,
when his eldest is to graduate from high school.

But he never set a return date to come home for good. He used to tell his
children the towers where he worked were so high he was really not that far.

"I can see you all from here," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosario Arrazola, who lives in Mexico, has struggled to prove
that her husband, Victor A. Martinez Pastrana, worked at the trade center. She
held an urn containing ashes from ground zero. (Lynsey Addario for The New York
Times)(pg. B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Appeals Court Overturns Policy on Detaining Immigrants

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 899 words


In a case that could affect thousands of immigrants detained while they fight
deportation, a federal appeals court in Philadelphia ruled yesterday that the
government's mandatory detention policy was unconstitutional and that each
detainee was entitled to an individualized bond hearing.

Since 1998, the government has required that all immigrants who face deportation
because of the crimes they have committed must stay in detention after they
finish serving their time, no matter how long the deportation process lasts.

In yesterday's ruling, the court said that while the government has a legitimate
right to detain those who might flee or pose a threat to the community, the
blanket detention policy violates the constitutional right to due process.

"To deprive these individuals of their fundamental right to freedom furthers no
government goal, while generating a considerable cost to the government, the
alien and the alien's family," the court said. "The goals articulated by the
government -- to prevent aliens from absconding or endangering the community --
only justify detention of those individuals who present such a risk."

The ruling, which is binding on those in Delaware, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and
the Virgin Islands, does not deal with those detained in the wake of the Sept.
11 terror attacks, but rather those who were convicted of earlier crimes, served
their sentences, and are detained awaiting a final deportation order.

Last summer, the United States Supreme Court ruled in the Zadvydas case that
immigrants who had received a final deportation order could not be detained
indefinitely, but must be released after six months, unless it was likely that
some country would take them in the reasonably near future.

"This is really a natural outgrowth of the Zadvydas decision, which acknowledged
that immigrants were protected by the Constitution, but left this particular
issue very open," said Judy Rabinowitz, the senior staff counsel at the American
Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants Rights Project, who handled yesterday's case.
"In both Zadvydas, and this case, the government argued that these people aren't
citizens, so they're not protected in the same way. And in both cases, the court
said, 'We don't care if they're not citizens, they're people, and our
Constitution says we don't lock people up without good reason.' "

Yesterday's ruling by the Third United States Circuit Court of Appeals came in
the case of Vinodbhair Bholidas Patel, a 55-year-old native of India, who has
lived in the United States since 1984. Since 1990, he has been a permanent
lawful resident of St. Louis, where he had several Dunkin' Donuts franchises,
bagel shops and hotels.

In 1996, the Immigration and Naturalization Service approved Mr. Patel's
applications for naturalization, but before the oath of allegiance could be
administered, the I.N.S. revoked its approval because Mr. Patel was convicted of
harboring an alien, and sentenced to five months home probation and five months
in prison, which he served at Allenwood Federal Prison in Pennsylvania.

Last year, while Mr. Patel was in prison, the I.N.S. notified him that his crime
was an aggravated felony making him subject to removal from the United States.
And in January when he finished his sentence, the I.N.S. took him to the Snyder
County Jail in Pennsylvania, where he remains.

"The government has not suggested that Patel poses a flight risk or danger to
the community," the court said. "He is a lawful permanent resident who has
resided in this country for the last 17 years. He has significant business ties
to his community, and his wife and four children reside in the United States. He
was convicted of alien harboring, not a violent crime or a crime with attendant
dangers such as drug use, and he was permitted to remain out of custody during
his criminal trial. In fact, the sentencing judge divided Patel's sentence into
five months of home probation and five months of imprisonment, further
reflecting the absence of any risk of flight or danger."

The court ordered that Mr. Patel be released from custody unless the government
promptly shows that his continued detention is necessary to prevent risk of
flight or danger to the community.

"Mr. Patel has been detained for 11 months, 6 months longer than his prison
sentence for the underlying offense, and 5 months longer than the 6-month period
the Supreme Court held presumptively reasonable for post-order detainees," the
court said.  "Due process requires an adequate and proportionate justification
for detention -- a justification that cannot be established without an
individualized inquiry into the reasons for detention."

Since the mandatory detention policy went into effect three years ago, only one
other federal appeals court has considered the issue -- upholding it in a 1999
case involving an immigrant who was not fighting his deportation. Yesterday's
ruling is the first since the Supreme Court's Zadvydas decision.

And it is of particular interest to immigration lawyers because the issue of
blanket detention policies has taken on new importance with the hundreds of
immigrants locked up in the wake of the terror attacks.

"What's especially significant is that this decision comes at a time when we're
seeing more blanket detention policies, and here is a court saying that you have
to look at each case," Ms. Rabinowitz said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 27, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: North Brunswick: Prison Signs Deal With I.N.S.

BYLINE:  NYT (Compiled by Yilu Zhao)

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 69 words


The Middlesex County Detention Center signed a deal with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service this month to hold up to 200 people charged with federal
noncriminal immigration offenses. Warden Michael Abode said yesterday that the
prison, which has space for 1,100 inmates, was not filled, and would receive $72
a day for each federal inmate. The first detainees will arrive at the beginning
of the new year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BRIEFING: PRISONS;
I.N.S. DETAINEES IN COUNTY PRISON

BYLINE:  By John Holl

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 51 words


The Middlesex County Detention Center will hold up to 200 people charged with
federal noncriminal immigration offenses beginning Tuesday in an agreement with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The prison, which can hold 1,100
inmates, will receive $72 a day for each federal inmate.   John Holl

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 19, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DETAINEES;
U.S. Fighting Suit for Names of New Jersey Sept. 11 Inmates

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 561 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 18


With the Department of Justice already fighting a federal suit in Washington by
civil libertarians seeking the names of immigrants detained after Sept. 11, the
United States attorney's office here now says it will help oppose a similar suit
in state court against two county jails housing detainees.

In December, after the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service
invoked a new federal law, the Patriot Act, in refusing to identify the
detainees, the American Civil Liberties Union filed a suit in United States
District Court in Washington to get the names.

That suit, which essentially pits the Patriot Act against the federal Freedom of
Information Act, is pending.

Last month, the A.C.L.U. of New Jersey asked officials of the Hudson County Jail
in Kearny and the Passaic County Jail in Paterson for the names of detainees,
who are housed in the jails under a contract with the immigration service. Jail
officials refused, and on Jan. 22 the civil liberties group filed a lawsuit in
State Superior Court in Hudson County. The suit cited state laws involving
public records, including one that requires that the names of county inmates and
their incarceration dates be made public.

"Essentially, what they told us was that they have a contract with the I.N.S.,
and the I.N.S. told them they cannot release them," said Deborah Jacobs,
executive director of the group's New Jersey chapter. "We're entitled under
three different state statutes to get it."

On Friday, the United States attorney for New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie,
notified the assignment judge in Hudson County, Arthur N. D'Italia, that his
office intended to join with Hudson and Passaic Counties in opposing the state
suit.

Mr. Christie's letter said the suit resembled the federal case, "in which the
United States asserted that the disclosure of information identifying the
detainees could jeopardize the ongoing federal law enforcement investigation,
threaten public safety and violate the privacy rights of the individuals
involved."

Mr. Christie also asked Judge D'Italia to delay a hearing scheduled for March 8
for three weeks, until March 29, to give his office more time to prepare. Ms.
Jacobs, the A.C.L.U. state director, said a delay would further violate the
detainees' rights.

State and federal offices were closed today for Presidents' Day, and the judge
could not be reached.

Michael Drewniak, a spokesman for Mr. Christie, would not comment on the state
suit, but he did say his office was coordinating its efforts with officials in
Washington.

Daniel Nelson, a Justice Department spokesman, said he had no information to
provide on the matter.

Sheriff Jerry Speziale of Passaic County, who runs the jail there, said he was
bound by contract with the immigration service not to divulge any information
about the 150 or so detainees housed in the 2,200-bed jail.

At least half of the detainees, he said, had nothing to do with Sept. 11. He
added that the statute that the civil liberties group had said required
publication of jail inmates' names did not apply to the detainees, since they
are not state inmates, he said.

"There's a misconception about these detainees," Sheriff Speziale said.

"A good portion of these detainees are what we call criminal aliens," he said.
"Are these people who came here to Disneyland and decided to stay and extra four
days? No."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 27, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Briefly Noted;
RULING ON DETAINEES

BYLINE:  By Steve Strunsky (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 105 words


A New Jersey judge ruled yesterday that the Hudson and Passaic County jails
should turn over the names and incarceration dates of immigration detainees held
there under contract with the federal government in the wake of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

The ruling, which the government plans to appeal, stems from a lawsuit filed in
January by the American Civil Liberties of New Jersey in State Superior Court,
after the government began detaining immigrants anonymously. A similar suit
against the government is pending in federal court, but the New Jersey group
sued the jails directly under state laws.   Steve Strunsky (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 30, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: IMMIGRATION;
Judge Rejects U.S. Policy of Secret Hearings

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 521 words


A federal judge in New Jersey yesterday rejected the government's policy of
holding only secret hearings for immigrants detained after Sept. 11.

The judge, John W. Bissell of United States District Court in Newark, said
deportation hearings could be closed on a case-by-case basis if the government
thought an open hearing would disclose sensitive information.

The decision was the third time that the Justice Department had failed to
convince a court that national security would be harmed by the disclosure of
information about the 1,200 Muslim immigrants arrested in the weeks after the
terrorist attacks.

The Justice Department was expected to ask for an immediate stayfrom the United
States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia.

The New Jersey lawsuit was filed by the American Civil Liberties Union; The New
Jersey Law Journal; and the North Jersey Media Group, which owns The Herald News
of West Paterson and other papers.

They argued that the government's blanket closing of deportation hearings
amounted to a violation of the detainees' due process rights and the public's
right to monitor the actions of government officials.

Essentially the same arguments have been made by newspapers and the civil rights
union in at least two other cases, one in federal court in Detroit that
challenged the secret hearings and the other in New Jersey state court
challenging the government's refusal to identify the Sept. 11 detainees.

In both cases, judges ruled against the government. The two cases are now before
appeals courts.

"This decision, like the Detroit decision, does not leave the government
powerless to close hearings where they believe there is sensitive information,"
said Lee Gelernt, a senior lawyer for the civil liberties union. "What the
decision does not permit the government to do is categorically close down every
immigration hearing from beginning to end, without specific evidence in an
individual case of why it must be secret."

The rulings may ultimately affect the cases of only a few dozen people still
thought to be in detention. Most of those arrested after the Sept. 11 attacks
have been deported or, in a few cases, have been released.

In nearly all cases, their names and the reasons for their arrests have never
been disclosed by the Justice Department or the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Government lawyers have argued that making that information public, as well as
opening their deportation hearings, would put the detainees at risk and
jeopardize terrorism investigations.

Deportation hearings normally are open to the public. But on Sept. 21, Michael
J. Creppy, the nation's chief immigration judge, issued an order barring the
press, the public and family members from attending hearings for those "special
interest" detainees arrested after the terrorist attacks.

Judge Creppy also ordered immigration courts to keep the hearing dates and
docket information secret.

In his ruling yesterday, Judge Bissell said he was not persuaded that closed
deportation hearings amounted to "an acceptable means of avoiding a compromise
of the government's investigation."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

ARTS ONLINE;
Within Walls and Memories: Dimensions of Detention

BYLINE:  By Matthew Mirapaul

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1183 words


When Jenny Polak began working on Varick Street in Lower Manhattan in 1996, she
was unaware that the nondescript building across the street from her new job was
a detention center for the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service.
She soon noticed that this was no ordinary office. For instance, when going out
for lunch, she said, "you would sometimes bump into a shackled guy being pulled
along."

Ms. Polak, a British artist living in New York, became so curious about what lay
behind those walls that, through contacts at immigrant-rights groups, she
solicited drawings of that building, the Varick Service Processing Center, and
other I.N.S. detention sites. Because these centers often prohibit the taking of
photographs, their interiors are rarely glimpsed by the public.

The rough sketches of floor plans she received, made by detained immigrants and
their visitors, were the starting point for "Hard Place," an unsettling new
digital-art project created by Ms. Polak during an artist residency at the Lower
East Side Tenement Museum. The artwork can be viewed on the museum's Internet
site, at tenement.org/HardPlace.

Disturbed by what she perceived as harsh conditions, Ms. Polak set out to share
her discoveries on the Internet. But rather than make a Web-based documentary
project like 360degrees.org, which realistically depicts prison cells and other
environments in the criminal-justice system, she decided to develop an online
artwork that would better advance her political agenda.

The first drawing of the inside of a detention center arrived anonymously by fax
in 2000. Others were delivered personally, on crumpled scraps of paper that had
been passed from hand to hand. Working from these crude blueprints, Ms. Polak
used an architectural software program to create virtual versions of 10
detention centers, including three in the New York region.

As depicted, they are windowless warrens of cramped cells, claustrophobic
corridors and drab common areas. For the most part they are shown without human
figures.

In an interview Ms. Polak was quick to note that, given her source material and
the restricted access to the detention centers, she cannot verify the
authenticity of her 3-D renderings. Nor is accuracy necessarily her aim.
Instead, she said, she is straddling "a fine line between actually presenting
plans of these places for everyone to see and saying it's people's memories,
it's a reconstruction of a nightmare."

Yet the renderings are accompanied by documentary materials that are clearly
meant to convey why detention sites have raised concerns among human-rights
groups. They complain that detained immigrants are deprived of their civil
rights and subjected to unpleasant conditions. (Immigration officials in New
York and Washington did not return calls for comment, and the man who answered
the phone at the Varick Street center would not say if it was still being used
for detainment.)

At "Hard Place," clicking on a keyhole icon, for instance, gives access to pages
of detention-center rules and other prisonlike procedures. One detainee sent a
sketch of handcuffed wrists raised in prayer. There are poignant audio clips,
one from another detainee who said: "I'm not a criminal. I didn't do anything
wrong. Why am I here? For what?"

Although Ms. Polak acquired drawings of only 10 sites, it took her more than a
year to collect them. One of her methods was to ask immigrant-rights groups to
send e-mail solicitations to the families of detainees. The mother of a detainee
in Louisiana passed the message to her son, who then mailed a package of
drawings and documents to Ms. Polak. In other cases detainees' lawyers would
slip sketches to Ms. Polak after a court hearing. But, she said, "mostly I was
told that people wouldn't be able to make these kinds of drawings with
impunity."

As one peers through successive keyholes, a grim reality emerges. Nina Felshin,
a curator at Wesleyan University, said, "The layered way in which her Web site
reveals information operates as a kind of structural metaphor for the layers of
secrecy that prevail within the executive branch of the U.S. government."

Ms. Polak, 44, is a London native who came to the United States in 1990 to study
at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan. She campaigned against 1996
immigration laws that led to the detention of hundreds of foreigners. "Hard
Place" was conceived in part as a reaction against that. "People should know
what it will mean for their neighbors if they are picked up by the I.N.S.," she
said, "It should not be sugared."

But the points that "Hard Place" was intended to make were not as likely to be
accepted after Sept. 11 and the adoption of broader government powers to detain
foreigners in the interest of national security. Ms. Polak's four-month Tenement
Museum residency began in October, when public opinion had become decidedly more
defensive about foreigners.

She remained undeterred. She said: "People got more scared. I got a bit more
scared myself. But it became even more pressing to get information out as people
were being herded away at such a rate." She and her Web designer, Lauren Gill,
plunged ahead.

Jeff Tancil, who runs the museum's artist-residency program, acknowledged that
the artwork was critical of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and its
treatment of foreigners. But so far the work "hasn't generated any controversy,"
he said. While that lack of controversy isn't disappointing, he said, "given the
reactions to Sept. 11, it's a little surprising."

Regardless of how one responds to the work's politics, Ms. Polak has cleverly
appropriated computer-aided design software for her own ends. Typically, such
programs are used to design glittering new buildings, and much has been made of
how these software tools have liberated architects from rectilinear shapes.
Historians also use the programs to reconstruct virtual versions of ancient
cities. For "Hard Place" Ms. Polak, who was trained as an architect and now
works as a graphic artist, did nothing more than use the software to put her
bleak houses in order.

Her approach is reminiscent of another online art site dealing with detainment.
In March the Library of Congress put 200 Ansel Adams photographs on the American
Memory section of its Web site: memory.loc .gov/ammem/aamhtml. The images were
taken in 1943 at the Manzanar War Relocation Center for Japanese-Americans.

Unlike Adams's landscape photographs, which are imbued with a divine light,
these images are closer to snapshots. Verna Curtis, the library's curator of
photography, said Adams donated the photographs in 1963 without restrictions as
to how they could be used, to make sure that the internment camps were not
forgotten. "This was a matter of conscience," she said.

With "Hard Place" Ms. Polak seems to have a similar motive. She said: "It makes
a lot of difference if the ordinary person, whose neighbor is of Muslim or Arab
origin, can see the netherworld that those people might be threatened with. The
whole business of 'we're so frightened of everybody' just has to be laid to
rest."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Hard Place" offers images of immigration service detention
centers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Announces Security Pact With Mexico

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, March 21


The White House announced a new border security accord with Mexico today
intended to weed out terrorists and smugglers but speed up legitimate goods and
travelers, many of whom now wait two hours or more to cross into the United
States.

President Bush previewed the announcement at a raucous, campaign-style airport
rally in this border city in his home state before leaving later in the day for
Monterrey, Mexico, for a conference on global aid to the poor. Mr. Bush is to
announce the "smart border" accord formally with President Vicente Fox of Mexico
in Monterrey on Friday.

"We want the legal commerce, the people who travel back and forth on a daily
basis, the brothers and sisters on both sides of the border, the relatives that
have been coming back and forth for years, to be able to do so in an efficient
and easy way," Mr. Bush said to hundreds of cheering civilians and troops from
nearby Fort Bliss in a packed airport hangar.

But he added that "we want to use our technology to make sure that we weed out
those who we don't want in our country -- the terrorists, the coyotes, the
smugglers, those who prey on innocent life."

Coyotes is the term used for people who illegally smuggle immigrants across the
border.

The new accord, similar to one between the United States and Canada announced in
December, would expand the use of high technology on the 1,951-mile United
States-Mexico border. Regular cross-border commuters would be issued an
electronic pass, as would some short-haul truckers. That would free border
guards to spend more time inspecting suspicious people and goods, White House
officials said.

None of the 19 hijackers who commandeered the planes on Sept. 11 are known to
have entered the United States through Canada or Mexico, but worries over the
security of the borders intensified after the attacks.

"I want this border to be modern," Mr. Bush said in El Paso. "I want it to have
the very best technology. I don't want it to be a neglected part of our
country."

Money for the new technology and security would come from $40 billion in
emergency spending that Congress approved last year after the attacks. The White
House estimated that $1 billion of that $40 billion would be spent on border
security. In addition, Mr. Bush said that he was asking Congress for $5 billion
more for airport and border security as part of a $27 billion emergency request
that his administration sent to Capitol Hill today. If approved, White House
officials estimated the additional amount to be spent on border security at $50
million.

After his speech, Mr. Bush toured a United States Customs Service cargo dock
where he saw some of the new technology in use. Inside a three-story structure,
Mr. Bush watched the demonstration of an X-ray machine, similar to a giant CAT
scan, that is used for inspecting trucks for contraband. "Very interesting," Mr.
Bush said. Customs officials said that the machine could inspect 10 trucks an
hour.

Mr. Bush is to leave Monterrey on Saturday morning for Lima, Peru, despite a
bombing that killed nine people on Wednesday night near the American Embassy
there.

"You bet I am going," Mr. Bush said in the Oval Office moments before he left
the White House this morning. "You know, two-bit terrorists aren't going to
prevent me from doing what we need to do, and that is to promote our friendship
in the hemisphere."

White House officials said they had spoken with security personnel in Peru and
had determined that it was safe for Mr. Bush to travel.

At Andrews Air Force Base, Mr. Bush, his wife, Laura, and Colin L. Powell, the
secretary of state, met with the family of two Americans killed last weekend in
a church bombing in Islamabad, Pakistan. Mr. Bush and his wife spoke with Milton
Green, the director of the computer section at the American Embassy in
Islamabad, and his young son. The Americans killed were Mr. Green's wife,
Barbara Green, and her daughter, Kristen Wormsley, a senior at the American
school. Mrs. Green was an employee in the human resources center at the embassy.

The father and son, Mr. Bush said, "lost a wife and a mother when they were
going to church, when they were praying to the Almighty God." Mr. Bush added
that "this is a dangerous world" and "too many people are losing their lives to
murderers."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush watched a demonstration in El Paso yesterday by a
customs inspector, Irma Banks, of how a truck is checked for contraband.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Help Us All

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 171 words


To the Editor:

Re "House Passes Immigrant Bill to Aid Mexico" (front page, March 13): America's
economy relies heavily on immigrant workers to pick crops and do other hard
essential labor where the supply of local workers is inadequate. Unions now
support legalizing the status of undocumented workers so that they will not
depress wages for all low-skilled laborers.

Hispanic immigration, overwhelmingly Mexican, has immensely benefited our
economy in Georgia. Without the thousands arriving at peak ages for maximum
labor output, scores of poultry plants, construction companies, hotels, farms,
meatpacking plants and other businesses would have closed or relocated. Also,
Hispanic buying power has tripled since 1990 as a growing number of immigrants
have bought homes and opened businesses.

The many benefits of immigration need to be emphasized, as well as the
drawbacks. I hope that the Senate will pass the House bill.

(Rev.) JOSEPH A. FAHY
Atlanta, March 13, 2002

The writer is Hispanic apostolate, Archdiocese of Atlanta.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 21, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Americas: Mexico: People Smugglers Charged In Deaths

BYLINE:  By Tim Weiner (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 78 words


Federal prosecutors filed charges against 11 accused smugglers who left 14
Mexicans to die in the Arizona desert last year.

The organized-crime indictments against seven men and four women followed a raid
and arrests in the Mexican border town of Nogales. Mexican officials said the
group abandoned 25 migrants on May 23, 2001, near Yuma, Ariz. Only 11 survived.
The 14 deaths were the most ever recorded in a single border crossing in
Arizona.   Tim Weiner (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 12, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 145 words


To the Editor:

That "Immigration Cut Into Income in New York, Census Finds" (front page, Aug.
6) should not puzzle demographers. In any model of capitalism, one finds that
when production is up and the costs associated with labor rise, capitalists
favor a surplus of labor to keep capital's costs down.

The floodgates of immigration are opened up enough to make a labor surplus so
labor costs can recede to an acceptable level.

The 2000 census merely reflects the influx of immigrant surplus labor to
neighborhoods that will absorb them. The hard part is to chronicle these
neighborhoods during the period in which economic expansion ends and capitalism
no longer needs the reserve army of poor.

Resentment of immigrants usually follows, and our system attempts to denigrate
or discard those it once needed to fill lower-paying jobs.

DENNIS DALRYMPLE
New York, Aug. 6, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

2nd Man Gets 25-Year Term For Beating Mexican Laborers

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y., Jan. 9


A Queens man was sentenced today to 25 years in prison for joining a friend in
the attempted murder of two Mexican day laborers in September 2000, closing a
case that drew national attention to the long-brewing tensions over Long
Island's immigrant workers.

The man, Ryan D. Wagner, 20, and his accomplice, Christopher Slavin, 30, were
convicted after separate trials last year. Juries found that they had lured the
day laborers to an abandoned building with the promise of work, then attacked
them with digging tools and a knife.

While some immigrant advocates believe that the brutality of the beatings forced
anti-immigrant groups to tone down their message, people on both sides of the
immigration debate said today that little had changed since the attack. Men
still wait by the side of the road hoping for work mowing lawns or laying
bricks, and residents who accuse them of littering, loitering and taking jobs
away from American citizens are still angry about their presence.

"It just puts a big chapter behind us in terms of the worst that can happen, but
the root cause and the issues still haven't gone away," said Edward Hernandez, a
spokesman for the Brookhaven Citizens for Peaceful Solutions, an immigrants
advocate.

The Suffolk County district attorney's office used the same arguments and
evidence to convict Mr. Slavin and Mr. Wagner, who were charged with acting in
concert, meaning that each was responsible for the actions of the other. But the
trials were starkly different.

Mr. Slavin remained silent throughout his trial, his lawyer making a case by
poking holes in prosecutors' evidence. Mr. Wagner, by contrast, confessed in
written and videotaped statements and on the witness stand that he had intended
to beat up but not to kill the men, Israel Perez Arvizu and Magdaleno Estrada
Escamilla, and that he had been motivated by sheer rage rather than a hatred for
Mexicans. He said he had acted in self-defense when he repeatedly stabbed Mr.
Perez.

He said he was under the influence of drugs and alcohol during the attack, which
he said was proposed by Mr. Slavin, who is 10 years older. Mr. Wagner expressed
regret in newspaper interviews, on the witness stand and even today in a note he
read before his sentencing.

"I have great remorse for what I did," Mr. Wagner read, sobbing.

But Judge Stephen L. Braslow of Suffolk County Court was not convinced.

"You were sorry and remorseful after you got caught, Mr. Wagner," Judge Braslow
said. "For you to hate like that at 19 years old is beyond my ability to put in
words."

Mr. Wagner, like Mr. Slavin, was given the maximum sentence for all six counts
and allowed to serve the sentences concurrently. He was fined $22,000.

Mr. Wagner's mother, Arleen, screamed at Judge Braslow, calling the sentence
harsh and contrasting it with his decision this week to sentence a man who
pleaded guilty to sexually abusing a child to one year in prison. "You put my
son away for the rest of his life," she cried. "What's the matter with you?"

Mr. Wagner plans to appeal the ruling, said his lawyer, Thomas F. Liotti, who
accused prosecutors of being overly zealous. "There has to be some reason
applied when you're dealing with a 19-year-old who made a mistake," he said.

But the Suffolk County district attorney, Thomas J. Spota III, said he hoped the
sentence would deter similar crimes.

"Every defendant says he's sorry and wishes he didn't do it as an afterthought,"
Mr. Spota said. "The problem is that he wasn't sorry at the time he committed
the crime."

Mr. Wagner and Mr. Slavin face a class-action civil rights lawsuit filed on
behalf of the victims in September in federal district court in Brooklyn.

Meanwhile, immigrants' advocates and groups opposing illegal immigration are
looking to Washington for answers.

Nadia L. Marin-Molina, executive director of the Workplace Project, a group that
works with day laborers, said, "the attack certainly made them more afraid, but
it didn't change their need to go and look for work."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arleen Wagner, whose son, Ryan Wagner, was sentenced to 25 years
for the attempted murder of two day laborers, called the penalty harsh. (Gordon
M. Grant for the New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ideas & Trends;
The Rube Goldberg Agency

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


ONLY at the Immigration and Naturalization Service could the task of
streamlining the agency fall to an official recently named to be "assistant
deputy executive associate commissioner for immigration services."

In a bureaucracy that would have driven Rube Goldberg mad, the title aptly
symbolizes the hapless agency's problems.

The recent disclosure that an I.N.S. service contractor mailed out visa
extensions earlier this month for two of the dead Sept. 11 hijackers has renewed
calls to abolish the I.N.S. and split up its various functions. But many
immigration experts say that what America really needs isn't an amalgam of
smaller agencies, but something radically different.

They envision a cabinet-level agency of immigration affairs, able to track
foreigners electronically from the moment they apply for a visa to the day they
leave the United States or become citizens. This new agency would consolidate
tasks currently assigned to many different federal agencies: issuing visas
(State Department), inspecting people at airports (I.N.S.), patrolling the
shoreline (Coast Guard), certifying the need for foreign workers (Labor
Department), helping refugees resettle in America (Health and Human Services).

"It would be a whole migration affairs agency that would be responsible for
what's ultimately an international process with distinct domestic features,"
said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an
immigrant advocacy group.

Mr. Sharry, a liberal, is joined by conservatives like Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which has advocated restrictions
on immigration. In this case, Mr. Krikorian said, bigger government could be
better.

"The consular offices overseas, for instance, are America's other border
patrol," Mr. Krikorian said. "Properly screening visitors before they get here
is far more effective than chasing around after people once we let them in."

The way in which the United States currently handles foreigners almost
guarantees failure. Only after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, for example, did
I.N.S. inspectors at airports and border crossings gain access to the State
Department's consular database, which can help prevent foreigners with altered
visas from slipping into the country illegally.

The structure of the I.N.S. also works against it. Its 33 district directors run
their regions like fiefs, often ignoring orders from headquarters in Washington.

"The commissioner's office is very weak right now," Mr. Sharry said.

The I.N.S. still has computers that don't talk to each other, and when the new
commissioner of immigration and naturalization, James W. Ziglar, arrived on the
job seven months ago, he said he was shocked to learn that boxloads of paperwork
typically sat around for weeks before they were sent to a contractor for
processing.

Of course, actually creating a vast new Washington bureaucracy is highly
unlikely; other federal agencies will certainly resist losing parts of their
portfolio and budgets. So far, the Bush administration has been willing to let
Mr. Ziglar try to revamp the agency by separating its enforcement and service
duties. Still, President Bush appears likely to approve a proposal from his
domestic defense advisers to merge the Customs Service and the enforcement
functions of the I.N.S. into a new unit that would exert tighter control over
who and what comes into the country.

Any plan to reshape the I.N.S. will ultimately require Congressional approval,
and Congress seems to be leaning toward abolishing the I.N.S. -- as well as Mr.
Ziglar's job. The leading proposals would divide immigration enforcement and
service functions under the direction of an associate attorney general for
immigration affairs, who would be the third-ranking official at the Justice
Department.

Critics say this approach would divorce functions that are inextricably linked.
Immigration inspectors at airports, for instance, are the first line of defense
against potential terrorists, but they are also the first officials a foreigner
seeking asylum deals with.

Senior Republicans and Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee, who rarely
agree on anything, joined forces last week to endorse legislation to break up
the I.N.S. The committee will vote on the measure on April 10, with the full
House expected to take up the legislation soon after.

Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who heads the Congressional
Immigration Reform Caucus, says the United States should freeze the number of
legal immigrants allowed into the country each year at 300,000, down from nearly
1 million, to allow the new agency to reduce mounting backlogs.

Aside from increased efficiency and courteous service, however, there is no
consensus on the primary mission of any new immigration agency.

"The immigrant community is pushing for better service," said Therese McAuliffe,
a former immigration official who is now a senior House Republican aide.
"Constituents in border communities are concerned about illegal migration.
Business is worried about the flow of commerce, of people and goods. And now
there's a new layer, the fear of terrorism."

"That's a hard mix of people to please," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexicans at the El Paso, Tex., border station. (Christ Chavez
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 20, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Apparel Maker in Samoa Is Told to Pay Workers $3.5 Million

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 570 words


A court in American Samoa has ordered an apparel company there to pay $3.5
million to hundreds of Chinese and Vietnamese workers who were sometimes paid
just $2.25 an hour and were illegally charged thousands of dollars to obtain
their jobs.

In a ruling on Tuesday, the High Court of Samoa described widespread
minimum-wage violations and harsh conditions at the factory, owned by a company
called Daewoosa.

The court found that the workers, who had been promised free room and board,
often had to sleep two to a single bed in the factory dormitory, that they were
sometimes deprived of food and that they were beaten by company guards for
returning to the dormitories after a company-imposed curfew.

The High Court awarded an average of $13,000 to the 270 workers in a case that
deeply embarrassed American Samoa, a United States territory that had sought to
attract garment factories and immigrant workers. American Samoa is about 2,300
miles south of Hawaii.

For the workers, $13,000 is more than twice what many of them earned each year
at the Daewoosa factory, which made sportswear for retailers in the United
States and elsewhere.

"We feel very vindicated," said Virginia Lynn Sudbury, a lawyer for the
immigrant workers. "These workers have gone through a horrible ordeal."

Fearing that Daewoosa might not have the assets to pay the judgment, Ms. Sudbury
said she might seek payment from two Vietnamese recruiting companies that the
court also held liable.

Marie Lafaele, the lawyer for the factory, which closed 15 months ago, said she
would decide on an appeal after talking with the factory's principal owner,
Kil-Soo Lee.

"I will just say that I had some due-process concerns throughout the trial," Ms.
Lafaele said.

In a twist, Mr. Lee, a South Korean citizen, has been charged in a federal
indictment with holding the workers in involuntary servitude through threats and
confiscating passports and return plane tickets. Mr. Lee, who faces trial in
Hawaii, has maintained his innocence.

The federal indictment quoted a factory manager who said Mr. Lee had ordered him
and several subordinates to began a melee with protesting workers, causing one
of the workers to lose an eye.

In a 90-page ruling, Associate Justice Lyle L. Richmond wrote, "Weary of endless
months of fighting for their basic wages and frightened of Lee, many of the
Vietnamese workers requested that they be returned to Vietnam."

The court found that many of the workers' contracts called for pay of $2.25 an
hour, even though the minimum wage in American Samoa is $2.60 an hour, about
half that of the mainland. Daewoosa often skirted laws requiring time-and-a-half
pay for overtime, the court said, by demanding special reimbursements on room
and board to offset those payments.

The court also found that Daewoosa and several recruiting companies had
illegally charged the immigrants $3,000 to $7,700 to obtain their jobs. One
Vietnamese worker even sold her house to pay the fee.

Many weeks, the court wrote, Daewoosa failed to pay workers, and then fired and
deported employees who went to court to seek back pay. Once when the employees
refused to work until they were paid, the company withheld food for two days.

On another occasion, the court said, when the Department of Labor reached a
settlement in which Daewoosa agreed to pay back wages, company officials forced
the workers to return the money by threatening to have them deported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 8, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Midwest: Michigan: A Push For More Workers

BYLINE:  By John Carpenter (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 57 words


A group of seasonal Michigan businesses that rely on foreign workers for summer
staff is suing the Immigration and Naturalization Service over delays in
processing temporary work visas since the Sept. 11 attacks. The 13 companies
filing suit are on the shores of the Great Lakes and include hotels and
restaurants.   John Carpenter (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business;
As the Tech Economy Goes, So Go Special Visas

BYLINE:  By RICK GREEN

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 728 words


ONE of the last remaining bubbles of the high-technology boom has burst.

Applications by foreign workers for long-term H-1B work visas plunged by nearly
half in the first six months of the government's fiscal year, according to new
data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Perhaps more significant,
approvals of the visas fell by more than one-third. The H-1B, granted to highly
skilled foreigners to help fill jobs when no qualified Americans can be found,
has been an important recruiting tool for technology companies.

The decline has not, however, quieted critics of the H-1B program, who say it
was used during more prosperous times to displace American citizens with
foreigners willing to work for less money. Now that companies are laying off
workers, the critics contend, there is no reason to import labor. Congress, they
say, should lower the ceiling on the number of H-1B visas granted.

Supporters of the program say the quota should remain the same, because more
imported workers will be needed when the economy heats up again.

The H-1B visas, which are work permits good for up to six years, are given to
professionals with four-year degrees and specialized skills. They are coveted
both by employers and would-be immigrants because the visas are ideally suited
for long-term work projects and often serve as a first step toward permanent
residence status.

H-1B's were in such short supply a few years ago that employers pressed Congress
to raise the ceiling to 115,000 in 1999, from 65,000 the year before. It was
raised again, to 195,000, in 2001. But the new cap is unlikely to be reached
this year.

Halfway through this fiscal year, only 105,800 applications had been filed for
visas covered by the cap, said the I.N.S., down 48 percent from the first six
months of fiscal 2001. Approval was given to 44,900, down 38 percent.

"The H-1B numbers have finally caught up with the economy," said Mark D.
Shevitz, director of marketing at VisaNow.com, an immigration processing service
based in Chicago that tracks I.N.S. data.

In 2000 and 2001, the supply of H-1B visas was exhausted in a matter of months.

The government figures are not complete, focusing only on applicants who count
against the annual cap. Not included are certain exempt workers with unique
knowledge, such as scientists working at national research institutes. The
comparisons were also skewed by a large number of extra applications in 2001 as
employers hurried to beat an I.N.S. fee increase.

Nevertheless, it is clear to immigration experts that economic weakness has put
a damper on demand for foreign workers. Business is down at many technology
companies, which accounted for more than half of all H-1B employees in previous
years.

Instead, companies are more likely to hire laid-off United States citizens. For
foreigners, that means it is no longer good enough to be merely well-educated.

"It definitely lessens the demand for the cookie-cutter H-1B," said Daryl R.
Buffenstein, general counsel for the American Immigration Lawyers Association in
Washington.

Economic weakness or not, said Theresa Cardinal Brown, director of immigration
policy at the Chamber of Commerce in Washington, American universities are still
not producing enough advanced mathematics and science graduates, so employers
must look overseas.

Critics of the H-1B program are not so sure. "You can't convince me there's not
a U.S. citizen available," said Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of
Colorado, who introduced a bill in November to roll back the H-1B ceiling to the
1998 level of 65,000.

Mr. Tancredo and some labor advocates say employers are merely using the visas
to import cheaper workers. He pointed to Qwest Communications, based in Denver,
which he said had been hiring foreign workers in the last two years even as it
was eliminating more than 10,000 jobs.

Chris Hardman, a Qwest spokesman, declined to say how many H-1B workers the
company employed, or whether it was hiring new ones. "We hire the most qualified
person for the position," he said, adding that Qwest is training American
workers to reduce reliance on foreign specialists.

Mr. Tancredo conceded that his bill would probably never come to a vote, but
said he hoped to create pressure that would prevent the program from expanding.
The ceiling is scheduled to revert to 65,000 in 2004 unless Congress acts
sooner.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Tom Tancredo wants the number of H-1B visas
rolled back to 1998 levels so that Americans can get jobs that have been going
to foreign workers. (Associated Press) Chart: "Staying Home"Fewer foreigners are
applying for special visas intended for highly skilled workers. Graph tracks
H-1B visa applications received by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
fiscal years ended September from 2000 through first two quarters of
2002.(Source: VisaNow.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2001 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

With War in the Air, Home's but a Dream;
Mexican Migrants, Fearing Impenetrable Border, Are Staying Put

BYLINE:   By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: HOLBROOK, N.Y., Sept. 27


The Mexicans here are holding their fingers into the winds of war. If they are
gauging it correctly, this year's Christmas is shaping up to be a lonely and
indigent one.

Normally, the migrant men who work illegally on Long Island's East End would be
making travel plans. The summer construction and landscaping jobs are drying up,
and the holidays are approaching. This is the time they begin drifting back to
Mexico with money orders in their wallets and chocolates for their women.

But the ambushes on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on Sept. 11 have
changed all that. Word from the southern frontier is that there is now an almost
impenetrable wall of federal agents on both sides of the border guarding against
terrorists determined to sneak into the United States.

In this atmosphere of high anxiety, illegal workers say they believe that if
they go home now, they have little chance of returning later.

To make matters worse, the Mexicans say, if the attacks have socked the American
economy, then they have pummeled the already anemic Mexican job market.

"It's like living in purgatory," said Lorenzo Castillo, 53, a former tenant
farmer from central Mexico who walked the desert for two days last spring to
make his way to Farmingville, a small Long Island town about an hour and a
half's drive east of Manhattan where illegal immigration has sparked crackling
tensions. Farmingville is still a place where a man can make $10 an hour raking
another man's leaves.

"I want to go home," Mr. Castillo said. "But I can't go home. I haven't made
enough money. And if I go, will they arrest me? Or if I come back, will they
arrest me then? I can't take the chance. I'm staying here for the winter."

In fact, only 3 of the 15 men who sleep and eat in a small, well-kept house here
said they would risk the return home. Eduardo Cervantes arrived in April after
being robbed in the desert. The work has run out and he has saved enough money,
he said. Besides, he has not met a Mexican woman since he moved to the suburbs.
Javier Santillan wants to see his wife. Mario Huerta is a new father who has yet
to lay eyes upon his child.

They will take the chance, they said. The others will wait.

This appears to be the trend nationwide, said an official with the United States
Border Patrol, who offered his expertise on the condition that he not be named.

"We're counting less footprints on the dirt roads around the border and we're
apprehending fewer people," the official said. "My gut feeling is no one is
moving anywhere. The Mexican economy is in the dumps and there is a feeling of
insecurity among those men."

Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, came to the United States less than a month
ago, lobbying Congress and the American people for the legalization of some of
the 3.5 million Mexicans working here unlawfully.

But with the terrorist attacks, the Mexican workers who had hoped for an
immigration amnesty just three weeks ago now say they believe that the
discussion is dead.

"The border is going to be tougher than I've ever seen it," said Lalo Cervantes,
38, who has drifted around the United States for 18 years making his living.
"But closing it down is the correct thing to do at a time like this. The
Mexicans here are just going to have to do what they have to do."

Miguel Escobar, the Mexican consul in Douglas, Ariz., said the lines at the
legitimate crossing points into the United States are long and the checks are
exhaustive as a consequence of the attacks.

Moreover, Mr. Escobar said, the Mexican government has added agents along the
border in an effort to close the porous points where illegal immigrants
routinely cross. Agents now rummage through the guest houses where people wait
to be walked across the border by guides for a $1,000 fee.

"We have more people at the federal, state and local levels working the border,
and it is paying off," Mr. Escobar said. "For example, 13 men from Yemen were
apprehended last Saturday in Agua Prieta, just across from Douglas."

None of the men in the Long Island house has any desire to spend the holidays in
an immigration detention cell.

But, while there was work at the beginning of the construction season for anyone
who wanted to stand on the street corners and battle for it, on any given day
now, a quarter of these migrant workers stand idle.

"Things just aren't as abundant as they were," Lalo Cervantes said. "But this
won't discourage the men. We have too many ties to this country now."

In the aftermath of the attacks, some of these men drove to Manhattan to help in
rescue efforts. They carried buckets on their backs and distributed food in the
shelters. And in the front of the Mexicans' house here is a sign torn apart by
the wind. It reads: "America We Are With You."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2001



CORRECTION: A front-page article in The Metro Section yesterday about Mexican
migrant workers described their lonely and indigent lives on the East End of
Long Island and their fear that antiterrorism measures would result in border
shutdowns and strand them in this country. The article was illustrated with a
photograph of a man in a house shared by 15 Mexicans. He wore a sombrero
emblazoned with a Spanish vulgarism. The choice of picture evoked an ethnic
stereotype, and the publication of the vulgarism violated The Times's standards.
The picture should not have appeared.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Armando Perez at a house on Long Island shared by 15 migrant
Mexicans, some of whom helped in rescue efforts. A sign outside reads: "America
We Are With You." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Of 15 Mexican
immigrants sharing a house on Long Island, just 3 said they would try going home
this winter. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. D2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 23, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gephardt Is Preparing a Measure to Legalize Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22


Seeking advantage in the contest for the political allegiance of Hispanics,
House Democrats are preparing legislation that would grant permanent residency
status to millions of illegal immigrants.

Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, told a
meeting of Hispanic activists in Miami today that he would soon propose
legislation to allow illegal immigrants with a work history in this country to
qualify for residency. Aides said the measure would probably be introduced in
September.

"Our proposal will bring undocumented immigrants out of the shadows and into the
light of accountability and greater cooperation in our fight against terrorism,"
Mr. Gephardt told about 3,000 applauding people at the annual meeting of the
National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic organization, The Associated Press
reported.

Given the growing importance of the Hispanic vote, both Democrats and President
Bush last year talked about enabling illegal workers to qualify for permanent
status, but the issue lost momentum in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks and
new concern about border security. Mr. Gephardt's comments show that Democrats
intend to revive it before the November elections.

Dan Stein, the leader of a group that has opposed increased immigration, accused
Mr. Gephardt of "pandering" for ethnic votes and said that even discussion of
such proposals could stimulate illegal immigration by people who hoped to be in
the country to take advantage of such a program.

"These guys just want to give away green cards for votes basically without any
kind of preventative strategy," said Mr. Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform.

"It is irresponsible, and I don't see what is in it for the American people," he
said of the proposal.

Under the Democratic plan taking shape, illegal immigrants who have been in the
United States for five years and have held jobs for at least two years would be
able to apply for permanent residency status.

Applicants would be subject to criminal background checks. Those who fail could
be deported.

It is unclear how many of an estimated eight million illegal immigrants,
including more than three million from Mexico, might be eligible for such a
program.

The last major program allowing illegal immigrants to gain legitimate status
came under a 1986 law signed by President Ronald Reagan. About three million
people from various nations qualified, and many are now citizens.

House aides said the program of "earned legalization" would be governed by an
effective date -- January 2002, for example -- that would eliminate an incentive
for new immigration. People who entered the country after that date would not be
eligible.

Authors are also considering a provision that would allow some current workers
who have lived less than five years in the country to qualify later.

In his remarks, Mr. Gephardt said the intent was to "recognize the hard work" of
immigrants who have contributed to the economy and have not run afoul of the
law.

A Congressional aide said the program was not intended for someone who "has been
here a year and is hanging out on the street corner."

"This is people who may have been involved in the rebuilding of the Pentagon,"
the aide said.

Because Republicans control the legislative agenda in the House, and many of
them strongly oppose the idea on the grounds that it rewards illegal behavior,
it is unlikely that any far-reaching plan would advance this year. Before Sept.
11, President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico were negotiating a
legalization plan, but that effort stalled with the administration's shift in
priorities.

Mr. Stein said public support for tougher control over immigration, along with
the uncertain economic outlook, would work against approval of any sweeping
plan.

"No proposal that does not at least generate the appearance of future control
has a prayer," he said, adding that Democrats risk alienating some of their own
voters in pushing for a wide legalization program.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Passes Immigrant Bill To Aid Mexico

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12


The House passed a bill tonight that would allow tens of thousands of Mexicans
now living illegally in the United States to obtain visas here without returning
to Mexico to file applications, as they would ordinarily have to do.

House leaders, with strong support from the Bush administration, said Congress
must swiftly approve the measure as a gesture of good will toward Mexico.
President Bush plans to visit Mexico next week to meet with the Mexican
president, Vicente Fox.

The Senate previously voted for a similar provision, but it is unclear whether
the Senate will pass the House measure before Mr. Bush travels to Mexico next
week.

Employers, including hotels and restaurants and other service industries,
lobbied for extension of the law permitting immigrants to obtain visas in this
country. If immigrants working here were forced to leave the United States, many
businesses would be severely disrupted, immigration lawyers said.

The debate in the House today exposed a rift in the Republican Party between
those who want to restrict immigration more and those who want to court Hispanic
voters by addressing their concerns and making it easier for people to
immigrate. Mr. Bush and his political advisers are in the second camp.

The House approved the bill by a vote of 275 to 137. Supporters of the
legislation mustered just one vote more than the two-thirds majority they needed
to pass the measure under a special procedure that limited debate and barred
amendments.

Ninety-two Republicans voted for the bill, while 123 opposed it. By contrast,
182 Democrats voted for the measure, while 13 voted against it. The two
independents in the House split their votes.

The bill would temporarily extend a provision of federal law that allows certain
noncitizens to apply for immigrant visas, or "green cards," while residing in
this country. To obtain such benefits, the immigrants must already qualify for
visas sought on their behalf by close relatives or employers in the United
States.

The legislation would benefit immigrants who have, at some point, fallen out of
legal status. They may, for example, have overstayed their visas, worked in this
country without permission or failed to take the courses required of foreign
students.

While the bill could help people from any country, Mexicans might be the largest
group of beneficiaries. When Mr. Fox visited the United States in September, he
urged Congress to expand guest worker programs and grant legal rights to
millions of undocumented Mexican immigrants -- not just those who could qualify
under the House bill.

Supporters of the bill, including Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House
Republican leader, and Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, said
today that it would promote the reunification of families.

"The bill sends a message to the world that our country will be a beacon to all
who love freedom and the opportunity to live, work and raise a family," Mr.
Armey said.

While most Democrats voted for the legislation, they said it did not go far
enough. The House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, and the
chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Terry McAuliffe, said Democrats
supported permanent extension of the provision that has allowed many people to
obtain immigrant visas here, without going back home. The provision is widely
known by its legal citation, Section 245(i) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act.

Critics of the legislation said it would reward lawbreakers and jeopardize
national security. The leader of the opposition, Representative Tom Tancredo,
Republican of Colorado, said the bill would "invite future terrorists to exploit
lax enforcement of the immigration laws."

Supporters and opponents of the legislation disagreed on whether it would
provide amnesty for illegal immigrants. Representative Christopher B. Cannon,
Republican of Utah, who supported the bill, said: "This is no amnesty. Section
245(i) benefits a limited pool of people who have already been determined to be
eligible for permanent legal residence based on their family or employment
relationships. The issue is not whether these immigrants are eligible or not,
but where they may apply."

But Mr. Tancredo said, "The only reason we are here today is to provide amnesty
for people here illegally," and he predicted that millions of people would
apply.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the Wisconsin Republican who is
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said, "No one will be entirely
satisfied with the compromise" allowing some immigrants to apply for visas while
in the United States.

The number of beneficiaries would be limited by the eligibility criteria. A
person seeking a visa based on a family relationship must show that the
relationship existed before Aug. 15, 2001. The spouse of a United States citizen
would thus be ineligible unless the marriage occurred before that date.

Likewise, a noncitizen seeking an immigrant visa based on employment would have
to show that the employer applied for labor certification before Aug. 15, 2001.

More than 500,000 undocumented immigrants were eligible for legal status under a
previous extension of Section 245(i), but the White House said that 200,000 of
them did not meet the deadline for the program, which ended on April 30, 2001.
Under the House bill, the deadline would be extended to Nov. 30 of this year or
to the date four months after the government issues rules for the new program,
whichever is earlier.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 6, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A Card Allows U.S. Banks To Aid Mexican Immigrants

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 5


Before migrating illegally to the United States, many Mexicans throw away
various forms of personal identification in an effort to avoid prosecution if
caught by United States authorities. Recently, they have found an unexpected
ally in their struggle to regain a legal identity once they are across the
border: United States banks.

For years, the banks had refused service to most Mexican immigrants because they
could not verify their identities. But an unforeseen twist to an initiative by
Mexico's government has allowed banks in the United States to court the millions
of undocumented Mexican immigrants and the billions of dollars they represent.

After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the Mexican government feared that the
estimated 3.5 million Mexican citizens in the United States who had no
identification -- no passport, Social Security card or driver's license -- could
be mistaken for terrorists. It began lobbying the United States government to
recognize as a valid piece of identification a consular identification card that
it has been issuing for more than a decade.

Although the United States government has not agreed to accept the consular ID
card, the card has been gaining legitimacy elsewhere. Los Angeles County and the
City of Chicago recognize it, for instance, as do many police departments. And
much to the surprise of Mexico's government, the cards have been opening the
doors into -- and for -- the banking world.

Mexico's government hopes that with access to banks, its citizens will find
cheaper vehicles than money-transfer businesses for sending billions of dollars
in remittances to relatives back home. United States banks hope to reach out to
the large and growing number of Hispanics, who are expected to surpass blacks as
the largest minority group in the United States by 2005.

"If we're to be successful and continue to grow, we're going to have to become
the bank of choice for the Hispanic community," said Jeffrey Bierer, a spokesman
for Bank of America. Undocumented Mexican immigrants, he said, make up a large
chunk of that community.

"It is a significant market now," he said. "It's growing every year."

The bank, which has most of its franchises in states with large populations of
Mexican immigrants, like California, Texas and Florida, has recently introduced
a $40 million advertising campaign aimed at Spanish-speaking customers. It is
one of some 60 banks nationwide, mostly in Hispanic communities, that have begun
catering to illegal immigrants, who often gain legal residence and become loyal
customers.

The consular ID card "is a form of identification that the private sector finds
acceptable," said John Byrne, senior counsel and compliance manager at the
American Bankers Association. "We feel fairly comfortable" with the consular ID
"as a form of identification, and we're becoming more comfortable the more we
speak" with the United States government, he said.

Though the federal government has not officially sanctioned the card, it has not
spoken against its increased use across the country. But the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has warned that the ID should not be mistaken as a
security blanket for illegal immigrants.

"The bottom line is that if these people, regardless of whether they have bank
accounts -- and they could be big accounts -- if they are not legally here,
they're still not legally here," said Bill Strassberger, an I.N.S. spokesman in
Washington.

But because banks must prove only the identity of their customers, not the
legality of their immigration status, the ID card has helped the banks pursue a
mostly untapped market.

"Right now it's like a landslide -- the bankers come to us," said Enrique
Berruga, under secretary for foreign affairs in Mexico's foreign ministry. "It's
very good news for the American banking industry that all that money that was
under the mattress is now in their arteries and their financial systems."

Mr. Berruga said that the 18 million legal and illegal Mexican immigrants in the
United States represent at least $450 billion in purchasing power, an amount
that is roughly 70 percent of Mexico's gross domestic product.

Much of this money makes its way back to Mexico in the form of remittances,
which have steadily increased over the last decade. Mexico's central bank
expects the figure to surpass $10 billion this year, meaning that it will soon
eclipse tourism as Mexico's second-largest source of foreign revenue, after oil
exports.

The Mexican government believes that remittances have become a permanent fixture
of its relationship with the United States, a relationship that it increasingly
defines along business terms -- the United States' demand for cheap labor and
Mexico's plentiful supply of it.

"These people might be our single most important economic partner in the world,"
Mr. Berruga said.

Although only a small portion of United States banks have begun accepting the
consular ID card, many of the largest institutions are leading the way.

Wells Fargo, which is based in San Francisco, was the first bank to accept the
consular ID, and in six months it opened more than 30,000 bank accounts for
previously undocumented immigrants. It has a money transfer service and plans to
offer credit cards and mortgages to those presenting the card.

Citibank, after recently spending $12.5 billion to buy Banamex, one of Mexico's
largest banks, now accepts the consular ID as a way to increase its Mexican
customers on both sides of the border.

This is good news for President Vicente Fox, who, before the terrorist attacks,
had hoped to reach an immigration agreement with the United States to bring
Mexican immigrants "out of the shadows." Though he has not been able to gain
political recognition for his citizens, he has achieved at least some
acknowledgment of them through the banks.

"I never thought I'd be a market advocate," said Manuel Orozco, a researcher at
the Inter-American Dialogue, a hemispheric research group in Washington. "But
Mexican immigrants find that for the immediate relief of their basic needs,
their best ally is the market."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: People waited outside the Mexican consulate's office in Chicago
on June 20 after the Chicago City Council approved a consular identification
card as a form of ID enabling Mexican immigrants to open bank accounts.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Death Rate Rises Sharply in Barren Areas

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO, Calif.


The dying season began early here this year, with four bloated bodies found
floating in the All-American Canal on March 14. The victims, young men ages 19
and 20, had made their way from Chiapas, in southernmost Mexico, before drowning
in the canal's churning currents just 35 yards from United States land.

For the Imperial County Sheriff's Department, it was an ominous sign. The dead
usually start showing up in multiples in high summer, when the desert becomes an
inferno and the canal, roiling beneath a calm veneer, lures migrants looking for
a quick way across and relief from the killing sun. If bodies were washing up in
groups in March, what would the summer be like?

The answer, so far, is grim. Even though deaths along the Mexican border have
declined over all as the slumping American economy has attracted fewer migrants,
the toll is reaching record rates in the most remote and dangerous outposts. To
avoid the stepped-up border patrols in populated areas, the most desperate
migrants cross in the more unguarded and desolate deserts of Arizona and eastern
California. June was the deadliest month ever for the southwest border, with 67
migrants dying, mostly in the unrelenting heat of the United States Border
Patrol's Tucson sector, a barely habitable land that covers most of southern
Arizona.

Here in the mountainous El Centro sector, which includes the vast Imperial
Desert, 52 migrants have died since Oct. 1. The sheriff's department believes
the deaths could outpace last year's record of 95.

"It seems quiet, but we're finding more multiples -- bodies in threes, fours and
fives," said Gary Hayes, a deputy coroner in the department. "They're really
trying to avoid detection, so they're going to more and more remote areas."

The rising toll in these barren regions is the more remarkable because illegal
immigration from Mexico has fallen 29 percent, largely because of the faltering
United States economy and tighter security, and border deaths in general are
down 20 percent.

Experts warn that the deadliest months are to come. August, traditionally, is
the cruelest. They also note that the statistics do not include people who die
in Mexico. (The Mexican government counted 22 migrants who died inside its
border in June. It counts only Mexicans and not migrants who pass through from
Central America or elsewhere.)

The deaths are full of suffering. People have suffocated in airless trucks, died
in vehicle crashes, been struck by lightning or drowned. Most often, though,
they are felled by heatstroke or dehydration. Some carry no identification and,
in a tragic irony, end up where they wanted to be, in the United States -- but
in anonymous pauper's graves. Other migrants, not counted by the Border Patrol,
never make it across.

Migrant advocacy organizations blame the Border Patrol for the mounting deaths,
saying that its decision to focus its policing on border cities has driven
migrant traffic to the most severe terrain, with the most extreme climates,
winter and summer. The policy, which began as Operation Gatekeeper in 1994,
added officers, enhanced surveillance equipment and put up physical barriers
like concrete walls, as well as introducing other measures, at the San Diego
border. The strategy was then expanded to Arizona and Texas.

Since the operation began, about 2,000 migrants have died trying to cross into
this country, according to the Mexican government, with an average of more than
one a day in the last two years. The shift has also made expensive smugglers --
called coyotes -- indispensable. Possibly hundreds of migrants have died because
they have been abandoned by these smugglers, or because they have been led by
people who themselves could not manage a brutal landscape, their advocates say.

"Once the deaths started happening by the dozens in the mountains east of San
Diego," the federal government "never rethought its strategy," said Claudia
Smith, border project director for the California Rural Legal Assistance
Foundation, in San Diego. "The Border Patrol, as planned, went on to push them
into the deserts," she said, "where the risk increased exponentially."

The Border Patrol denies that its policies are responsible for the increase in
deaths and has no plans to change its strategy. It counters that it is doing
everything it can to deter migrants from passing through the desert, including
adding medically trained search and trauma teams to rescue migrants, helicopter
patrols in treacherous areas and several rescue beacons in the desert that send
an electronic distress signal with the push of a button. It has also mounted a
public service campaign in Mexico and Central America, using celebrities to do
television and radio advertisements to warn would-be migrants of the dangers of
trying an illegal border crossing.

"Our primary mission is to protect our nation's borders," said Mario Villarreal,
a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Washington, D.C., adding that unscrupulous
smugglers, charging between $1,000 and $2,000 a person or more, are to blame for
persuading would-be border crossers to make the dangerous trek.

Crossing the border illegally has always come with risks. Before Operation
Gatekeeper, most traffic entered via cities like San Diego and El Paso, where
migrants became targets for muggers and the like.

A study released in July by the Public Policy Institute of California, a
research organization in San Francisco, found that the Gatekeeper strategy,
which costs more than $2 billion a year, has done little to significantly
diminish illegal immigration. It actually increased after the border buildup.
Economic opportunities in the United States and Mexico, the study found, have a
stronger effect on migration than does the number of agents at the border.

Migrants risking their lives in the extremes of the desert tend to come from the
poorest states in Mexico, like Chiapas and Oaxaca, where the economy is in
collapse and whole villages have been vacated by working-age men, and,
increasingly, women. At Casa Madre de Asunto in Tijuana, a safe house for
migrant women that is run by a Catholic nun, a dozen or more women at a time
have either migrated to the city from the south or have stopped by on their way
to cross the border.

Recently, a 31-year-old woman from Oaxaca said she and her brother, a cousin and
a friend, who were resting at a safe house for men next door, had driven for two
days and two nights to make it to Tijuana and planned to make a two-day trek
through mountains with a "coyote" who was taking them into Los Angeles, charging
them $1,500 each.

"That's $1,000 less than he charges others," she said, "because he knows us."
She had tried to make the trek months before, she said, but lost her nerve after
feeling faint and dehydrated and turned back after a day.

She said she hoped to become a maid or work in a store and make some money to
send to her mother. "I'm coming for a better life for all of us," she said.

Days later, a woman at the safe house said she assumed the group had made it
across; they had not heard from the Oaxaca woman.

When smugglers are caught, said Mr. Villarreal of the Border Patrol, efforts are
made to prosecute them. In a recent incident in Dallas, where two men were found
dead in a stifling 54-foot-long truck that had transported 40 illegal immigrants
from El Paso, a nine-hour trip, two truckers have been charged with murder.

"This is good work' but we're not done," Mr. Villarreal said. "The main message
we still want to get out is that it is dangerous to try to cross along the
southwest border."

Here in the El Centro sector, five suspected illegal immigrants died of heat
exposure in mid-July in an area of the Imperial Desert that resembles a
moonscape. "It's almost totally devoid of plant life," Mr. Hayes, the deputy
coroner, said.

Spotted by a military aircraft, the bodies could not retrieved for a day because
of the terrain. Mr. Hayes said satellite equipment was needed to mark the
positions of the bodies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A cross stenciled "No Olvidado," or "not forgotten," marking a
potter's field grave in Holtville, Calif., where many unidentified migrants who
died trying to enter the United States illegally from Mexico are buried. (Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of the Southwest and Mexico shows
migrant deaths in border patrol sectors. (pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 13, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Child-Smuggling Ring Broken Up By the U.S. Immigration Agency

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12


Federal officials said today that they had broken up a huge child-smuggling ring
that preyed on illegal immigrants desperate to be reunited with their children.

Since 1994, the ring has smuggled in hundreds of children, from toddlers to
teenagers, from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, at a cost of $5,000 to
$7,000 each, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

Tightened border controls, especially since Sept. 11, have made it more
difficult and expensive for those in the United States illegally to return home
to retrieve their children, forcing them to entrust the task to strangers,
officials said.

"This was not some humanitarian operation built on any shred of compassion,"
Johnny Williams, the immigration agency's executive associate commissioner for
field operations, said at a news conference. "It was a mean-spirited criminal
enterprise driven by greed."

To be reunited with their sons and daughters, the immigrants would scrape
together what to many was a fortune to bring their children to the United
States.

The immigration agency said its agents arrested three people on Friday in
Houston. They were identified today as Ana Karina Cruz Rivas, Juan Orlando
Servellon De Leon and Andrea Giron. Last month, the authorities arrested Berta
Campos, whom they suspected of being a ring leader, in Los Angeles, and
Guillermo Antonio Paniaqua in Houston. All are from El Salvador.

Officials said the smuggling suspects face up to 10 years in prison and fines of
$250,000 if convicted. None of those arrested are believed to be legal permanent
residents, so they are also subject to deportation after serving any prison
terms.

The arrests followed seven others, in El Salvador, including those of Ms.
Campos's son and former daughter-in-law. On April 5, the authorities arrested 12
people in Guatemala who were accompanying 53 children, ages 2 to 17. The
children were being transported from El Salvador to the United States.

Detailed ledgers kept by the ring since 1994 show that several hundred children
have been illegally transported from Central America to Los Angeles, Boston and
New York, all of which have large Salvadoran communities, officials said.

"This is the largest children's smuggling case that we know of in the history of
our agency," Mr. Williams said.

It was also a family-run, multimillion-dollar enterprise that transported groups
of 10 to 15 children with clockwork efficiency every two weeks along a well-worn
route from their native countries to Mexico, into the United States, then on to
Los Angeles. There, parents would pick up the children, or the youngsters would
be sent elsewhere in the United States.

Bribes greased the illegal flow, said Hipolito Acosta, who oversaw the
investigation as head of the immigration agency's field office in Mexico City.

The risky trips took 10 to 30 days, officials said, and forced children as young
as 18 months to endure treks through harsh deserts and desolate mountain passes,
as well as malnourishment and nights of sleeping on the lobby floors of dingy
hotels.

Smugglers typically assigned teenagers to care for the younger children,
officials said.

"When I hear about children crying throughout the night, I know it wasn't a
pleasure trip," Mr. Williams said. "The smugglers routinely jeopardized the very
safety and well-being of a very vulnerable human cargo."

Though many of the children suffered from hunger or exposure, the authorities
said they had no evidence that the children had been otherwise abused or that
any had died.

Federal officials gave only spare details of the 10-month investigation, which
continues in the United States, Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador.

But officials said there were at least three important turning points in
smashing the ring. The first came late last fall, Mr. Williams said, when the
immigration authorities encountered a smuggling case that provided investigative
leads concerning the larger smuggling network.

Then in January, officials found five Salvadoran children being kept in what
they described as deplorable conditions in a safe house outside Mexico City, and
another handful of children at the airport in Tijuana.

At least four people were arrested and charged with smuggling.

The arrests led to more leads for investigators and effectively foiled the
regular two-week deliveries of children.

Until that point, the smugglers had limited the size of the groups of children
to avoid notice and crossed the Salvadoran-Guatemalan border on busy market
days, when the villages were more crowded than usual, immigration officials
said.

But the postponement of the regular runs was bad for the smugglers' business and
created a backlog of children waiting to be transported. So the smugglers risked
taking the much larger group of 53 children north from El Salvador. The children
were discovered in seven buses at a checkpoint north of Guatemala City, on April
5.

Guatemala deported the 53 children to their home countries, where they were
returned to relatives.

Mr. Williams said today that investigators would review each child's situation
to determine the child's fate, suggesting that some children might be allowed to
stay in the United States with their parents and some might be sent to their
home countries to be cared for by relatives.

"Every case will be looked at individually," Mr. Williams said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The smugglers routinely jeopardized the very safety and
well-being of a very vulnerable human cargo, " Johnny Williams said yesterday in
Washington in announcing the breakup of a child-smuggling ring. (Stephen
Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 23, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Notes From Laredo;
Tracing Clues Along the Border

BYLINE:  By Dennis Michelini;  Dennis Michelini is an agent with the United
States Border Patrol.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1176 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex.


It's night, and I'm tracking a group of 20 illegal immigrants through the thick
and tangled brush of south Texas. About 30 miles to my left, the subdued orange
glow of the closest city, Eagle Pass, gently illuminates the night sky. It's
quiet out here. Besides the wind and the occasional yapping of coyotes, nothing
stirs. The terrain lacks much in the way of topography.

When I do manage to come to the top of a moderate rise, I can see the blinking
red light of a radio tower off in the distance. I've been following this group
for the last three miles from the Rio Grande. Their guide, or more correctly,
the smuggler, is leading his entourage toward that tower. From there he'll scoot
around the southern side of Eagle Pass and either sneak them past the Border
Patrol checkpoint or to a staging house in Crystal City. If he walks them to a
pickup location on the highway, I'll have a reasonable chance of catching the
group. But if he guides them into Crystal City, I will lose them, unable to pick
up their trail on the sidewalks and paved roads of the neighborhoods.

Next time you step off the sidewalk in a park, stop and take a look at your
footprint. To a Border Patrol agent, what you left is called "sign." The act of
looking for sign is called "cutting." Whether you are a pilot, as I am now, or a
field agent on the ground, as I was for five years, cutting for sign is
essentially the same.

All along the Texas portion of the Rio Grande, from as far east as El Paso,
through Big Bend National Park, past the city of Del Rio, to where the river
eventually spills into the gulf, Border Patrol agents cut for sign left by
illegal immigrants trekking north, northeast or east on their way to prearranged
pickup sites along roads or to staging houses securely nestled in small
communities.

Out of the tangled mess of immigration laws and policy falls our simple job of
cutting for sign. We have our helicopters, night-vision goggles, seismic sensors
and surveillance cameras. Still, there is a wondrous simplicity in walking out
tracks. You can't tell a person's race from a footprint or profile a person from
a Converse tennis shoe. They are all equal -- in that they all shouldn't be
here.

As Border Patrol agents, we are often asked why we stop these poor people who
only wish to come here to work. I understand that we're a nation of immigrants
but I believe a country has a right to maintain and protect its borders, to
stand on a point and say, "We start here." I don't mind drawing that line in the
sand, literally or figuratively.

Each shift starts with agents making cuts across large sections of their
assigned area. Generally, we follow the largest group, but sometimes we just
look for the one that has passed through most recently. A freshly made footprint
shines. The soil beneath has been pressed in one direction. It is similar to
patterns children make running their fingers up and down their corduroy pants.
Wind eventually disturbs this uniformity, and while you can still make out the
pattern of the shoe, the shine has faded.

To an agent, a group that is shining is hard to pass up, because he knows it is
just ahead, maybe resting in the next arroyo. He can tell how old a sign is by
the animal or insect marks across it. Maybe the cactus the group walked across
and nicked is still wet. Or if an agent is tracking a group at night, he might
notice the absence of spider webs strung between the brush.

But often it is the sole of the shoe that leaves the most clues. Agents have all
kinds of names for the patterns etched into the soles: lazy S, running W,
Converse, flat-soled boot, thin-lined, circle in the heel, circle in the toe.
The combination of distinct tread designs and total number of footprints
identifies groups. As these groups march through the brush, they inevitably walk
across the signs of other groups. Groups are constantly criss-crossing each
other. They're not physically bumping into one another, but passing the same
watering holes, windmills, tanks, reservoirs, arroyos and fence lines.

A group can walk about three miles an hour. Often it is led by a guide who is
part of a much larger trafficking organization that helps transport people to
cities across the country. But the guide's only job is to get them to the pickup
locations. Sometimes after a guide shepherds his group across a drag -- a swath
of soft dirt that agents create to capture footprints -- he'll break a branch
off a bush and brush the group's sign off the dirt. Occasionally a group will
walk across in their socks or backward. I knew one guide who spread out empty
burlap sacks to hide signs. A good guide will know the poorly maintained or
grassy areas of a particular drag, and lead his group to those places. Groups
walk single file. On a dark night, even though people in the group may be no
more than an arm's length away from one another, it is easy for groups to become
disorganized.

I've followed many groups through the ranches in this area, and while I don't
always know exactly where I am at any given time, I know I can always find a way
out. A person who becomes disoriented out there could stay that way for hours.
It turns hot -- to 100 degrees or more sometimes -- very quickly. Water is
scarce. If you are already lost and unable to find a road or a city, chances are
you will not know where to find water.

When an agent comes across a dead body, the first thing he will notice is the
attempt the person made to undress. The first time I saw this I thought it was
done in an effort to cool off. But I later learned that as death approaches --
but while the person is still alive and conscious -- the body can swell. That's
why people peel off their shoes and socks off and unbuckle their belts. Their
jeans become puffed and tight. They usually lie on their backs under a piece of
brush. I've found socks carefully folded, small knapsacks neatly arranged beside
bloated corpses, a small handkerchief across a face.

Once, when looking for identification, I came across some pictures a dead man
had in his wallet. One of the pictures was of him and a very young girl, a child
really, sitting on a pool table. On the back was a message written to him from
his daughter: "Te extrano. Regresa a casa pronto. Te Amo, Isela." ("I miss you.
Come home soon. Love, Isela.")

It is a nauseating and unnatural sensation to come across a dead man. Some of
the bodies are nothing more than scattered bones. Some have blackened skin and
are oozing dark goo and maggots. All are, of course, a purposeless loss. Yet
there they are, lying about, year after year. It is really of no importance what
someone like me feels when they come across a dead body. I'm not the one dead.
I've not suffered a tragedy.

I remember looking at that girl's picture, the one on the pool table, and
thinking that perhaps right now she is someplace in Mexico playing with dolls in
her house or helping her mother change her new brother's diapers. And that in
eight or 12 hours, or however long it will take, her little picture of the world
will be destroyed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Van Nutt)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 25, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hospitals Feeling Strain From Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1278 words

DATELINE: STUART, Fla.


In the two and a half years since Luis Jimenez arrived at the Martin Memorial
Medical Center emergency room with severe brain damage from a head-on car
collision, the hospital here has become his home.

In that time, Mr. Jimenez, 30, a former gardener, has emerged from a coma, had
two birthdays and accumulated medical bills of almost $1 million. By all
accounts, he is well enough to be discharged, but the hospital and advocates for
the patient are in a conflict over his mounting medical bills and future care
that makes his release unlikely without a court order.

A penniless illegal immigrant from Guatemala, Mr. Jimenez has no health
insurance, and his injuries have left him with limited mobility and the mental
capacity of a 3-year-old. Martin Memorial wants to send him back to his homeland
for any remaining medical care. But Mr. Jimenez's advocates insist that he must
remain at the hospital until it can find a suitable place in the United States
or Guatemala that is willing to care for him.

The impasse is at the center of a national debate over who is ultimately
responsible for illegal immigrants who require extensive medical care but have
no means to pay for it. The issue has become an increasing concern for health
care providers, particularly in Florida and border states with growing numbers
of illegal immigrants.

Federal law requires hospitals to provide emergency care to critically ill or
injured patients regardless of their immigration status. But because many
illegal immigrants work in low-wage jobs that offer no benefits, and cannot
qualify for Medicaid, they use emergency rooms as their primary source of
routine and critical health care. As the number of such patients increases
sharply in states like Florida, California, Texas and Arizona, so too does the
financial burden on health care centers that treat them, hospital administrators
say.

"We have people coming to our country in good faith to work, but we have no
system in place as a nation as to what to do when these people get sick," said
Pat Austin, a spokeswoman for Martin Memorial. "Each hospital is left to kind of
figure out what to do for itself."

The hospitals insist that they are not turning away critically ill or injured
people, but they are becoming more aggressive in seeking ways to release them.
Some hospitals are going to court seeking permission to discharge patients like
Mr. Jimenez. Federal lawmakers are seeking financial aid to reimburse hospitals
for treating indigent illegal immigrants, and some hospitals have taken unusual
steps, including putting nurses on planes to fly the patients back to their own
countries.

Such measures, though, have done little to stem the rising costs, the health
care providers say.

"We have tried to work on this for years, but the problem has gotten more
acute," said Sheri Jorden, senior policy director for the Arizona Hospital and
Healthcare Association. "Hospitals have been writing these bills off with great
difficulty."

According to a study released last month by the National Association of
Counties, 86 percent of 150 counties nationwide reported an increase in
uncompensated health care expenses in the last five years. Of those reporting an
increase, 67 percent cited a growing number of immigrants as a factor in the
rising costs for county hospitals and rescue services.

"Most of the counties receive money from the state and federal government," said
Jacqueline Byers, director of research for the association, "but it is not
nearly enough to meet the growing need."

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the number of illegal
immigrants in the United States increased to as many as eight million in 2000,
the last year for which figures are available, from five million in 1996. By
some estimates, hospitals are collectively writing off as much as $2 billion a
year in unpaid medical bills to treat the illegal immigrants, who, unlike
American citizens and permanent residents, are ineligible for Medicaid.

In one case at Martin Memorial that was resolved in February, an illegal
immigrant from Jamaica arrived at the emergency room with a sore on his leg and
stayed in the hospital for 17 months.

"He said he had a green card but couldn't find it," Ms. Austin said. "The
doctors found a serious vascular disease and he had to have both legs
amputated."

"After his surgeries, when he was well enough, we had a great deal of difficulty
figuring out what to do next," Ms. Austin added. "We eventually found some
relatives and a physician in Jamaica who was willing to accept him, and one of
our nurses flew with him to Jamaica. By the time all that happened, it had cost
us probably over half a million dollars."

In the case of Mr. Jimenez, Martin Memorial says it has already incurred nearly
$900,000 in expenses for which it has no hope of being paid.

"We feel there needs to be a national program of some sort that would cover
these individuals with insurance," Ms. Austin said, "or in the case of
catastrophic events, allow the hospital a chance of repayment."

Martin Memorial has been unable to release Mr. Jimenez because the patient's
guardian and the hospital cannot agree on a discharge plan. The hospital has
petitioned a judge for permission to send Mr. Jimenez back to Guatemala. No
state medical center will accept him, since his immigration status makes him
ineligible for Medicaid.

Mr. Jimenez's lawyer contends that the hospital has not provided enough
information about where the man will be placed and who will treat him. Mr.
Jimenez's family in Guatemala does not have the money to pay for his care.

"The hospital is saying he's occupying a bed and we need to get him out," said
Michael Banks, a lawyer who has donated his services to Montejo Gaspar, Mr.
Jimenez's cousin by marriage and his court-appointed guardian. "We have made it
unequivocally clear that we have no problems sending Mr. Jimenez to Guatemala,
but we feel a plan is not in place."

In Arizona, where hospitals have grappled with similar problems, the University
Medical Center in Tucson wrote off more than $3 million in costs between July
2000 and June 2001 that it incurred from treating uninsured immigrants, said
John Duval, chief operating officer for the center. "I don't know that there's a
societal solution to the problem," Mr. Duval said, "but we are doing an enormous
amount of heavy lifting with no compensation."

Another Arizona hospital, Southeast Arizona Medical Center in Douglas, filed for
bankruptcy and nearly closed in 1998 because of the rising costs of treating
illegal immigrants. The problem has become so bad in Arizona that a state
program that provided free dialysis and chemotherapy for legal and illegal
immigrants will run out of money in a couple of months.

The issue has prompted hospitals in several states to seek assistance from
sympathetic lawmakers. Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, introduced a bill
in January 2001, co-sponsored with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona,
and Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, that would provide $200
million a year for four years to reimburse health care providers in border
regions.

Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona, introduced a similar measure in
June 2001 that would establish a $50 million reimbursement program for hospitals
and ambulance services in his state. The Border Hospital Survival and Illegal
Immigrant Care Act would guarantee that medical providers are compensated for
treating illegal immigrants. Both bills are stalled in committees.

"It is not a top priority for many," Mr. Kolbe said. "It does happen everywhere,
but where you see it every day is here along the border."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis Jimenez in his room at Martin Memorial Medical Center in
Stuart, Fla., at the end of a visit with his cousin Juana Gaspar and her son,
Lucas. (David Friedman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

On California's Urban Border, Praise for Immigration Curbs

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

DATELINE: IMPERIAL BEACH, Calif.


Not too long ago in this coastal city south of San Diego and a stone's throw
from Mexico, residents said they felt under siege.

Rick B'Tello, who manages the beachfront Seacoast Inn, said Border Patrol agents
routinely chased illegal immigrants up the beach, each time prompting about half
of his horrified guests to check out of the hotel. At the Tijuana Estuary, a
national wildlife refuge, Brian Collins, a biologist, said illegal crossers
trampled rare plants and the nests of endangered birds on their furtive way
north, sometimes even eating the birds' eggs for breakfast.

Worse, Imperial Beach officials said, the hordes passing through -- the Border
Patrol said it once arrested more than 2,000 immigrants here in one 24-hour
period -- gave this city with a population of about 26,000 a negative image that
kept families and visitors away.

These days, though, the wildlife refuge is peaceful, tourists are coming in
droves, and more people are moving in than out. Residents here mostly credit
Operation Gatekeeper, the federal government's seven-year-old effort to strictly
guard the westernmost 66 miles of the California-Mexico border.

The Border Patrol's tighter enforcement, which has been spreading east to
Arizona and Texas as well, has been widely condemned by human rights advocates
for channeling immigrants into remote mountains and deserts, where hundreds of
them have died of exposure. But in urban areas like Imperial Beach that took the
brunt of the illegal traffic, grateful residents say the stepped-up vigilance
has all but sealed the once popular smuggling routes across their beaches, parks
and backyards and helped revive the area's economy and improve the quality of
life.

Among the signs of prosperity in this working-class bedroom community are higher
occupancy rates at hotels and record attendance for beach events like the U.S.
Open Sandcastle competition, a 28 percent increase in home prices this year and
neighborhoods no longer disturbed by large groups of illegal immigrants and the
armed federal agents who trailed them.

"When I hear comments that Operation Gatekeeper doesn't work, well, it's worked
for us," said Imperial Beach's mayor, Diane Rose. "Suddenly, people feel
comfortable walking along the beach with their children in the evening. Your
evenings are not disrupted anymore. People want to live here."

The quality-of-life problems of border communities are not well publicized, and
they are not the kind of issue that makes or breaks government policy. But some
immigration experts say these problems add another point of view to a national
debate that has lately focused on the risks to the illegal immigrants. A General
Accounting Office report released in August said that other communities where
border enforcement had increased had experienced economic improvement and lower
rates of crimes like theft.

In Nogales, Ariz., officials reported that as crossings declined, many small
convenience stores that catered to illegal immigrants went out of business and
large retailers took their place, attracting legal shoppers from both sides of
the border. In Brownsville, Tex., shoplifting incidents dropped and a park near
the Rio Grande is used again by families, the accounting office reported.

"This isn't just a matter of whether the neighborhood is messy," said Mark S.
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, which advocates immigration controls. "People have a right to expect
that their neighborhood isn't going to host this kind of civic disorder. It
affects how secure people feel."

The heavy use of urban areas like Imperial Beach for illegal crossings, Border
Patrol officials say, stemmed from the relatively easy access the western end of
the border afforded immigrants looking for work in places like Los Angeles. At
one point, it was estimated that 25 percent of all crossings along the
2,000-mile Southwestern border came through the westernmost five miles starting
at the Pacific Ocean.

But a turnaround began in 1994 when the Immigration and Naturalization Service
focused resources along its San Diego sector -- installing lights and ground
sensors; more than doubling the number of Border Patrol agents, to 2,000;
completing fencing along 47 miles of the border and starting a new secondary
fence as reinforcement.

Johnny N. Williams, director of the service's western regional office, said the
San Diego sector of the border was now under control, with a 30-year low in
immigrant arrests and drug seizures also sharply down.

A recent tour along the first few miles of the border attests to the
transformation -- once a wild stretch populated by border crossers, smugglers,
bandits and federal agents in pursuit, the area was deserted except for the
occasional Border Patrol vehicle. Only six men were seen biding their time on
the Tijuana side of the corrugated steel fence that serves as the international
boundary.

But while San Diego was calming down, the illegal traffic shifted elsewhere, and
arrests of illegal immigrants rose in other border areas, like Douglas, Ariz. In
those places, the G.A.O. found, residents now complain of loss of business,
destruction of private property and environmental degradation.

More troubling, by moving eastward to more dangerous terrain, many illegal
immigrants have died from exposure to extreme heat or cold while trying to
cross. The high death toll -- more than 1,000 known deaths in the last four
years alone, according to Border Patrol figures -- and the increased illegal
flow through other points of the border have led to criticism by civil rights
advocates that Operation Gatekeeper is not only ineffective but inhumane.

"This is not about quality of life but life itself," said William Aceves, a
spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union of San Diego and Imperial
Counties, one of the groups that have taken their complaints to the human rights
commissions of the Organization of American States and the United Nations.

Many border residents said they had mixed feelings about the immigrants
themselves, but not about relaxing their end of the border.

Some residents noted that many crossers had also died here, drowned in lagoons
or run over by cars in mad dashes across the freeway. Even today, parts of I-5
south of San Clemente have chain-link fencing on medians and "Caution" signs
with the silhouettes of a man, a woman and a child in pigtails hurrying along.

Even those torn about the plight of the illegal immigrants, like Melissa
Espinosa, 24, a second-generation Mexican-American, said they supported
Operation Gatekeeper. Ms. Espinosa said she was not allowed to play in certain
areas while growing up in the San Diego section of San Ysidro to avoid
encounters with crossers. When she was a teenager, she said, federal agents
stopped her on the street regularly, asking her to name the governor of
California to check her citizenship status.

But her exasperation with the immigrants often gave way to compassion. She used
to give directions to some who were mistakenly headed back to Mexico, she said,
and sometimes alerted them to Border Patrol agents nearby. "I felt sorry for
them, but it was very invasive," said Ms. Espinosa, a waitress.

Bud Harbin, 64, a former member of the Imperial Beach City Council who said he
could count as many as 70 illegal immigrants passing through his neighborhood
most nights, said the trespassers had stolen four of his cars, crouched down in
his bushes and once hid in a room of his house. On many nights, he said, women
in the neighborhood who lived alone or whose husbands were out would call on him
to check on a noise or a prowler.

Not all border residents are delighted with the enforcement. A few miles east,
in San Ysidro and Otay Mesa in the southern part of the city of San Diego, views
of the illegal immigrants are tempered by economic ties that draw millions of
crossers from Mexico to the area legally, many to shop.

In those parts, people say they are more troubled that the government is using
resources to curb the illegal traffic that could go to paying for more
inspectors so that legal crossers do not have to wait for hours to have their
documents checked.

"We could be using the money to open up legal gates," said Alejandra Mier y
Teran, executive director of the Otay Mesa Chamber of Commerce. "I view it as an
opportunity cost. Our businesses are losing money because of this."

But in Imperial Beach, residents worry about how long the enforcement will be
maintained. The immigration agency's strategy is to increase control of the
border in phases, but attrition within the Border Patrol is a big concern, as is
the question of whether the agency will continue to receive adequate financing
to stem the flow of illegal immigrants.

"We would never allow it to go back to what it was before," Mayor Rose said. "We
couldn't afford it economically. We have to make sure the resources we need
happen."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: New beachfront construction, top, and a rise in tourism in
Imperial Beach, Calif., are benefits of tighter border control. Above, inside
the fence separating the California coast from Mexico, an officer watched the
surf. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A14) Map of
California highlighting Imperial Beach. (pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 25, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants on the Run

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 153 words


To the Editor:

Re "On California's Urban Border, Praise for Immigration Curbs" (front page,
Aug. 21):

The incidents described in your article illustrate that there is more than one
way to perceive this difficult situation.

The hotel manager whose customers left when the Border Patrol "chased illegal
immigrants up the beach" may have kept his guests if he had been polite to the
strangers, perhaps directing them to an alternate route or a shelter.

If the Border Patrol had not arrested "more than 2,000 immigrants" in 24 hours,
the town of Imperial Beach would not have received such a "negative image."
If those quoted were not narrowly focused on maintaining a false sense of order,
perhaps they would see what William Aceves of the American Civil Liberties Union
of San Diego and Imperial Counties pointed out: "This is not about quality of
life but life itself."

KATHERINE POWELL COHEN
San Francisco, Aug. 22, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Fox Comes to Washington

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 515 words


All the pomp and circumstance of Vicente Fox's arrival on the South Lawn of the
White House yesterday could not mask the diminished expectations of the Mexican
president's state visit to Washington. With both the American and Mexican
economies stalled and the blush off Mr. Fox's reform presidency, a lot less will
come of the visit than the two leaders hoped when they set the date earlier this
year. Given the depth and complexity of the relationship between the neighboring
nations, that may not be a bad thing.

There is no doubt that this is a time of greater interdependence, and warmer
ties, between the United States and Mexico. The improved relationship is
reflected in growing cooperation on immigration, drug trafficking and other
traditionally nettlesome issues. Mr. Fox, who defeated the long-ruling
Institutional Revolutionary Party in last year's election, enjoys a democratic
legitimacy that his predecessors could not claim and a good personal rapport
with President Bush.

Good will, however, cannot instantly solve the divisive issues that still strain
relations between the nations, especially the illegal movement of hundreds of
thousands of Mexicans across the border. Last February the two presidents
directed aides to fashion a broad new deal on immigration by the time Mr. Fox
came to Washington.

That proved unrealistic. The White House considered legalizing the status of a
large portion of the more than three million Mexicans working illegally in the
United States by incorporating them into an expanded guest-worker program. But
after gauging the opposition on Capitol Hill and watching the downturn in the
American economy, the White House now favors a more gradual approach, and seems
unsure when a deal can be reached.

Mr. Fox did not hide his impatience yesterday when he challenged Mr. Bush at the
welcoming ceremonies to reach an agreement by the end of the year. While the Fox
timetable may make for good politics in Mexico, Mr. Bush needs more time to
build political support for an agreement that resolves the immigration problem
in a responsible way that benefits both countries.

Economic stagnation in the United States has also limited Mr. Fox's options on a
range of domestic issues. Mexico, now the United States' second-largest trading
partner, is integrated as never before into the American economy in the
aftermath of the North American Free Trade Agreement. As a result, the slowdown
north of the Rio Grande has produced a recession in Mexico.

The economic problems have hindered Mr. Fox's plan to increase public spending
to combat poverty. Combined with his failure to sell his legislative program to
opposition parties that control the Mexican Congress, the recession has hampered
the Fox administration's reform agenda.

Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox had reason to toast one another last evening at the first
state dinner to be held by Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura. There has never been a
better relationship between Mexican and American presidents. Even so,
celebrations to mark the completion of a new immigration agreement will have to
wait.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fox Urges Congress to Grant Rights to Mexican Immigrants in U.S.

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6


President Vicente Fox of Mexico urged a joint meeting of Congress today to grant
legal rights to millions of undocumented Mexican immigrants, saying they bring
large economic and cultural benefits to the United States.

"Let me be clear about this," Mr. Fox said. "Regularization does not mean
rewarding those who break the law. Regularization means that we give legal
rights to people who are already contributing to this great nation."

Alternating almost seamlessly between Spanish and English, he asked Congress for
stronger ties and greater trust between the United States and Mexico. It is a
theme that has been highlighted on his first official visit to Washington.

Mr. Fox also urged the legislators to show confidence in his government, the
first to be led by a president elected from the opposition, by supporting
legislation that would exempt Mexico from the United States's drug certification
program and that would allow Mexican trucks on American highways.

President Bush, playing host for the first state visit of his administration,
expressed support for Mr. Fox's proposals and said he understood the Mexican
leader's urgency. He warned Congress that he would veto an appropriations bill
that would ban Mexican trucks from the United States.

Mr. Bush also called the drug certification process counterproductive and unfair
to Mexico. Every year since 1986, the White House has had to certify to Congress
that Mexico is doing its part in the war on drugs.

"We are committed to becoming a true partner with the United States in the fight
against drugs," Mr. Fox said. "But trust requires that one partner is not
unilaterally judged by another."

On Mr. Fox's quest to reach an agreement on the immigration issue by the end of
the year, Mr. Bush said, "I want to accommodate my friend." Then he explained
the political struggle ahead.

"This is an incredibly complex issue," Mr. Bush said. "It is complex to the
point where my administration is going to spend a lot of time on resolving that
type of question. But to make matters even more complicated, we've got to work
with the Congress, and we've got to come up with a solution that Congress can
accept."

Acting after President Fox addressed Congress, the Senate approved a measure
giving illegal immigrants more time to seek visas.

Legislators seemed divided along party lines on Mr. Fox's proposals to expand
programs for guest workers and to give legal work status to 3.5 million Mexicans
in the United States. Richard A. Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, said
that he agreed with Mr. Fox's request for quick action on immigration and that
he thought that legislation was possible by the end of the year.

But Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who heads the
Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus, said he opposed any amnesty for illegal
immigrants.

Despite the partisan differences, legislators expressed admiration for Mr. Fox
and for the ties that he has forged between the two countries that have shared a
wall of distrust for much of the last century.

"The bottom line is the fences are going to go down between these two
countries," Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, said. "And
it's in the interest of both countries that we make it work."

House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, called the speech "muy
excelente."

Mr. Fox boasted of his legitimacy before American legislators. "The dream that
for decades was unfulfilled is now a reality," he said, bringing legislators to
one of three ovations.

It is a legitimacy that Mr. Fox hopes will help level the playing field in
negotiations with the United States over contentious issues like narcotics
trafficking and illegal immigration. He also hopes to turn the burgeoning
feelings of trust between Washington and Mexico City into reforms and programs
that will help lift his nation out of social distress.

"Give trust a chance," he said, to more applause. "Give our two governments a
chance."

In a joint statement released after the address, both presidents celebrated the
"special friendship and authentic partnership" that they had achieved. The
statement indicated that the two had reached accords on sharing assets seized in
joint law-enforcement operations, on a $50 million college scholarship program
to spur studies in economic development and the creation of a public-private
alliance to generate growth in the private sector throughout Mexico.

The Mexican national security adviser, Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, said the two
governments had nearly worked out the organization of new binational
law-enforcement units.

In his speech, Mr. Fox emphasized that his government had already demonstrated
its commitment to fighting organized crime by arresting important drug
traffickers and smugglers of immigrants over the nine months that he has been in
office.

Calling the North American Free Trade Agreement an incomplete treaty, Mr. Fox
urged legislators to back away from safety standards that have prohibited
Mexican trucks from entering the United States.

He said he spoke in the name of 100 million Mexicans in his country seeking
similar hopes for a more prosperous Mexico. But some of his most earnest
pronouncements were directed at Mexicans who are living in the United States. He
told the legislators that immigrants were always more of a benefit than a cost
to the countries that receive them.

He said he was seeking measures that would lift the ceilings on the numbers of
Mexicans who are granted permanent visas to the United States, expand
opportunities for Mexican guest workers and save lives on the United
States-Mexico border.

Reminding legislators of this country's immigrant past, Mr. Fox paid homage to
"the brave men and women who had taken the challenge to build new lives for
themselves and their families."

Then he spoke to Mexico's immigrants in the United States. "Mexico will never
forget you," he said. "We will support you. And we will not fail."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The World: Regulating Mexican Migration;
In a World at Flood Tide, an Effort to Lift the Gate a Bit

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


WHAT do Douglas, Ariz., and New Delhi, India, have in common? Both are stations
on the road for millions of people who want to come to the United States by any
means possible. And that road leads through Mexico.

The fall of the Berlin Wall did not just end the cold war. By opening up new
routes to the world's centers of capital, it set off a great migration not seen
since the calamitous 1940's. Albania's collapse alone sent a diaspora of two
million refugees to the United States, Canada and Europe.

Now tens of millions of people cross borders illegally every year. Some flee
poverty, some oppression. Some are simply looking for a job. Since they see
Mexico's border as the most open path to the United States, millions have tried
to cross it.

This is the world in which the leaders of the United States and Mexico met last
week to try to start rewriting their mutual rules of the road for migration. The
route across their border was well traveled long before anyone dreamed of
globalization and its discontents. But it has been made more labyrinthine by the
political and economic forces at play in the new century.

For decades, the economic gap between the two nations has driven millions of
Mexicans to work for minimum wages or less in the United States. Americans
reaped the rewards of that labor, so many ignored illegal immigration.

But as the American economy grew, more Mexicans migrated, legally and illegally.
And in the 1990's, international smugglers increasingly used Mexico as the
next-to-last stop in round-the-world routes to the United States. One recently
broken ring ran migrants from India to Russia to Cuba to Ecuador to Mexico and
up to the border.

Today, the issue is not how to stop migration, but how to control it in a way
that best benefits the United States.

In Washington last week, President Vicente Fox of Mexico aggressively pushed for
faster action on the issue than seems politically prudent for President Bush,
who faces opposition within his own party.

Still, both leaders recognize that the case of Mexicans in the United States is
unique. The border is the longest in the world between a rich nation and a
relatively poor one. Many Mexicans who cross it are not emigrants who come to
stay, but economic migrants, coming north to work for a while, going home,
returning for the harvest. As Woody Guthrie sang of those workers in the past
century, they come with the dust and they go with the wind. Nowadays, they still
gather the crops, but they also make beds in Holiday Inns and fry onions in
restaurants and pour concrete for condominiums and cultivate the gardens of the
rich.

"You have industries in the United States saying, 'Look, we really depend on the
use of these people we used to call illegal immigrants,' " said the United
States ambassador to Mexico, Jeffrey Davidow. "We cannot really run the hotel
industry in Las Vegas without them. Agriculture in California would be a lost
cause if it weren't for them."

The 2000 census made this vivid: About 30.5 million people in the United States
today were born abroad. About 8.8 million were born in Mexico, a 10-fold
increase since 1970. Demographers say as many as half of these Mexicans may be
undocumented; more than one million Mexican migrants are detained and deported
annually.

No one contends that the United States should not police its borders; in fact,
it guards them with increasing intensity. But few can deny that millions of
Mexican migrants, legal and illegal, have been a spark plug in the American
economic engine.

President Fox says their "hard work is a daily contribution to the prosperity"
of the United States, and he calls them heroes for sending billions of dollars
back home to their families in Mexico. The Federal Reserve Board chairman, Alan
Greenspan, whose reputation does not rest on cheap sentiment, has said that
migrant labor allowed America's economy to grow faster, with less inflation, in
the 1990's.

So it is not only the free movement of goods and capital that makes an economy
sing; maybe it is the free movement of labor, too. Migration's tides "respond to
deep underlying economic incentives, are all but impossible to stop, and must
instead be regulated," President Fox told the United States Congress. This is
not merely a question of law enforcement, but that is where the answer begins as
Mexico and the United States confront migration anew.

"Immigration is not a problem that is going to be 'solved' simply by cops," said
Joseph R. Greene, who is in charge of global antismuggling investigations at the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service. But under the Fox
government, he said, "we have seen a dramatic increase" in collaboration between
the United States and Mexico against the smuggling of huddled masses from around
the world.

Mexico, acting on American intelligence, is breaking up international rings that
have shipped human contraband through byzantine routes from China, India,
Pakistan, Iran, Iraq and at least 35 other nations to the border, often bribing
Mexican officials for safe passage. Mexico now must cope with terrified
detainees from Baghdad. But it cannot strike a grand bargain with the United
States for its own migrants unless it secures its own borders. To that end, say
American immigration officials, Mexico is cooperating with them as never before.

Success against international smugglers may allow both nations to shift their
spotlight from border crossing to what they call border safety, a matter of life
and death. Mexican migrants are dying in the desert for a chance at a job. They
have been dying at the rate of roughly one a day, often after being abandoned by
smugglers. They die because they are trying to cross at more and more remote
places, since the United States has sought to seal the safer routes.

The Americans can "chase them like rustlers, like outlaws, like thieves," as Mr.
Guthrie wrote long ago in his song about Mexican migrants, "Deportees." But they
cannot stop them from coming. Right now, they have two bad choices: to loosen up
on the less remote regions or to try to barricade the desert. Those tactics do
not stop drug smugglers and probably will not stop migrants. The Mexicans have
struggled with this issue, too. The state of Baja California is setting up
"no-go zones" in the desert to try to save lives.

Last spring, a member of Mr. Fox's government wanted to issue survival kits to
migrants leaving for the border. That set off a fracas within the Fox cabinet,
and the kits -- instantly labeled "Happy Meals" by the Mexico City press -- were
never issued.

If salt pills and rubber bullets are not the answer, would a blizzard of green
cards help? The problem probably will not be resolved simply by issuing more
Mexicans temporary and permanent work visas (which is likely), or granting legal
status to the three or four million illegally in the United States (which is
not).

President Fox won a standing ovation on Capitol Hill last week, but little else
of immediate significance: no draft treaties, no new laws, only an increased
sense that something should be done. But what? The answer may lie buried in the
vague joint statement Presidents Bush and Fox issued Thursday night. It spoke of
spending the next six months trying to "address some of the root causes of
migration," trying to "spur private sector growth throughout Mexico," trying to
"boost the social and economic well-being" of Mexicans "in regions where
economic growth has lagged."

That political language can be boiled down to a nugget: The answer is to
increase the legal flow of Mexican labor to the United States -- and the flow of
American capital to Mexico. That could begin to close the great gap in wealth
between the two nations. And that will take decades.

ILLEGAL immigration will begin to end "if we narrow this gap on development,"
Mr. Fox said in a PBS "NewsHour" interview. "Twenty, 30 years from now, we
should be able to do that."

Mexico may never be the southern half of the United States of North America. The
border may not crumble like the Berlin Wall. But in time it may look more like a
golden door. "The bottom line is the fences are going to go down between these
two countries," said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat, after
listening to Mr. Fox's speech. "And it's in the interests of both countries and
both peoples that we make it work."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the border at Mexicali, Mexico, a man holds a mirror to check
for the Border Patrol before trying to cross into the United States. (Associated
Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

La Rumorosa Journal;
To Risk Death in the Desert: An Inalienable Right?

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: LA RUMOROSA, Mexico


In recent years, more than 650 immigrants have died trying to cross the barren
territory that stretches from here into southern California. Crossing it on
foot, say Mexican immigration agents who patrol the area, is only slightly
easier than scaling Mount Everest, requiring training and special gear.

Still, the mountainous area between Tecate and Mexicali -- called La Rumorosa
for the whispering sounds made when the winds blow through the canyons -- has
become a favorite crossing area for illegal immigrants from around the world.
Its jagged landscape provides ample cover from law enforcement agents on both
sides of the border, but also makes it easy for disoriented travelers to get
lost.

A few months ago, immigration agents found a group of more than a dozen men and
women from the Mexican state of Oaxaca huddled under a few umbrellas. Last
month, a 25-year-old woman from Guanajuato, traveling across the border with her
two brothers, broke her leg climbing the canyons. She was rescued only after her
brothers escaped the desert to seek help.

Nature forged this desert along the United States-Mexico border into a no man's
land. Extreme temperatures turn the jagged canyons into summer ovens and winter
freezers. The sand on the desert floor is rippled by footsteps and littered with
haunting signs of life and death. There are Styrofoam coolers and tattered
shoestrings; soda bottles and sandwich bags; driver's licenses and pocket
knives. On their worst days, immigration agents find human remains.

Now, in an effort being watched from Tijuana to Laredo, Mexican officials have
decided to try to close this death trap. Starting next month, the government of
the state of Baja California intends to station agents along the highway at the
edge of the desert that stretches to the east and west of the city of Mexicali.
The agents will prohibit trucks and buses from dropping off immigrants in
isolated areas, and intercept others immigrants making their way across the
sandy dunes.

Alfredo Escobedo, the director of the state civil protection agency and the
author of the plan, said that the 45-mile stretch of desert had been declared a
"high-risk area," much like the ridges around the Mexican volcano Popocatepetl.

Political analysts say the plan is part of Mexico's efforts to prove its
willingness to be more aggressive against the tide of immigrants at a time when
President Vicente Fox has pressed for new immigration agreements with the United
States, including expanded guest worker programs and the legalization of some
three million Mexican workers.

Critics of the plan, including human rights advocates and political opponents,
charge that it violates the Mexican Constitution, which prohibits the government
from impeding the free movement of its citizens.

Mr. Escobedo confessed that he was unsure about the legalities of the effort,
which is sure to be challenged in court. His job, he said, is to save lives.

"For a long time there have been protests because immigrants are dying and the
government was not doing enough," he said. "We have decided we have to try to do
something, and there are still protests.

"Maybe it won't work," he said of his plan. "But we have to try something."

Patrols made up of state law enforcement officers, civil protection officials
and federal immigration agents will not be empowered to detain immigrants headed
across the desert. However, Mr. Escobedo said, the agents will warn immigrants
about the risks of crossing the border in an attempt to persuade them to turn
back.

New radio towers will be installed across the desert so stranded immigrants can
call for help, and officials intend to conduct regular patrols of the area by
helicopter. The towers will also help agents monitor the movements of
immigrants.

Critics worry that if Baja California is allowed to establish no-go zones, state
governments across the 2,000-mile border will follow suit. Any plan that gives
Mexican law enforcement and immigration officers more control over the movements
of immigrants only puts the immigrants at greater risk of extortion, the critics
charge.

Moreover, they say, such plans could shift the focus of Mexico's immigration
efforts toward law enforcement, and away from complicated economic initiatives
to address the poverty that propels the steady Mexican exodus.

"The government's claims in support of this plan are shallow," said Raul Ramirez
Bahena, the state attorney for human rights in Baja California. "The only thing
that is going to happen is that migrants will find new areas to cross. They will
keep crossing and keep dying everywhere else along the border."

Photographs of some of the desert's most recent victims are kept in a scrapbook
at the office of Felipe Flores, an immigration agent in Tecate.

One photograph shows the bodies of two Dominican men who were found lying almost
naked in the desert at the end of August. The two are stretched out on the
desert floor as if napping in a hammock. One had propped a hand behind his head.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The desert at La Rumorosa, a fearsome route to the United
States, is named for the whispering of the wind as it blows through the canyons.
(Arturo Fuentes for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting La Rumorosa:
Hundreds of immigrants have died in the desert at La Rumorosa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Changes Called Likely In Policy on Immigration

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1049 words


As the nation takes a closer look at who crosses its borders and why,
immigration policy could change in subtle but lasting ways, analysts say.

In the last few years there has been an open-door policy toward foreign visitors
and workers considered vital to the American economy.

But a heightened distrust of foreigners since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
could mean far fewer visas for the millions who come each year to study, work or
visit, and more government monitoring of foreigners' movements once they arrive.

"We are going to try much more to reduce the opportunities for people to take
advantage of the system," said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, a director of the
Migration Policy Institute, a Washington research group.

One long-range result may be broader government powers to detain and deport
noncitizens based on their political associations or activities, measures the
Bush administration has already proposed.

But the attacks' more immediate effect is likely to be an indefinite delay in
the debate about whether to legalize the estimated eight million illegal
immigrants in the country. Part of that debate concerned illegal Mexican
immigrants and the push by Mexico to create a more fluid flow of migration back
and forth across the border.

That issue has now been pushed into the background, though an administration
official insisted last week that discussions with Mexico would continue.

Groups that fiercely opposed allowing illegal immigrants to become legal
residents have recast their arguments to fit the new situation. Before the
attacks, they argued that ineffective border controls and tracking systems had
allowed illegal immigrants from Mexico to overrun the nation.

Hours after the attacks, a leading anti-immigration group, the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, started to transform the argument. It issued a
statement from its executive director, Dan Stein, who said, "The nation's
defense against terrorism has been seriously eroded by the efforts of
open-borders advocates, and the innocent victims of today's terrorist attacks
have paid the price."

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has introduced
legislation to provide American consulates access to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation's criminal database, said the aim was to "ensure that our borders
are secure and our laws are enforced."

But, Mr. Kennedy added, "we need to move forward with our other immigration
agenda, and that includes uniting immigrant families and uniting workers with
employers."

In addition to laws to expand intelligence gathering, measures that might be
considered include better automated border and port systems, improved
intelligence cooperation and increased monitoring of foreigners. Some of these
ideas have been discussed before and put aside as too damaging to trade or too
expensive. Even now, many analysts say, the best response may be to improve
existing systems for screening people trying to enter the country.

"The question is, how complete is the information that's in the database?" said
Doris M. Meissner, who was immigration commissioner in the Clinton
administration. "The lookout database has literally millions of names in it. But
with terrorists, if you don't know who they are, their names are not going to be
in there."

The last big revision of laws affecting immigrants and refugees was in 1996.
Those changes resulted in much less mobility for asylum-seekers, who are more
likely now to be held in detention centers while their cases are decided, and a
substantial increase in Border Patrol and immigration agents at the land
crossings, seaports and airports.

Improvements have also been made in checking the identities of immigrants
against watch lists of suspects in crimes and terrorists, Ms. Meissner said.
Immigration and consular officials already have access to some databases. And
for most international flights, she said, airlines electronically transmit the
passenger manifests to a data system in the United States to be checked against
a lookout list while the planes are in the air.

New investments, some officials said, should be made to keep technology up to
date.

"If we decide we're going to tighten the border between the U.S. and Canada,
that means a lot more agents and inspectors and resources on the border," said
Paul Cellucci, the United States ambassador to Canada. "It would be better to
put those resources into law enforcement and intelligence. To expect that we are
going to catch someone at the border is a needle-in-the-haystack situation."

Some of the most far-reaching changes called for in the 1996 laws were never
enacted, but they may now be revived because they focus on the least regulated
area of nonimmigrant visas. More than 100 people wanted for questioning in the
attacks have been arrested on immigration charges, including staying longer in
the country than their visas allowed.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, for example, is only starting to put
in place a computerized database of the estimated 500,000 foreigners in the
United States on student visas.

The goal was to create a system for catching students who stay illegally after
finishing their studies. But instituting the system was delayed for five years
by disputes with colleges concerning who would collect fees.

Similarly, a plan for a computerized system to catalog each entry and exit at
the nation's borders was reduced last year after it was declared cumbersome and
harmful to commerce.

Discussion may now be revived about creating a so-called North American
perimeter so that foreigners coming to Mexico, Canada or the United States would
face similar visa and entry requirements.

More uniform visa regulations, supporters say, would reduce the possibility that
someone could fly legally into one country and then slip across a less
vigorously patrolled land border into another.

Other measures might limit some visas altogether. Some of the hijacking suspects
had M visas, allowing them to enroll in technical courses. There have been calls
to eliminate that category, though it accounted for only 6,107 visas last year,
a tiny number of the total granted.

Nearly 4.2 million people were granted visas for tourism or business last year.
Another 284,000 received visas to study at American universities.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The issue of the free flow of immigrants from Mexico has been
pushed into the background. A Border Patrol agent near Douglas, Ariz.; Border
Patrol agents in Douglas checking their computers for information on immigrants
stopped at the Mexican border nearby. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Hackensack: Detainee Policy Debated

BYLINE:  By Steve Strunsky (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 107 words


Bergen County is considering accepting more illegal immigrants at its county
jail, which is expanding.

Negotiations were already under way with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which pays the county to house 52 detainees at the jail. The change is
likely to be decided by the next sheriff, who will be elected on Nov. 6. The
Democratic candidate, Ken Zisa, who is a state legislator and the Hackensack
police chief, opposes more detainees. The Republican, Joe Trella, said that in
view of the attacks on Sept. 11 and the possible need to detain more illegal
immigrants, Bergen County should help the agency.   Steve Strunsky (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED;
British Arrest 7 Near Air Base

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Thursday, Sept. 27


The British police arrested six Iraqis and a German on Wednesday after men
described as stowaways were found hiding in a truck outside an air force base in
eastern England used by American forces.

The men were initially held under immigration laws, but were later told they
were being held under the Terrorism Act, which gives the police wider powers.
British television reported early today that the authorities believed the men
were illegal immigrants.

The police said the men were arrested after noises were heard from inside a
truck parked near the gates of R.A.F. Lakenheath in Suffolk late this morning.
The truck had entered Britain earlier today, the police said, but declined to
give further details.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: $20 Million For Immigrant Care

BYLINE:  By Mindy Sink (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 100 words


After a federal agency backed out of paying the medical bills of illegal
immigrants, state lawmakers approved $20 million for hospitals to cover the
immigrants' unpaid emergency room bills.

The state had long paid for such services but did not include the money in the
budget after the federal Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services agreed to
take over financing in the Clinton administration. The financing was to expire
on Oct. 1. Under the Bush administration, the federal government will pay for
care only for certain illegal immigrants, like pregnant women and children.
Mindy Sink (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE NORTHERN BORDER;
Vast U.S.-Canada Border Suddenly Poses a Problem to Patrol Agents

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

DATELINE: SWEETGRASS, Mont., Oct. 3


Raise the issue of illegal immigrants sneaking across the border, and images
come to mind of people wading across the Rio Grande or hiking across a scorching
desert.

But for United States Border Patrol officials like Robert Finley, chief agent
for a nearly 500-mile stretch of the United States-Canadian border here in the
Great Plains, there are other situations to worry about now as he faces new
mandates to secure the border against terrorists.

"There are all kinds of means to get across the prairie illegally," said Mr.
Finley, whose district runs from the Continental Divide in Montana well into
North Dakota. "People use bicycles here, they drive in on snowmobiles. They come
over by horseback."

Mr. Finley's concerns highlight the difficulties officials face as they race to
tighten this country's 5,000-mile northern border.

While Congress is set to triple the number of agents along the world's longest
nonmilitarized boundary, those agents will have to accomplish very different
missions in very different places. In the vast stretches of Rocky Mountain and
Plains states, a more secure border would mean trying to close an open prairie.
At the major urban crossings, it would mean stepping up security at the risk of
creating the gargantuan backups that have occurred in the last three weeks.

And while calls for a crackdown on the border here are understandable, they run
counter to what had been the primary mission for customs, immigration and Border
Patrol agents before the Sept. 11 attacks: to fulfill the promise of the North
American Free Trade Agreement, to make the border as unobtrusive as possible and
to build on the world's largest bilateral trade flow, now $420 billion a year.

But that is no longer true, as Attorney General John Ashcroft and others vow to
make border crossings more rigorous.  While about 8,000 patrol agents are along
the United States-Mexico border, just 300 are on the much longer Canadian front,
which includes Alaska's boundary with western Canada.

"It'd be nice to be able to go 24/7 in some places," said Mr. Finley, noting
that most of the 13 ports of entry in Montana were not staffed from 6 p.m. to 9
a.m. During those hours, some crossings are blocked with a locked gate; others
have only an orange cone to show that they are officially "closed." Patrol
chiefs like Mr. Finley consider themselves lucky to have one agent on duty for
every 50 miles or more of boundary.

The call for a crackdown is posing equally vexing problems at the border's
busiest crossings.

Four such spots -- Blaine, Wash., near Vancouver; Port Huron, Mich.; Detroit;
and Buffalo, N.Y. -- together account for nearly three-quarters of all crossings
between the United States and Canada. Since Sept. 11, each has been the site of
enormous delays, some stretching more than four hours, as customs and
immigration agents have intensified searches. In Detroit, the busiest commercial
entry point from Canada into the United States, the wait at the Ambassador
Bridge into Windsor, Ontario, was about 45 minutes this afternoon.

These delays have disrupted daily routines, because many people near these
crossings live in one country and commute to the other. But their greatest
impact has been economic. Commercial truckers, whose vehicles require intensive
searches, have been slowed considerably. Tourism has been hurt, too. At the
giant Casino Windsor, which draws 80 percent of its clientele from the United
States, business has plummeted since Sept. 11.

"We are now running about 55 percent of normal," said Jim Mundy, a spokesman for
the casino, which has laid off 87 employees. Casino Windsor, just across the
Detroit River, is Windsor's third-largest employer, behind Ford and
Daimler-Chrysler and ahead of General Motors.

Meanwhile, in Niagara Falls, N.Y., several stores at the usually bustling Prime
Outlets Mall, a popular destination for shoppers, say business has been down 50
percent or more in the last three weeks.

Here in Sweetgrass and in nearby del Bonita, where small crossing outposts are
dwarfed by prairie, long lines are not the problem.

At del Bonita, an American visitor was subjected to a 20-minute search of his
vehicle and luggage by a Canadian immigration inspector, as well as a computer
check of his driver's license. The procedure caused a delay for exactly one car.

The challenge here is the vast geography that needs to be covered.  "There's
going to be some cracks," Mr. Finley said. "Everybody knows that. We do the best
we can with the manpower we have." Even a tripling of the forces, would still
leave large areas unmonitored.

Given that many more illegal immigrants try to come across the Mexican border,
according to federal estimates, such disparities are understandable.

Still, the Canadian border is not unknown to terrorists. Participants in the
World Trade Center bombing eight years ago appeared to have used Canadian
immigration papers to gain access to the United States. Ahmed Ressam, who was
arrested by United States customs officials in December 1999 with a carload of
explosives, and convicted, had tried to enter Washington State by a ferry from
Victoria, British Columbia.

In the nation's capital today, the chiefs of the Customs Service and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service told a Senate subcommittee that they
needed more agents and better technology to guard the border. But some experts
are skeptical about how much of a difference additional agents would make.

"It will have a placebo effect more than anything else," said Demetrios
Papademetriou, co-director of the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington
nonprofit group that studies immigration and border issues. "It may make us feel
a little better. There is no way you can truly secure that border."

One proposal, advanced by Paul Cellucci, the United States ambassador to Canada,
would require the two countries to so enmesh their immigration laws and
monitoring procedures that the border itself would be all but invisible.

After Sept. 11, such concepts are even more firmly rooted in the realm of
fantasy. Even the more realistic goal outlined in 1996 by Canada's then-minister
of national revenue, David Anderson -- "a hassle-free border for honest
travelers and businesses, and a brick wall for those who try to smuggle or break
other laws at this border" -- seems far off.

Congressional negotiators have agreed on the outlines of a plan for increasing
border agents and providing the patrol, customs and immigration agencies with
better technology.  Some of the technology exists, such as remote-controlled
video cameras, motion sensors and voice-recognition systems that could allow
local residents to cross at all hours, even while detecting potential intruders.

For now, though, the focus is on agents to police the border. "All the
technology in the world doesn't do me any good," said Mr. Finley of the Border
Patrol, "if I don't have an agent to respond to it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert V. Kuntz, a federal border agent, in Del Bonita, Mont.
(Larry Beckner for The New York Times); Trucks were backed up yesterday about
six miles, or 45 minutes, near the Ambassador Bridge, which links Windsor,
Ontario, and Detroit. (Don McArthur/The Windsor Star)(pg. B7); A truck left Del
Bonita, Mont., yesterday after the driver was questioned by the border's port
director. The crossing is 40 miles from Cut Bank, Mont., the next American city.
(Larry Beckner for The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 5, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRANTS;
Testing The System Of Relief

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 599 words


They are among the legions of Lower Manhattan jobless -- the three Peruvians who
used to clean apartments at Battery Park City, the Mexican cook from the
concourse under the trade center, the pizza delivery man who whisked large
pizzas up and down the towers.

Those workers, among hundreds who stream into the offices of Associacion Tepeyac
day after day, are among those who worked off the books. They have no Social
Security numbers. Most lack a driver's license. They have no pay stubs; they
were paid in cash.

As a result, they have had a thornier trip through the maze of disaster relief
than most have. For those who worked off the books, seeking relief can mean
openly declaring their illegal immigration status. And they must deal with
relief workers, who, constantly on guard for hustlers, require some
documentation.

Vast confusion has reigned at relief centers across the city, immigrants'
advocates say. Sometimes, they say, relief workers are unaware of what kinds of
benefits are available for illegal immigrants, and what kinds of documents they
need to bring. Sometimes, those who lack documents simply walk out the door when
they are asked to furnish a Social Security number; in some cases, they do not
actually need one. In the most dire cases, the families of illegal immigrants
who are missing have been unable to obtain a letter from an employer.

The executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, Margie McHugh,
said, "It's practically inevitable where we would have this problem -- where
volunteer workers don't have enough of the technical information they need to
help people with cases complicated by facts such as immigration status."

Some immigrants' advocates have called on federal officials to grant amnesty to
the families of the dead. Speaking to a church full of his compatriots yesterday
afternoon, President Vicente Fox of Mexico gave a nod to those demands. He told
the crowd that the "bilateral agenda" of legalizing Mexican immigrants would
resume as soon as possible.

Part of the confusion stems from a patchwork of relief. Funds from the State
Crime Victims Board, state officials said, will be disbursed to families of the
victims, including the injured, regardless of immigration status. They are also
entitled to state-funded psychological counseling. But aid from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency is not available to those here illegally.

At Tepeyac's offices the other night, Joel Magallan, a Jesuit who founded the
group, circled the crowded room, doling out prepaid telephone cards and advice:
tell the truth about your immigration status, try to get a letter from your
former employer, apply for all the disaster aid you are entitled to.

For Josefina Mila, the housekeeper, for instance, doing that means soliciting
affidavits from those whose homes she cleaned. (She cannot reach any of them by
phone, nor can she cross the police lines to knock on their doors.)

For Martin Andrade, 20, the pizza delivery man, it means proving how much he
made, off the books, at a pizzeria: $275 a week in cash, for 11-hour-shifts, 5
days a week, plus tips.

He has not been paid for his last week's work. Already, he has borrowed $1,200
to pay rent and buy food. Every restaurant he goes to now, looking for work,
they tell him they are firing, not hiring. "All my plans went down," he said.

He pulled out of his wallet a thick stack of trade center identification cards,
one for each time he made a delivery. His most recent delivery was to Cantor
Fitzgerald, on Sept. 4. Eerie and anachronistic, the cards are his best pieces
of identification.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vicente Fox of Mexico paused yesterday beside notices
for the missing while visiting St. Bernard's Church on West 14th Street.
(Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 7, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legal Residency Hopes of Millions Dashed

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1122 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 6


In the summer, a bolt of hope shot through this city as the Bush administration
edged toward granting legal residency to millions of illegal immigrants from
Mexico and perhaps other countries.

When the movement seemed to slow, President Vicente Fox of Mexico, in talks at
the White House, sought to rebuild momentum for the proposal that would give
individuals and families the prospect of moving out of the shadows and into
mainstream working-class life.

But that momentum has died. Not only has the plan been abandoned since the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, but the White House and Congress are moving
rapidly toward making the immigration laws even tighter, out of fear of
terrorist attacks.

Maria Blanco, national senior counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said the crisis had sent a chill through both legal and
illegal Hispanic immigrants because the message coming from Washington now is
that the greatest threats to the country may be coming from foreigners.

"People are very disappointed that, so soon after the debate seemed to be moving
forward on immigration, it has taken a few steps backwards," Ms. Blanco said.
"Latinos don't want to be tainted by this broad brush."

What is particularly disappointing to some advocates for undocumented
immigrants, they say, is that few groups have demonstrated more support for the
United States during the crisis, often donating time and money at churches and
organizations.

"Yes, people want to stay out of the way more and lie low now," said Mario
Matute, the executive director of the Pacoima Workforce Initiative, a job
training program in a San Fernando Valley neighborhood known as a gateway for
illegal immigrants. "But you know what's interesting is that they talk more
about being concerned about the attacks and the pain they feel for the victims.
They're responding like other Americans, even if they may have more problems
now."

For the immigrants, the sudden shift has pushed them back into lives that are an
often clumsy balance of dreams and dreams denied, of an eagerness to join in and
the pressures that keep them on the fringes.

In recent interviews in the Los Angeles area, a number of immigrants who have
lived illegally in the country for years described how they have to navigate
between an open society and the underground economy.

The lives they described are surprisingly close to the mainstream but that leave
many basics, like health insurance or a bank account, out of their reach. They
improvise, realizing that even the things they do have could be lost in a moment
of carelessness, or bad luck. All the immigrants spoke on condition that their
full names not be used.

Maria, a 17-year-old high school student who is an illegal immigrant from
Mexico, spoke in an emotional interview of all the things she says she is forced
to remain silent about when she talks with her friends: why she cannot get her
driver's license, or go on a class trip to Acapulco, or attend her dream
college, the University of California at Santa Barbara, despite her excellent
grades.

Maria's life is one of concealment and anxiety as about whether she will end up
working in garment factories like her parents or realize her dream of earning a
degree in psychology and achieve her ultimate goal, running for office.

Rocio came to Los Angeles from Mexico 10 years ago, crossing the border in the
trunk of a smuggler's car. After working in garment sweat shops, she discovered
her talent, sales. She said she now works in telemarketing, selling cosmetics,
jewelry and clothing by telephone.

But her dreams are hampered by her illegal status. She could not open a bank
account or sign up for utilities at her rented home -- or sign a lease --
without a Social Security card. So, she said, she paid several hundred dollars
for a bogus Social Security card, which she bought at MacArthur Park near
downtown, where there is an open market in the phony numbers. But every time she
uses it, she said, she worries that she will be caught.

She and her husband are still trying to create a normal family. Her daughter is
now in the third grade and attends a public elementary school, where she is
eligible for free meals. But the family has no health insurance, and even minor
illnesses are a constant worry.

Rodolfo, 36, moved here three years ago from Mexico and lives with his mother,
who is a legal resident. He said he gets many of his jobs standing on street
corners and frequently works at construction sites. One of his greatest concerns
is that if his boss decides not to pay him at the end of the day, which he said
had happened several times, he has no recourse.

"All I want is to get what I'm owed," Rodolfo said, sitting next to the giant
television and the new stereo in his mother's handsome rented apartment here.

Maria has ridden an emotional roller coaster many times. Recently, California
instituted a program under which all students who graduate in the top 4 percent
of their high school classes are guaranteed entry to state colleges. Maria said
her expectations soared, until she realized that she was ineligible for
financial aid and inexpensive in-state tuition rates.

"So now, when my friends talk about college, I get kind of silent and just
listen to them," she said. "I take A.P. classes like the rest of them," she
said, referring to the more difficult advanced placement courses some students
take. "I get good grades like them. They'll go to their dream schools. I know I
can't."

Carlos came here from Peru. He was a member of the city council of his
medium-sized town, he said, and he had a grocery wholesale business. He came
here a year ago to live with a sister, who has legal status, after the Peruvian
economy sank and his businesses crumbled.

Since arriving and overstaying his tourist visa, he said, he has taken some odd
jobs, including work as a security guard. But his real love, he said, is
telemarketing, and he is setting up his own business. He found a bank that
allowed him to open an account. He talked his way into getting a driver's
license, and he bought a car with cash, though he has no insurance.

Another one of his sisters, Haydee, came here illegally three years ago. Though
she said she had a university degree from Peru in social work she works in a
hospital kitchen but fewer hours than she would like. She said she had lost one
car after being pulled over by the police. She had no license and the car was
impounded. She did not dare try to get it back.

"I gave up some things leaving Peru, and you have to give up things here, too,"
Haydee said. "I worry about what I may have to give up next if something
happens. That's what you think about. What you want to work for but what you
could lose any time."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haydee, who came to the United States illegally three years ago,
says she earned a university degree in her native Peru but now works in the
kitchen of a Los Angeles hospital. A brother is also in this country illegally.
(Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 15, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Immigrants Face New Set of Fears

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1086 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Oct. 12


The whole nation has been anxious this past month, but for millions of Mexican
immigrants around the country there have been added fears.

Roundups of illegal immigrants in Colorado and tough enforcement of immigration
laws at workplaces in Oregon have led to anguished, and apparently unfounded,
concerns that the government is cracking down on Hispanic workers in response to
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

But the truly punishing repercussion of those attacks has been a round of
sweeping layoffs in the airline and hotel industries and other industries with
large Mexican labor forces. One national union estimates that a third of its
265,000 members, most of whom are Hispanic immigrants, have been dismissed since
the attacks.

The layoffs have posed harsh choices for Mexican immigrants as they consider
whether to live with joblessness in the United States, where food stamps, health
benefits and other services are mostly unavailable to them, or return to Mexico,
where the outlook is still more foreboding. Hundreds of thousands of jobs in
Mexico have been eliminated as the American slowdown has sparked a serious
recession south of the border, not only in the villages that depend on money
sent home by Mexican workers in the United States but also in the maquiladoras,
the border assembly plants, where employment is off about 20 percent from last
year.

The hardship began in late September for Dario Elizalde and his wife, Olga, when
they returned to their home in a trailer park in Avon, Colo., after visiting
relatives in Mexico. Olga, who had earned $7 an hour scrubbing toilets in
vacation homes, was dismissed by her employer, who said tourists had canceled
fall trips to the Rockies. Mr. Elizalde, who had earned $12 an hour framing
houses, was also laid off.

"Its like we're in purgatory," Olga said in Spanish. "We don't know if we're
staying or leaving."

The government registered a sharp drop in the number of illegal immigrants
detained along the Southwest border in the first eight days of October -- 10,622
people, less than half the 22,912 detained in the same period last year. The
drop may indicate that many workers are not trying to travel north, at least for
now, because American agents have been searching border crossers more vigorously
since Sept. 11.

But others may be staying home because they have heard about the layoffs of
thousands of Mexicans in the United States. Leaders of the Hotel Employees and
Restaurant Employees International Union in nine major cities reported last week
that between 25 and 40 percent of the union's heavily Latino work force in those
cities had been laid off.

"This is devastating," said Maria Elena Durazo, a national vice president of the
union, which is setting up several relief centers to collect food for unemployed
workers. "Nothing like this has ever happened in the memory of our union's
leaders."

Thousands of Mexican workers have been dismissed from airport restaurants and
parking lots and from companies that prepare in-flight meals. Others have had
full-time jobs cut to part-time.

Ramiro Rivera, a father of two who waits tables in one Houston hotel and washes
dishes in another, was working 80 hours a week before Sept. 11. Both hotels have
trimmed his hours, to a total of 32 a week. "I'm surviving, but barely," he
said.

Other industries with large Hispanic work forces have not seen large layoffs.
Meat packing and poultry processing plants concentrated in the Great Plains and
the Southeast are operating normally, although construction has slowed.

Still, some workers are returning to Mexico to wait out the storm. At a meeting
that brought hundreds of Mexican workers together in a Roman Catholic church
near Vail, Colo., last week, an unemployed carpenter said he was leaving for
home and asked Leticia Calzada, the Mexican consul general in Denver, whether
authorities would levy a tax on his power tools when he returned home. (She said
they would not.)

Ms. Calzada said she received scores of anguished calls from workers fearing
mass deportations after 29 Mexican dishwashers and janitors working at the
Denver airport with false documents were detained on Sept. 19 and sent home.

Mexican workers were involved in at least two other immigration enforcement
actions in recent weeks, one small and the other sweeping. But nothing suggests
that the terrorist attacks have resulted in harsher treatment of Hispanic
immigrants.

The same week as the airport roundup, immigration agents detained and deported
more than a dozen Mexican laborers outside a slaughterhouse in Fort Morgan,
Colo., northeast of Denver, workers said in interviews. Nina Pruneda-Muniz, a
spokeswoman in Denver for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, confirmed
the detentions but said they were part of a long-running criminal investigation.

In a broader action that also raised fears that authorities had begun to enforce
immigration laws more harshly, 834 Mexican workers in Portland, Ore., most of
them janitors, were dismissed in recent days. But the mass dismissals resulted
from an audit of 41 companies by the immigration service, begun in July, which
determined that the workers lacked valid work permits, said Karen Kraushaar, a
national agency spokeswoman. The agency has not altered its enforcement tactics
with regard to Latin American immigrants since Sept. 11, she said.

At last week's meeting near Vail, Ms. Calzada repeated what President Vicente
Fox of Mexico had said on a visit just before Sept. 11: that the United States
could benefit both nations by granting legal status to three million
undocumented Mexicans. But Tom Stone, a local county commissioner, told the
largely Mexican audience that Americans now favor tightening, rather than
relaxing, immigration laws.

Ms. Calzada has learned how the attacks have emboldened some anti-immigrant
groups.

After ski resort owners invited her to address a Sept. 20 gathering in Snowmass,
Colo., she received a letter from Mike McGarry, a leader of a group that opposes
growth in Mexican immigration, warning that it would be "grossly inappropriate"
for a Mexican official to speak in public after "the murderous destruction"
caused by "illegal aliens."

"I don't like the idea of Fox telling us to legalize Mexicans who compete
unfairly with the native American worker," Mr. McGarry said in an interview.

Yet Ms. Calzada said she had been warmly received everywhere she had appeared
recently, a sign of continued good will toward immigrants.

"Americans as a people have noble hearts," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lisa Payne, an organizer with the hotel and restaurant workers
union, at a relief center in Santa Monica, Calif. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 19, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Guilty Of Fatal Smuggling

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 54 words


A Mexican man pleaded guilty to charges that he smuggled a group of 25 illegal
immigrants across the border from Mexico and then abandoned 14, who died in the
scorching Arizona desert. The 20-year-old smuggler, Jesus Lopez-Ramos, could get
up to 10 years in prison on each of 25 counts when he is sentenced on Jan. 15.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 25, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINED;
Pakistani Man Dies in I.N.S. Custody

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 442 words


An illegal immigrant from Pakistan who was picked up for questioning by federal
officials after the trade center attacks was found dead in his New Jersey jail
cell Tuesday, the authorities said yesterday.

Law enforcement officials said that the man had offered nothing of value to
their investigation into the terrorist attacks and that he had agreed to be sent
back home.

A preliminary autopsy by the New Jersey medical examiner's office indicated that
the man, Mohammed Rafiq Butt, 55, died of heart failure, said the Hudson County
first assistant prosecutor, Terrence Hull. Mr. Butt was found shortly after 11
a.m. Tuesday, lying face up on his cot in a jail cell he shared with a man also
held on immigration charges.

"There are no signs of trauma, no visible signs of foul play and no signs of
anthrax," Mr. Hull said yesterday. Final toxicological results are pending.
Nasal swabs on Mr. Butt and on his cellmate, whom the authorities would not
identify, tested negative.

Mr. Butt, a restaurant worker who lived in the South Ozone Park section of
Queens, arrived in the country a little more than a year ago and overstayed his
tourist visa, immigration officials said.

His nephew, Mohammed Bilal, 38, of Brooklyn, said Mr. Butt had been picked up at
his home, along with one of his roommates, a couple of days after Sept. 11. When
asked for identification, Mr. Bilal said, Mr. Butt furnished only a copy of his
passport.

Mr. Butt was among the hundreds of illegal immigrants picked up by the federal
authorities in the days after the attacks. The Hudson County jail in Kearny has
roughly 280 of these detainees, most of them taken into custody since Sept. 11.

Immigration officials said yesterday that the F.B.I. had questioned Mr. Butt and
found that he had no knowledge useful to their investigation. But because he
overstayed his visa, the Immigration and Naturalization Service held him and
placed him in deportation proceedings.

An I.N.S. spokesman in Washington, Russell A. Bergeron Jr., said that Mr. Butt
had waived his right to a hearing, had not sought legal counsel and had also
waived his right to have the Pakistani Consulate informed of his detention.

Yesterday, Mr. Butt's nephew, Mr. Bilal, wondered aloud why the I.N.S. kept Mr.
Butt in jail for a month when he volunteered to be sent back. He also said that
Mr. Butt had not complained of health problems.

Mr. Bergeron said Mr. Butt was being detained until the Pakistani Consulate
could issue a valid passport. But the Pakistani vice consul, Irfan Ahmed, said
his office had not received any inquiries about Mr. Butt's documents and had not
been contacted before Mr. Butt's death.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iraqi Accused of Smuggling Hundreds in Mideast to U.S.

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1020 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Oct. 25


An Iraqi-born smuggler led hundreds of illegal immigrants from the Middle East
across the Mexican border into the United States in the 1990's, prosecution
documents filed in a Federal conspiracy trial here say.

The Iraqi, George Tajirian, who forged an alliance with a Mexican immigration
officer, smuggled Palestinian, Jordanian, Syrian, Iraqi, Yemeni and other
undocumented immigrants through Mexico and into the United States, sending them
to wade across the Rio Grande or pass border checkpoints with counterfeit travel
documents from Greece, Mexico and other nations, the prosecutors said.

Mr. Tajirian appears to have had no political or other agenda, and prosecutors
have provided no evidence that any of the people he smuggled had terrorist ties.
But prosecutors said he had paid little heed to whether his clients were
criminals, merely raising his smuggling fees when he learned of such
complications.

The record of prosecution proceedings against Mr. Tajirian and Angel Molina
Paramo, the Mexican official who prosecutors say was a major confederate,
suggest that America's Southwestern border has been a thoroughfare for hundreds
of Middle Eastern migrants crossing illegally into the United States in recent
years.

Mr. Tajirian, who is a naturalized Mexican citizen, was arrested in Miami in
1998, pleaded guilty to smuggling undocumented foreigners in a plea agreement
that erased conspiracy and other charges, and is serving 13 years. Mr. Molina
was extradited to Texas by the Mexican government this spring. A federal judge
here accepted his guilty plea last week in a plea bargain, and sentencing is set
for next month. Mr. Tajirian's wife, who is a Mexican citizen, and a fourth
person accused in the conspiracy, a Lebanese woman who ran Mr. Tajirian's travel
agency in Quito, Ecuador, are fugitives.

The documents pertaining to Mr. Tajirian's smuggling operations were presented
to the court in the case against Mr. Molina and the two fugitives. Among the
documents was one in which federal prosecutors said they collected detailed
evidence on 132 illegal immigrants Mr. Tajirian smuggled into the United States
from 1996 through 1998.

The prosecutors estimated that since he began to build his smuggling
organization in 1980 he had led more than 1,000 Middle East natives across the
southwest frontier.

Mr. Tajirian showed "no scruples" in deciding whom he would smuggle into the
United States, Assistant United States Attorney J. Brandy Gardes wrote in a
brief before Mr. Tajirian's sentencing in 1998. One citizen of Yemen whom Mr.
Tajirian brought to America in December 1997 was wanted for genocide in South
Yemen, the prosecutors said. Mr. Tajirian, the prosecutors said, was aware of
this and, accordingly, raised his fee. A Syrian native who was smuggled across
the frontier in September 1996 had a criminal record in Germany.

"The tightening of our borders and our internal security," Ms. Gardes wrote, "is
a priority and the desire of the American public. The defendant's criminal
activity, through its sheer magnitude and cavalier attitude, struck deeply at
these goals."

In documents presented to the court, prosecutors said Mr. Tajirian routinely
charged clients $10,000 to $15,000 or more. They documented earnings of $230,000
from 1996 through 1998, and estimated that he grossed as much as $2 million
during that period. Prosecutors say Mr. Tajirian is 60 years old. He says he is
70.

Statistics gathered by the Immigration and Naturalization Service suggest that
citizens from countries with majority Islamic populations seek to gain entry to
the United States illegally much more frequently at the Canadian border than at
the Mexican. Last year, American agents detained 254 undocumented immigrants,
from 16 Middle Eastern countries, Sudan, Pakistan and Malaysia, at Canadian
border checkpoints, according to the I.N.S. statistics.

By contrast, at the Mexican border, agents detained 90 undocumented immigrants
last year from countries with majority Islamic populations: Egypt, Iran, Iraq,
Jordan and Pakistan. The Mideast migrants were moving in a human tide that was
overwhelmingly Latin. Some 99.9 percent of the 1.64 million undocumented
immigrants detained at the southwest border last year were from Mexico and 16
other Latin countries.

The documents presented here detail more than any other case the nature of the
smuggling pipeline by which illegal Middle Eastern immigrants cross the
Southwestern border.

Mr. Tajirian, who was born in Baghdad, came to the United States and settled in
Detroit, where he was convicted in the late 1970's for illegal possession of
visas and served eight months in prison. Almost immediately after his release,
Mr. Tajirian began building his smuggling network, prosecutors said.

He recruited Middle Eastern clients in Jordan, Syria, Palestine and Greece, the
prosecutors said, and he established travel agencies in Havana and Mexico City
as well as Quito. In a typical smuggling transaction, Mr. Tajirian would recruit
his clients, arrange lodging for them in Greece, Havana, Quito and Mexico City,
and eventually arrange for local smugglers in northern Mexico to bring them into
the United States, usually at El Paso or Laredo in Texas or through Tijuana,
south of San Diego.

Mr. Molina helped by arranging for Mr. Tajirian's clients to pass unchallenged
through the Mexico City airport, where Mr. Molina was based as an immigration
officer until his arrest in 1999. He also helped the clients make contact with
local smugglers in northern Mexico.

Mr. Tajirian's lawyer, Francisco Macias, did not answer telephone messages left
at his El Paso office. --------------------

8 Charged in Immigration Sting

CHICAGO, Oct. 25, (The New York Times) -- A Chicago man charged with making fake
identification for illegal immigrants nationwide helped the authorities in a
sting that led to the arrest of eight people. United States Attorney Patrick
Fitzgerald said that the man, Joseph M. Kalady, 61, made fake birth certificates
that were used to obtain Social Security cards and passports. Mr. Fitzgerald
said each customer paid $5,000 for the phony documents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BULLETIN BOARD;
Illegal Immigrants at CUNY

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 101 words


In the wake of the terrorist attacks, State Senator FRANK PADAVAN from Queens,
has told the City University of New York that allowing illegal immigrants to
study at CUNY was both a national security issue and "an insult to every citizen
and legal immigrant seeking a higher education."

CUNY said it admitted qualified foreigners without regard to immigration status,
and that more than 2,700 illegal immigrants were enrolled last year. The
university said the approach reflected the city's historic support for
immigrants and conformed to policy laid out by Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1989.
Karen W. Arenson

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
For Many of Those Held in a Legal Tangle, Little Is Revealed

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1169 words


With hundreds of people detained since the Sept. 11 attacks, and many of them
still in custody, there are profound differences in their legal situations --
depending on their nationality, why they are being held and where.

Legally, those detained fall into three categories: a small number held as
material witnesses, about 200 on immigration violations, and the majority held
on federal, state or local criminal charges unrelated to the attacks.

But as a practical matter, there are far more distinctions. At one end of the
spectrum are citizens of Saudi Arabia, whose embassy has aggressively tried to
find them and retained well-established private lawyers to represent them.

At the other end are those held on immigration violations who may not have
lawyers at all. Unlike those facing criminal charges, they have no right to
government-assigned legal counsel. And lawyers fear that many may be in
detention without the knowledge of a lawyer or their embassy.

Since Sept. 11, 235 people have been detained nationwide for immigration
violations, and 185 of them are still in custody.

The government has not revealed the names or nationalities of those detained,
nor said how many of the non-Immigration and Naturalization Service detainees
have been released or on what charges they are being held.

In many cases, people arrested on relatively minor state criminal charges, for
which they would normally have been quickly allowed out on bail, have been
denied bond. Some have had their files sealed.

In Warrensburg, Mo., where Adel Badri faced state bank-fraud charges for
depositing three bad checks, federal authorities took over the case before Mr.
Badri could post bond. Although the Saudi government authorized a $100,000 check
to post bond and $10,000 to pay for legal representation, Mr. Badri is being
held without bond, his file sealed.

While few non-Saudi detainees have had that level of assistance, the government
said all of those arrested had access to lawyers.

Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the I.N.S., said those detained on immigration
violations had been told of their right to counsel, given a list of local
organizations that might provide free legal services and provided an opportunity
to use a telephone.

But immigration lawyers say many groups listed do not represent people who have
been detained.

"In our region, on the list they give out, we're the only one that provides
legal services to undocumented low-income individuals, and we're also the only
one that accepts collect calls," said Mary Meg McCarthy, of the Midwest
Immigrant and Human Rights Center in Chicago. "It's really hard for us to get a
grasp on who's there, since they're moving them around a lot, and they're all
spread out in different jails."

Janet Sabel, who heads the immigration unit at the Legal Aid Society in New
York, said her group had found people who were not represented and was trying to
find lawyers for them.

In some jails, lawyers say, detainees have had little opportunity to make calls.
In Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin, immigration officials cut off all lawyer
visits and phone calls for a week after the attacks.

And many of those detained on immigration violations are placed in solitary
confinement until the Federal Bureau of Investigation has cleared them.

"We had a client picked up Sept. 16, a Tunisian man who had overstayed on a
tourist visa, who was held in solitary confinement with the lights on all day,"
said Vicky Dobrin, a Seattle lawyer. "And we believe at least a week passed
before he was able to use the phone, so no one knew where he was."

Mr. Bergeron of the I.N.S. said decisions about solitary confinement were made
case by case, sometimes for the protection of the person involved. And he said
that while they might not have the same access to telephones, they were not
denied all opportunity for communication.

Karen Pennington, a Dallas lawyer who represents two Palestinian detainees, said
that one of her clients had told her that the detainees shared one telephone
line and that one day when he had picked up the phone to dial out, he found
another man on the line. Ms. Pennington said her client told her the man told
him in Arabic that he had not been able to tell anyone where he was.

While those detained on immigration violations have a right to contact their
government representatives, lawyers say many never do because they do not expect
help, are embarrassed or hope to seek asylum in another country.

"The first impulse usually would not be to call the embassy," said Donna
Lipinski, a Denver lawyer who was contacted by the Saudi Embassy after being
retained to represent two detained Saudis. "So there may very well be a number
of people detained who are not known."

For Saudis, embassy help is readily available. Muddassir Siddiqui, legal counsel
to the embassy, has hired criminal defense lawyers in many cities to represent
Saudis detained on material-witness or criminal charges. The embassy has also
hired Ismail Laher, a Washington immigration lawyer, to coordinate a network of
immigration lawyers for those detained for immigration violations.

Neither Mr. Laher nor Mr. Siddiqui would say how many Saudi citizens they were
helping. But Mr. Siddiqui expressed frustration over the embassy's difficulties
in learning how many Saudis had been detained.

"We do not have that large a group that we know of," he said. "What worries
everybody here is that either the Saudi connection is being blown out of
proportion in the media, or we don't know about other who have been detained. We
are supposed to be informed as soon as a Saudi is taken in custody. But that's
not always being done, so most of the time it's a call from a relative or friend
or neighbor, and then we have to spend quite a lot of time locating the person."

Spokesmen for the embassies of several other Middle Eastern countries say they
are aware of only a handful of their citizens in detention, and are trying to
find out how many more there may be.

"We could provide some help if we were asked," said Mahmoud Zayed of the
Egyptian Embassy, "but no one has asked us yet to help find a lawyer or pay for
a lawyer. We don't think we have a full list of those detained."

Lawyers say many of the detainees have been held for weeks, even after the
F.B.I. has cleared them of involvement in the attacks and of even the most minor
charges.

And lawyers say they are encountering other unusual obstacles, too. In Tucson,
for example, where John Crow represented an Egyptian and a Palestinian detained
after crossing the border illegally, the judge set bond in both cases -- but
when the families tried to pay, their bond was refused and they were told no one
was being released.

"The families came and asked me what was going on, and I said I had no idea,
because it had never happened before and it was illegal," Mr. Crow said. "We
were getting ready to file a habeas petition. But then, on the tenth day of
trying, the families were finally able to pay and these guys were released."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 3, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

CUNY Raises Tuition Rates For Foreigners Here Illegally

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 705 words


After a policy review prompted by the events of Sept. 11, the City University of
New York is about to raise tuition for students who are illegal immigrants.

The university, which announced the move in a memorandum sent yesterday to
CUNY's trustees, campus presidents and other administrators, said it was raising
the rates to comply with a five-year-old federal law requiring that illegal
immigrants not be given preferential tuition treatment over students from out of
state.

CUNY's general counsel, Frederick P. Schaffer, began to review the university's
policies regarding foreign students after the terrorist attacks. "We are doing
this to comply with the law," he said.

Currently, CUNY charges illegal immigrants its lower, in-state tuition rate if
they can show that they have lived in New York State for at least 12 months or
have attended high school in the state for at least two semesters. Beginning
next semester, they must pay the higher, out-of-state rate.

Tuition for state residents is $1,250 per semester at CUNY's two-year community
colleges and $1,600 per semester at its four-year colleges. Students who live
outside the state are charged $1,538 per semester at the community colleges and
$3,400 per semester at the four-year colleges.

Michael A. Olivas, a law professor at the University of Houston Law Center and
director of its Institute for Higher Education Law and Governance, said
yesterday that he thought CUNY was being unnecessarily restrictive in its new
policy.

"It's a very narrow reading of the federal statute and I urge them to read it as
expansively as possible, like Texas and California," he said.

Both states passed laws this year that will make students eligible for in-state
tuition rates after they have lived in those states at least three years, he
said.

"That is better than nothing, but it is a long time for someone who in all other
respects lives and works here and pays taxes," Mr. Olivas said.

"To charge them out-of-state tuition and allow them to attend ignores their
poverty," Mr. Olivas added. "The only way they have a chance to attend -- even
if they have in-state tuition -- is through extraordinary sacrifice and efforts
on their parts."

CUNY, whose mission has long been to educate poor people, including immigrants,
said it did not know how many illegal immigrants were enrolled this year. But
last year, 2,788 out of the nearly 200,000 CUNY students identified themselves
that way. Since CUNY does not require proof of a student's status, it does not
know how many of its other students are in the United States illegally.

The university asks students at registration whether they are United States
citizens. If they are not, they are asked about their visa status.

Mr. Olivas estimates that 25,000 illegal immigrants are enrolled in public
universities and community colleges in the United States, with the heaviest
concentrations in Texas and California.

He said that while some may have come to the United States shortly before
enrolling in college, many have grown up in the United States and attended
public schools. A 1982 Supreme Court ruling allowed children without
documentation to enroll in public schools without regard to their immigration
status.

"We're really talking about kids who have had to be here many, many years," Mr.
Olivas said, adding that typically, the parents of these children came to the
United States, started working and paying taxes, and then brought their children
here.

CUNY's policy of charging illegal immigrants the lower rate reflected the city's
historic embrace of immigrants and conformed to a policy laid out by Mayor
Edward I. Koch in 1989 and reaffirmed by Mayors David N. Dinkins and Rudolph W.
Giuliani.

In reviewing the policy, Mr. Schaffer came across a brief section of a 1996
immigration law that said illegal immigrants should not be eligible for
educational benefits not available to American citizens from other states, CUNY
officials said.

When the law was passed, CUNY lawyers reviewed it and decided that the
university should not make changes until regulations were issued to carry out
the law. Mr. Schaffer said he concluded, however, that at this point the
university had no choice but to change its tuition policy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

CITYPEOPLE;
Weeks of Grief, Then Joy

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1384 words


ON Tuesday, Oct. 27, Mariana Aguilar arrived in New York from the outskirts of
Cuenca, Ecuador, to mourn three of her eight sons and daughters, undocumented
immigrants who were killed in the attack on the World Trade Center.

Or so she believed.

The next day, she discovered that all were alive, and she was tearfully reunited
with them for the first time since they had left home years ago.

The story made it onto the front page of El Diario, the Spanish-language daily
in New York. But as some readers celebrated what seemed like a miracle, others
had their doubts. So many bizarre tales emerged after the events of Sept. 11. In
the six weeks after the tragedy, it seemed unlikely that none of the children
had called their 60-year-old mother, a small woman with jet black hair and a
deeply wrinkled face who lived in a rural district outside Ecuador's third
largest city.

The lack of communication that brought Ms. Aguilar weeks of grief and then
overwhelming joy may have been partly caused by the behavior of her sons and
daughters. But certain aspects of the lives of undocumented immigrants --
poverty, secretiveness, even paranoia -- may also have contributed to the long
weeks of silence.

According to an account of events pieced together through conversations with Ms.
Aguilar and several of her relatives, four of her children, who asked to be
identified only by their first names, were at or near the trade center when the
planes hit. Giovanni, 28, had arrived in his car, which was uninsured and
registered under someone else's name, to begin his day as a messenger. Two
sisters, Rosa, 30, and Maria, 26 were going to their maintenance jobs in the
trade center. Carlos, 23, was a few blocks away en route to his job for a
furniture-repair company.

All four made it out, emotionally devastated but physically unharmed. They
returned to their separate apartments in Queens neighborhoods like Elmhurst and
Corona, where jerry-rigged curtains or plywood walls separated them from their
roommates. All but Carlos had lost their jobs, and although none appeared to be
injured, all four were in shock.

The siblings had arrived in this country separately in the mid-90's, with the
help of traffickers of illegal immigrants known as coyotes. A couple of the
children still owed money for the trip; in fact, Rosa's coyote had seized her
parents' house in Ecuador, forcing them into a makeshift shack nearby. All four
siblings had left children behind in Ecuador, where Ms. Aguilar's four other
children live, and they regularly sent back money to support them; Ms. Aguilar
and her husband cared for three of the grandchildren; others stayed with
in-laws.

Ms. Aguilar last heard from her children on Sept. 3, before her annual
pilgrimage to the Feast of the Virgin of the Swan, in nearby Loja. They promised
to call her soon after she got back. When she returned on Sept. 9, she was
hoping for a call within a few days. None came.

On Sept. 11, when Ms. Aguilar learned of the attack in New York, she recalled
conversations with her daughters about their workplace. "If you could only see
the twin towers like we do," they'd say. The mother would reply, "How beautiful
they must look."

"I was so worried that they hadn't called, not my children, not my in-laws,
nobody," Ms. Aguilar said in an interview. Because she did not have her
children's phone numbers or addresses, she could not contact them on her own.
She repeatedly notified the provincial government that her children seemed to be
missing, but they had no information.

September faded into October. Still no calls, and the few hundred dollars a
month she was used to receiving from New York to support her grandchildren did
not arrive. In mid-October, she said that word came from Laura Garray Rivera,
the executive secretary for the provincial government, that Rosa, Carlos and
several in-laws were dead. Ms. Garray Rivera said this week that the government
in Quito had given her the information. A notice of their death appeared in the
local papers. Ms. Aguilar feared that the two other children had died as well.
Soon, reporters from Ecuadorean television arrived at her house; she had become
part of the story.

Then, a few days later, a distant relative who had seen Ms. Aguilar on
television arrived at her home with a glimmer of hope. The relative had the New
York telephone number of a woman named Paquita who was supposedly the mother of
a friend of Giovanni, and Giovanni, the relative had heard, had made it out
safely.

AROUND this time, Ms. Aguilar had another piece of luck. Elba Berruz, the
general coordinator of Ecuadorean Residents Abroad, an advocacy group, helped
Ms. Aguilar obtain a visa to come to New York in time to attend the Oct. 28
memorial ceremony for the victims' families, to be held at ground zero.

With Ms. Berruz at her side, Ms. Aguilar took her first plane ride, aboard
American Airlines, where she drank a local sugar cane liquor called zhumir to
calm her nerves. Upon arriving in New York, the two went directly to Pier 94,
the emergency service center set up after the attack, to seek permission to
attend the ceremony. But Ms. Aguilar's children were not listed as missing, and
so she was told was not allowed to attend. (A spokesman for Pier 94 did not
respond to messages seeking comment.)

On Sunday, she reached Paquita.

"We asked the woman a thousand times about Giovanni, but she said: 'Wait, first
of all, it's Sunday, I have to go to Mass,' " Ms. Berruz recalled. Paquita's son
finally called abound 9 that night, but he was cautious about revealing too
much.

"I can't give you his telephone number or his address," he told Ms. Berruz. "How
do I know that she is his mother? Giovanni will call you."

Around 11 that night, Giovanni arrived at the Pan-American Hotel in Elmhurst,
where his mother was staying. They embraced and cried. Then came the news. "He
told me, 'We're all O.K.,' " Ms. Aguilar said. " 'We're all suffering, we're
bitter, but we're alive.' "

Mother and son trudged from apartment to apartment to see the other siblings. At
1 a.m., they arrived outside the tiny apartment in Elmhurst where Carlos lived
with his wife, Ruth, and a woman from Mexico. "What? My mother? Here?" Carlos
demanded when he learned his mother was downstairs. "How did she get a visa?"

Ms. Aguilar learned a few secrets during her visit. She discovered that her
children did not all live together, as they had always told her. She also
learned that Giovanni had separated from his wife and had been living with a
girlfriend for almost a year. Rosa had also separated from her husband. Both
couples had been overwhelmed by the stresses of a pinched, clandestine life in
crowded quarters but had not wanted to worry their mother.

There was another surprise. "I found her with this round thing here," said Ms.
Aguilar, pointing to Ruth's protruding belly.

Ruth, who is seven months pregnant, had not wanted anyone in Ecuador to know she
was expecting a third child. "With all the debts we have, they would have been
mad, they would have cursed me," she explained. Like so many of her countrymen,
Ruth still owes money to the coyotes who brought her to New York.

Why didn't any of the siblings call home? Giovanni provided one explanation in
an interview last week. "I didn't want to do anything," he said. "I simply
stayed at home. I didn't want to speak with anybody. I lost my car, I lost my
job, I was left with nothing. I was in very bad shape." Only recently did he
start working again, as a courier.

Such a lack of communication extends far beyond the Aguilar family. Although a
Red Cross spokeswoman said she knew of one only other similar case, involving a
woman who flew to New York with the fear -- unfounded -- that her mother had
died, calls are still coming to the Quito office of Ecuadorean Residents Abroad
as relatives realize that it has been too long since they have heard from loved
ones. The Ecuadorean Consulate has confirmed that 15 Ecuadoreans died in the
attack.

Few undocumented immigrants have come forward to seek counseling or financial
help, generally because they fear that their legal status will be discovered.

A week ago, Ms. Aguilar visited ground zero. "When I saw it," she said, "I
thought, 'Dear Lord, you have given me this great good fortune that nothing has
happened to my children.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Four of Mariana Aguilar's children were at or nearthe World
Trade Centeron Sept. 11. Her discovery that they were safe madethe front page of
El Diario. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRATION AGENCY;
Effort to Discover Terrorists Among Illegal Aliens Makes Glacial Progress,
Critics Say

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA and CHRISTOPHER DREW

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1523 words


In placing the Justice Department on a wartime footing, Attorney General John
Ashcroft has ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to lead the
charge in ferreting out potential terrorists among the nation's illegal
immigrants.

But on the ground, the order is being translated into reality at a glacial pace,
if that, critics say.

Even though at least three of the Sept. 11 hijackers were in the country
illegally, the immigration agency has not been culling its files of other people
here on expired visas, saying that the pool is too big to make it a useful tool
in finding terrorists.

Nor is the agency quickly able to track people coming in and out of the country,
since its antiquated system still records such information in paper files. About
200 people have been detained on immigration violations as part of the terrorism
investigation, but nearly all of them were identified by federal or local law
enforcement officers, not by immigration agents.

Indeed, the terror attacks have laid bare the country's longstanding ambiguity
on the question of what to do about illegal immigration. Before Sept. 11, the
Bush administration was engaged in serious negotiations to offer legal status to
some of those immigrants, particularly Mexicans, who were in the country
illegally.

Guest worker programs had been expanded, workplace raids had been suspended and
much of the focus was on the economic benefits of attracting foreign workers.

But since the terror attacks, the political pendulum has swung toward greater
caution, and the immigration service is trying to shift course.

In the hours after the World Trade Center towers fell, for instance, New York
City police officers and F.B.I. agents rushed to the Port Authority bus terminal
to check for possible accomplices on buses bound for Canada.

They stopped two Middle Eastern men, who admitted to overstaying their visas,
police officials said. But when immigration agents arrived at the scene, they
let the men go, just as as if nothing had changed that day.

Since then, law enforcement officials say, the immigration agency has been
working more closely with the F.B.I. and detaining the illegal immigrants that
are the bureau's target. But in recent interviews, immigration officials said
they did not want to be seen as singling out Middle Eastern men, and they did
not plan to search for undocumented immigrants on their own.

"No raids, no roundups, none of that," said Joseph Greene, the immigration
agency's assistant commissioner for investigations.

So it remains to be seen just what the service will do to carry out the new
initiatives set out by President Bush, who recently pledged that the government
would become "very diligent with our visas and observant with the behavior of
people who come to this country."

Critics on Capitol Hill are not optimistic, saying the service has been managed
too poorly for too long to be fixed without even more radical changes. But while
that debate goes on in Washington, the new reality is becoming clear in the
courthouses where deportation cases are heard.

That was evident in Newark recently when an immigration judge, William Strasser,
turned to a Pakistani man sitting before him in forest-green jail-house scrubs
and spelled out the new rules of engagement. Immigration violations, the judge
declared, would no longer be handled as they had been in the past.

"We live in different times than a year ago, you understand me?" Judge Strasser
said. "There weren't threats before, possible threats."

The Pakistani man, Azhar Iqbal, 36, had been smuggled into the country with a
forged visa and had been picked up in mid-October by the police and federal
agents with several other Pakistani men in an apartment in Ardsley, a
Westchester County town. He was quickly deemed to be of no use to the F.B.I.
terrorism investigation and was held in jail on immigration charges.

As it has done with all the detainees who have been picked up since Sept. 11,
the immigration agency objected to releasing Mr. Iqbal on bond.

In many cases, those objections have been overruled. But with Mr. Iqbal, Judge
Strasser asked him why he should be allowed to stay in the country.

As it turned out, Mr. Iqbal had no good reason other than his own desperation.
Barely able to communicate in English, he said something about floods having
ravaged his family's farm in Pakistan. He told the judge he had paid a smuggler
$16,000 to come into this country. "I stay for work, some money," he mumbled. "I
am very poor. Flood in Pakistan."

The judge ordered him to leave the country in 30 days, and for him to be
released from the custody of the immigration service in the meantime on an
$8,000 cash bond. Though the judge entered his order on Oct. 26, Mr. Iqbal has
not yet come up with the bond money.

Other detainees have also found that getting out of jail is not an easy feat.

Mahmood Abbasi, a limousine driver who had lived in this country illegally for
more than a decade, was detained on Oct. 8. But even after a judge authorized
his release on a $10,000 bond, and his family came up with the cash, it took
eight days and a complaint to the immigration judge to obtain his release, said
Mr. Abbasi's lawyer, Roland Gell.

The latest crackdown is being driven by Mr. Ashcroft and other top officials,
who say there is no easier way to prevent further terrorist attacks than
enforcing immigration laws.

Many of the arrests have come from traffic stops, old warrants for petty crimes
and tips about suspicious activities from neighbors. So far, the focus is on
people of Middle Eastern and South Asian descent, though more subtle
distinctions are being made.

Mr. Gell said another client, an Indian man nicknamed "the pilot," was
questioned by F.B.I. agents shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks. He, too, had
overstayed his visa. But when they learned he was a Hindu, and not a Muslim like
the hijackers, the F.B.I. released him.

Still, the difficulties in picking through the vast pool of illegal immigrants,
and deciding which ones might be connected to terrorists, are immense.

Last year, more than seven million foreigners arrived with tourist visas, while
the State Department issued more than 100,000 temporary work visas and 280,000
student visas. Of the estimated eight million illegal immigrants now thought to
be here, 40 percent are believed to have overstayed their visas.

In the past, illegal immigrants usually came to the agency's attention only if
they were caught in a smuggling ring or picked up in a workplace raid. "If you
laid low, life was fine," said Janet Sabel, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society.

But critics, including several powerful members of Congress, say that can no
longer be tolerated.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican who heads the
House Judiciary Committee, said the immigration service had been so poorly
managed that some 250,000 immigrants who had received deportation orders were
still in the country illegally.

"It's not just immigration enforcement," Mr. Sensenbrenner said in an interview.
"Talk to anyone who has tried to get a green card for themselves or their loved
ones. They will tell you that that part of the I.N.S. is just as incompetent."

Mr. Ashcroft said on Thursday that he planned to address these problems by
breaking the immigration agency into two services, separating border enforcement
from immigration processing. Mr. Sensenbrenner supports this general idea. But
he has also proposed legislation to create a new post high in the Justice
Department to take control of the immigration bureaus.

Mr. Sensenbrenner also said that Congress had more than tripled the immigration
service's spending authority since 1993, and he had little patience for the
notion that a lack of money had delayed its efforts to create a better immigrant
tracking system.

But some experts warned that even with half of the 1,900 immigration enforcement
agents assigned to work with the F.B.I., there were limits to what could be
done.

"We're at risk of developing an exaggerated view of what immigration law can do
in response to terrorism," said David Martin, a former immigration service
general counsel who is now a law professor at the University of Virginia.
"There's all this talk of monitoring either students or anyone who comes in on
temporary admission. Those may be very good in their own right.

"But it's not an efficient way to win the struggle against terrorism."

And even as the talk is tougher on illegal immigration, there is, in truth, no
rush to deport most of the illegal immigrants in the country.

In fact, the service recently encouraged illegal immigrants to report tips on
terrorists and anthrax scares without fear of being caught.

And last month, on his visit to New York City, the commissioner of immigration,
James W. Ziglar, urged illegal immigrants who had lost jobs or their family
breadwinners in the trade center attacks to seek government relief, also without
fear of retribution from the agency.

Mr. Ziglar said the service would not ask for the victims' immigration status.
"We would not use that information against them," he said. "Frankly, we don't
want that information."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft announcing new antiterror focus
at Immigration and Naturalization Service. (Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bus Company Is Accused Of Traffic in Illegal Aliens

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 10


In one of the government's largest actions ever against smugglers, the Justice
Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service today announced the
indictment of 32 officers and employees of a bus company that they said moved
thousands of illegal aliens from the Mexican border to cities in the Western
United States.

The 39-count indictment was made public in Tucson, where much of the illegal
operation was said to be focused, and people were arrested in several Western
states.

But the actions were announced by Attorney General John Ashcroft in Washington,
underscoring the government's efforts to demonstrate that it was cracking down
on illegal immigration.

"The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 remind Americans in the most painful way of
the need to defend our borders while keeping them open to peaceful,
freedom-loving people," Mr. Ashcroft said. "Today's charges prove that we can
achieve this balance in our immigration policy."

The government said the company, Golden State Transportation of Los Angeles,
moved 50 to 300 illegal aliens a day, seven days a week, from areas near the
border with Mexico. The company worked with smugglers to move the aliens first
to a hotel in Tucson and then carried them on buses to cities like Los Angeles,
Denver, Las Vegas and Yakima, Wash., the government said.

"This is just the first phase of the investigation," said Johnny Williams, the
western regional director of the immigration service.

There was no answer at Golden State's headquarters or at the home of its
chairman and one of its principal owners, Francisco Gonzalez.

Its service was disrupted for most of the morning. At its corporate offices
here, behind a steel gate about 3 miles northwest of downtown, the doors were
locked, but through the windows people who appeared to be plainclothes law
enforcement officers could be seen working inside.

The indictment followed a two-year operation involving local and federal law
enforcement officials in seven Southwestern states. The operation was a result
of stepped-up enforcement strategy, officials said, in which officers are
focusing not just on the border itself but on the means smugglers use to get
their human cargo from Mexico into the interior of the United States.

How much today's actions will affect illegal entries was unclear. Immigration
officials said their apprehensions of people crossing the border illegally near
Tucson were already down by 65 percent from last year because of other efforts.

Officials in Tucson today described what they said was an elaborate
transportation nexis in which Golden State Transportation coordinated its
pickups with smuggling operations and transported large groups of illegal aliens
late at night, often taking evasive routes to avoid border patrol officers.

Golden State is 51 percent owned by Sistema Internacional de Transporte de
Autobuses Inc., a subsidiary of Greyhound Lines Inc. An official of Greyhound
said the company knew nothing of today's actions.

"Today's announcement came as a surprise to Greyhound," said Lynn Brown,
spokeswoman for the company. "At this point the Justice Department has not
contacted us but we will cooperate fully with the Justice Department on this
matter." The rest of Golden State is owned by the family of Mr. Gonzalez, with
family members operating the company's offices in Los Angeles, Las Vegas and
Tucson, the indictment said.

The indictment acknowledges that Golden State has a substantial legitimate
business, and schedules posted at its downtown terminal here list routes going
south to Tijuana and east to cities like Las Vegas.

While the government said Golden State was motivated by the profits to be made
from moving illegal immigrants, the only figures it gave on those profits seemed
modest. The indictment said Golden State charged each person $80 for the trip
from Tucson to Los Angeles. The normal Greyhound bus fare for that trip is $36.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 21, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meatpackers' Profits Hinge On Pool of Immigrant Labor

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1051 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 20


The indictment of Tyson Foods Inc., the nation's largest meat processor, on
charges that it conspired to smuggle illegal immigrants to work at its plants,
is a sign of how dependent theAmerican food and agriculture system has become on
foreign-born workers, many of them here illegally.

Because of this heavy reliance, agriculture experts say, a major effort to crack
down on the hiring of illegal workers could disrupt the nation's food industry.

"This would really cripple the system," said William Heffernan, professor of
rural sociology at the University of Missouri who has studied immigrant labor.
"In the communities where these plants are located there isn't an alternative
work force. They'd have to raise wages and improve the conditions."

Until 15 or 20 years ago, meatpacking plants in the United States were staffed
by highly paid, unionized employees who earned about $18 an hour, adjusted for
inflation. Today, the processing and packing plants are largely staffed by
low-paid non-union workers from places like Mexico and Guatemala. Many of them
start at $6 an hour.

The shift in the economics of the food and agriculture industry has made such
jobs unappealing to Americans, but highly enticing to immigrants.

Companies like Tyson, Smithfield Foods and Conagra have profited from paying low
wages, pushing production lines faster and hiring workers who are much more
willing to endure the hazardous conditions of a meat-processing plant, industry
experts say.

"This is certainly not unique to Tyson," Professor Heffernan said. "This has
been around for a long time in the meat-processing industry. And employers can
take advantage of these people because they can threaten to send them back."

The companies can also benefit from high turnover, which means workers often do
not qualify for insurance or vacation time.

But high turnover means the companies face constant pressure to find new
workers. That pressure may have been at the heart of the actions Tyson is
accused of in the indictment, which was unsealed on Wednesday in Federal
District Court in Chattanooga, Tenn.

The government charged the company and six of its employees with conspiring to
transport illegal immigrants across the Mexican border and help them get
counterfeit work papers for jobs at more than a dozen Tyson poultry plants. The
indictment said that, to meet production and profit goals, Tyson officials would
contact local smugglers near its plants to get more workers.

Industry experts said it has long been believed that American food companies
recruit in Mexico and knowingly hire illegal workers. Some said the companies
advertise on the radio in Mexico, distribute leaflets, show videos and hire
immigrant smugglers, or "coyotes."

Eric Schlosser, the author of "Fast Food Nation," which chronicled changes in
the food industry, said that the recruiting and hiring of illegal workers had
been widespread for some time, and that big companies had used it to their
benefit.

"For me, I don't care if those workers are from Mars," Mr. Schlosser said in a
telephone interview. "It's the way in which using illegals allows them to do all
the other practices, like speeding up the production lines, not listening to
workers and having a high turnover rate which reduces the power of the workers."

Professor Heffernan, at the University of Missouri, said it was simple: "It's
the race to the bottom; it's just the race to the bottom. Companies started
breaking the unions, moving the plants to rural areas and hiring immigrants a
long time ago."

The same foreign-born workers harvest fruits and vegetables in Florida and
California, they milk cows on giant dairy farms in Wisconsin and Oregon and
process and pack potatoes in Idaho.

"Immigrant labor, whether it's legal or illegal, is critical," said Keith
Esplin, president of the Potato Growers of Idaho. "Most Mexicans here will have
papers, but the farmers won't have any idea. There is real good counterfeit
stuff out there."

Of course, because of the widespread use of counterfeit documents, no one knows
for sure how many of them are working illegally. But industry and government
officials say that, for better or worse, foreign-born workers are now one of the
most vital elements in the American food and agriculture system.

About one million farm laborers are on the job at any one time, according to the
United States Department of Agriculture. And a government study estimated that
nearly 40 percent are illegal. A few years ago, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service estimated that about 25 percent of meatpacking workers in
the Midwest were probably illegal.

"We have enormous segments of agriculture that are critically dependent on hired
farm labor," said Keith Collins, the chief economist at the Agriculture
Department. "They are needed, particularly for harvesting perishables, like
fruits and vegetables in Florida and California."

Asked whether many of the foreign-born migrant laborers were illegal, Mr.
Collins said, Absolutely.

"It's in the hundreds of thousands," he said. "No doubt."

The government, though, has had little success in stemming the flow of illegal
immigrants to food and agriculture companies. Federal raids on meatpacking
plants sent many illegal workers back to their countries. But it outraged food
companies, who complained of disruptions. Civil rights officials accused the
government of harassing Mexicans and others from Central America. And Midwestern
politicians sometimes complained that slowing down the work at meatpacking
plants increased the supply of livestock and thereby harmed hog and cattle
farmers, who had already been suffering from low prices for their goods.

The big meatpacking companies said today that they would work to ensure that
they were not hiring illegal workers. But they have long maintained that it is a
difficult thing to achieve. There is a complicated network of smugglers and a
huge trade in the trafficking of fraudulent work documents.

Janet Riley of the American Meat Institute, which represents the big meat
processors, said it would be hard to root out illegal immigrants because it was
difficult to know how many were working at plants. The institute does not even
have estimates on foreign-born workers.

"We don't know the number," Ms. Riley said. "But we do know it's significant."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED;
For Some, Lives in the Shadows Ended in Attack, Indiscernibly

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words


Some illegal immigrants drown in boats on their way to America. Others die in
the desert. Still others disappear in a different way -- swallowed by the thrill
of America, never again to call their families back home. Very little of all
this is ever officially recorded.

When the twin towers fell on Sept. 11, it was clear, or at least likely, that
some illegal immigrants had perished along with the executives and the
firefighters and the police officers. But more than 100 days after the terror
attacks, this handful of lost workers does not appear on any formal lists of the
dead or missing. It's hard, after all, to work with half-names and no paperwork.

None of these people, then, are likely to be positively identified or
ceremoniously mourned. No short obituaries of them will be published. But some
of their names are known, some snippets of their lives can be gathered.

There is, for instance, Humberto. Not much is known about Humberto -- whether
that was his real name, whether he worked off the books or if he had bought a
second identity. Whether he had a wife or children is also not clear. Like many
of the 10 million illegal immigrants in the United States, he existed as a kind
of shadow.

Only two things are known about Humberto for certain: he spoke Spanish, and he
was delivering some breakfast sandwiches when the plane struck 1 World Trade
Center at 8:48 a.m.

His name was called in by a manager from Akbar's sandwich shop in the north
tower, a Mexican woman who works under a false name. She wanted to do the
Christian thing, she said, so she contacted a volunteer who collects information
on the illegal people who disappeared in the World Trade Center calamity.
Humberto had told the manager that he had a wife and two children back in
Mexico.

Humberto was likely vaporized, and with him any chance of learning his full
name. Some family somewhere will probably never know the circumstances of his
death.

As it now stands, what passes for an epitaph on a relief group's bulletin board
reads:

Humberto

Born ? - Died September 11, 2001

There are a dozen other people who have been reported missing but do not exist
on any official list. Either they were not reported by their employers, or no
one knew where they worked exactly, or no relative made a full filing with the
proper authorities.

Take the case of Jose Morales. A friend in New York says he worked at the trade
center. Mr. Morales's girlfriend, who is the mother of his four children, said
that he told her he worked in a pizzeria. They were not officially married and
only relatives are permitted to open a trade center missing person's case with
the Mexican consulate.

"It is possible that he just walked away," said Carmina Makar, an outreach
worker at Asociacion Tepeyac, an organization that compiled a list of the
missing Mexicans. "But he stopped calling home on Sept. 11. Doesn't that seem
strange?"

Brother Joel Magallan Reyes is the director of Asociacion Tepeyac, which
operates out of a small building on 14th Street and Eighth Avenue in Manhattan.
He said no one inquired about Humberto. He also said that among the missing was
a man who went by the name of Samuel Herrera. He was a Mexican. Juventino
Hernandez Perez was also a Mexican. Ana Irene Medina Glez had four names and was
said to be 42 years old. The list goes on.

"Nobody knows who they really were," Brother Reyes said. "I'm sure they were
good people. I hope they will also erect a monument to the missing ones."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 16, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BULLETIN BOARD;
Tuition Rises for Many Immigrants

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 158 words


With the City University's higher tuition for illegal immigrants taking effect
this month, some public officials and public interest groups have lined up to
fight it. Assemblyman PETER M. RIVERA of the Bronx has introduced a bill that
would allow all immigrants who graduate from a New York high school, or earn an
equivalent degree in the state, to pay in-state tuition, now $1,600 a semester
at a four-year CUNY college.

(Students without legal immigration status -- there were more than 2,000 last
year -- will now have to pay the out-of-state tuition of $3,400.) The Puerto
Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund and other opponents have sued to stop the
increase. And a group of students and faculty members started a three-day hunger
strike yesterday in protest. MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN, CUNY's chancellor, said that he
supported Mr. Rivera's legislation, noting that CUNY adopted the higher tuition
to conform to federal law.   Karen W. Arenson

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 18, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Illegal Immigrants to Get A Tuition Break in California

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 17


Illegal immigrants will be permitted to pay the lower tuition that the
University of California charges state residents under a plan approved by its
Board of Regents today.

The board voted 17 to 5 to allow the lower tuition if the illegal immigrants
graduated from a California high school after at least three years of attendance
and apply to become legal immigrants.

Undocumented immigrants must currently pay the higher out-of-state tuition even
if they have lived in the state for years.

"Talk what you will about their status, the reality is industries could not
survive without the backbreaking work these people and their parents do," said
Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, a member of the board.

Other regents said the move was a mistake.

"We've got to take care of Americans first," David S. Lee said. "Now we're
telling the whole world just come in illegally and we will give you a good
education."

The change effectively cuts annual tuition for illegal immigrants by $11,000,
from nearly $15,000 to about $4,000.

Gov. Gray Davis and the Legislature approved a bill last year making the same
policy change at California state university campuses and community colleges.

Before the vote, America Yareli Hernandez, an 18-year-old student at Fresno
State, told the regents she wanted to transfer to a University of California
campus but could not afford the tuition. She said her parents moved to
California from Mexico when she was 3 months old.

"I feel I should have equal opportunity because I have been here all my life,"
Ms. Hernandez said outside the meeting. "It's not my fault. I didn't make a
conscious effort to arrive illegally."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students rallied on Wednesday for a plan to allow California
high school graduates to pay in-state tuition regardless of their immigration
status. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 22, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Protesting Treatment Of Immigrants

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 176 words


More than 100 people gathered in Union Square Park yesterday to protest the
government's treatment of immigrants since the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and
Washington. They chanted, "I.N.S., F.B.I., no more kidnaps, no more lies," and
waved signs that read, "Stop racist attacks on immigrants" and "Close the I.N.S.
jails, open up the borders." Hundreds of immigrants were detained largely on
immigration violations in the months after the attacks on the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon. Diplomats have said they have been provided insufficient
information about those behind bars. There were 460 such detainees last month.
The State Department has said the government is living up to its obligations to
advise detained foreigners of their right to contact their embassy or consulate.
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials have said that detainees cannot
be released until the F.B.I. completely investigates the leads that brought them
to the attention of authorities. The I.N.S. did not immediately return telephone
calls seeking comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Census Bureau Estimates 115,000 Middle Eastern Immigrants Are in the U.S.
Illegally

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 549 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22


At least 58,000 men from Middle Eastern nations are in the United States
illegally, nearly 10 times the number that the United States is seeking to
deport, census data show.

In its first estimates by nationality of the underground population, the Census
Bureau reported that 114,818 Middle Eastern men and women are in the country
illegally. That represents a little more than 1 percent of the total number of
illegal immigrants who are counted as living in the United States.

The estimates do not include the number of illegal immigrants from Pakistan and
from the Arab nations of northern Africa. Immigration officials said there were
40,000 illegal immigrants from Pakistan.

Whatever the grand total, it far outstrips the 6,000 Middle Eastern men recently
sought by the Justice Department for ignoring deportation orders.

Responding to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the authorities said this month
that federal, state and local officials would work with immigration officers to
find and deport such immigrants.

At least three of the hijackers on Sept. 11 were in the United States illegally,
the authorities say.

The new information, based on the 2000 census, has led to criticism that the
government strategy is too narrow.

"It is difficult to overstate the implications of this new report for the
security of our nation," said Steven A. Camarota, research director for the
Center for Immigration Studies, a group in Washington that has pushed for
lowering the number of immigrants who enter the country.  "While the vast
majority of illegals from the Middle East are not terrorists, the fact that tens
of thousands of people from that region and millions more from the rest of the
world can settle in the United States illegally means that terrorists who wish
to do so face few obstacles."

But advocates for Arab and Muslim Americans argue that the government approach
is too expansive and unfairly singles out certain citizens and residents for
legal scrutiny because of their ethnicity.

A spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, Ibrahim Hooper, said
the government needed to enforce its immigration rules across the board, and not
just as they related to Muslims.

"The point is you can't single out a specific race and ethnicity for selective
law enforcement," Mr. Hooper said. "It's not within the American value system."

The number of illegal immigrants from the Middle East is a fraction of the
overall underground population, which has exploded in the last 10 years.

Census officials estimate that 8.7 million illegal immigrants were in the
country in 2000, more than twice as many the 3.8 million reported in 1990. More
than half the illegal immigrants come from North and Central America, with
Mexico providing 44 percent, the government says.

About 1.3 million illegal immigrants are from Asia, 1.1 million from Europe and
624,419 from South America, the census figures show.

From 1990 to 2000, the illegal population became younger, with 40 percent from
18 years old to 29 years old; increasingly male, at 54.2 percent; and
predominantly Hispanic, at 61.5 percent.

Because the underground population is difficult to count, census officials used
an estimating technique that took the foreign-born population and removed legal
immigrants, assumed deaths and emigrants.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 27, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refugee Issue Clouds Visit By Australian To the U.S.

BYLINE:  By JOHN SHAW

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia, Jan. 26


Prime Minister John Howard has an embarrassing problem at home over Australia's
treatment of illegal immigrants, one he hopes to avoid when he visits the United
States next weekend.

Officials preparing Mr. Howard's schedule say he plans to concentrate on trade
and investment while talking up his country's buoyant economy to business
executives and government officials at the World Economic Forum in New York.

Complicating that plan, however, are the hunger strikes at a detention center in
the Australian desert now in their 11th day. Detainees held a noisy rally there
today, and one man was seriously injured after climbing over a razor-wire fence.

Militants among the asylum seekers and their supporters have warned that there
could be deaths after days of hunger strikes, self-mutilations and attempted
suicides at the camp, called Woomera.

The barracks house about 800 illegal immigrants, many from the Middle East and
Afghanistan.

Australia, a nation of 19.3 million people, has been criticized by other
countries and international aid groups for its treatment of the immigrants. By
way of response, Mr. Howard's government points out that Australia has absorbed
five million settlers over the last 50 years and that each year it accepts
80,000 new citizens, including about 10,000 authorized refugees.

The opposition Labor Party advocates releasing about 600 children and their
mothers from five camps to welfare centers until their family cases are decided.
The government has rejected that proposal.

A growing coalition of church groups, ethnic organizations and civil liberties
lawyers, encouraged by news media and United Nations agency support, has
advocated replacing the policy of detention with one that uses temporary visas
until refugee claims are assessed.

For the past two weeks, scores of the 200 Afghan detainees at Woomera have been
mutilating themselves and publicizing it through the news media. Their aim is to
reduce long delays, sometimes as long as two years, in settling their claims for
refuge and release.

So far there have been no fatalities although, in addition to the man injured
today, one man suffered fractures in jumping from a roof.

Woomera is the largest of a network of Australian centers holding about 2,700
illegal arrivals, most of whom were brought here in the past two years by
smugglers based in Indonesia.

Mr. Howard, 62, a conservative re-elected in November for a third term with a
bipartisan mandate to deter illegal immigrants, is unmoved by the protesters. He
has called their tactics of sewing their lips shut, drinking disinfectant,
hunger strikes and threatened hangings a form of blackmail. "We are not going to
change detention policy," he said.

His officials also now contend that the Afghans' earlier claim of fleeing
persecution by the Taliban no longer applies since that government has been
defeated.

The concerns expressed by the public over the treatment of the detainees, still
a minority view, according to surveys, has been bolstered by the resignation of
the government's principal independent immigration adviser, Neville Roach.

Mr. Roach, a senior electronics executive of Sri Lankan origin who arrived here
40 years ago, said that, "Compassion has been thrown out the door."'

"The asylum seeker controversy is doing serious damage to Australia's
multicultural fabric," he said.

The New York-based prize-winning Australian writer Peter Carey, visiting his
homeland, founded in 1788 as a British prison colony, said: "A real Australian
is by my definition an immigrant. Our ancestors had no idea where they were, and
it seems to me that they have much in common with the frightened people in
Woomera."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 30, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suicide Threat By 9 Refugees Held in Camp By Australia

BYLINE:  By BECKY GAYLORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Wednesday, Jan. 30


Nine teenage Afghans seeking asylum are threatening to kill themselves unless
they are freed from a camp where hundreds of illegal immigrants have been on a
hunger strike for two weeks to protest their detention.

The threats have prompted a government delegation to make its third visit in
about a week to the isolated camp, on the desert plains of South Australia, to
discuss the immigrants' demands.

The immigrants are protesting the conditions at the camp, called Woomera, and
the government's policy of detaining all illegal immigrants while their
applications for asylum wind through the bureaucracy, which can take years. In
the past week, detainees at other centers across Australia have joined the
protests.

Some have sewn their mouths shut and refused to eat. Others have harmed
themselves by swallowing chemicals or cutting their wrists and stomachs. Several
have tried to hang themselves, the government has confirmed.

The nine boys who threatened suicide said they would wait 24 hours while
government negotiators met with them and the other protesters. Most are from the
Middle East and Asia.

"They're terribly adamant about it," said Robert McDonald, a lawyer for the
teenagers. "I'm sure they will follow through."

Hassan Varasi, an Afghan asylum seeker who is acting as spokesman for hundreds
of detainees from inside the camp, said most hunger strikers had cut the threads
from their mouths to show a willingness to negotiate.

"There is a sign of hope," he said.

The talks started Tuesday night and are to continue today.

But the gulf between what the immigrants want and what the government is willing
to give remains wide. The immigrants say they want to live in the community, not
in a camp ringed with barbed wire, while their applications are processed. But
"moving is not our only demand," Mr. Varasi said.

The government is not budging on its 10-year-old policy of mandatory detention,
taking a tough line against a rising tide of migrants shipped here by smugglers
who have made Australia an increasingly popular destination.

The government delegates who have visited the camps said they would recommend
closing Woomera in the long term.

But lawyers for the asylum seekers, who have been barred from the discussions,
contend that the delegates, formally an advisory group on the detention of
immigrants, serves a limited role.

"They're a papier-mache body," Mr. McDonald said. "They don't have any power to
do anything."

Paris Aristotle, a member of the advisory group, conceded that releasing
detainees "is not something that we have the capacity to authorize." The group's
purpose is diplomatic, he said.

Even moving the asylum seekers from Woomera to another center seems unlikely in
the short term. There is no space available at other camps, an immigration
agency spokesman said.

Though the government faces mounting criticism from groups like Amnesty
International, Prime Minister John Howard and other politicians have said there
is no alternative.

"Tough as our policy is," Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said in a recent
radio interview, "if we were to abandon that policy, as some suggest, then we'd
live with the consequences of having a completely disorderly immigration
program."

Making reference to the policy's broad support among Australians, he said, "I'll
be more concerned when Australians disagree than when some foreigners do."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An asylum seeker yesterday at Port Hedland Detention Center in
northwest Australia. Dozens of refugees in scattered camps have stitched their
lips during a two-week-old hunger strike to protest camp conditions. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Suffocate in Rail Car

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 68 words

DATELINE: WILLCOX, Ariz., Jan. 30


Five Mexicans who had apparently stowed away in a railroad coal car were found
dead today when the coal was dumped onto a conveyor belt at an Arizona power
plant.

Investigators have not determined whether the men were illegal immigrants, a
sheriff's department spokeswoman, Carol Capas, said.

The men are believed to have suffocated in the coal, said Miguel Escobar Valdez,
the Mexican consul in Douglas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Matters;
Tuition, Out of State And Beyond

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words


JUST about everyone involved says it was a shame for Washington to do it in the
first place, and for New York not to have undone it by now. In the meantime,
Daniel from Mexico and Teresa from Colombia and a few thousand other striving
immigrants are confronting a formidable new hurdle in their pursuit of a college
education. And immigrant-friendly New York looks punitive at best.

What happened?

Illegal immigrants at the City University of New York were notified just three
months ago that starting this semester, they would have to pay higher tuition --
the rates charged to out-of-state students. Their costs at the four-year
colleges shot up to $3,400 a semester from $1,600. Tuition at the community
colleges went to $1,538 a semester from $1,250.

CUNY administrators say that when they were reviewing their policies after Sept.
11, they discovered that since 1998, CUNY had been violating a federal
immigration law that prevents students who are illegal immigrants from getting
benefits unavailable to citizens from out of state.

California and Texas passed legislation that circumvents the federal statute. In
New York, the state university has been following the federal policy since 1998,
and CUNY, which estimates that about 3,000 of its 200,000 students have
acknowledged their illegal status on their applications, punted.

It had to, said the current general counsel, Frederick P. Schaffer. "People
speculate this is part of an anti-immigrant policy, but it's just law," he said.
"I concluded that not only as a lawyer but as a lawyer for a public institution,
I had an obligation to obey the law."

He and CUNY's chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, say they deplore having to raise
fees and urge Albany to enact legislation that would get around the federal law.
But critics have complained that they did not delay the effective date of the
increases, did not deliberate in public, did not aggressively draw attention to
the plight of their students, did not beg for action.

"They acted hastily and unilaterally," said Barbara Bowen, president of the
Professional Staff Congress, which represents CUNY's faculty. Ms. Bowen cited
CUNY's traditional mission of educating immigrants, many of them poor, and said
that university administrators should have consulted with a broad range of
experts, faculty members and students before increasing tuition.

Dr. Goldstein, emphasizing that CUNY is trying to help the illegal immigrants in
a number of ways, said: "The action I took had to be taken. If my general
counsel alerted me that we are out of compliance with federal law, I have to get
into compliance, which we did rather decisively."

That they did. Daniel, a Hunter College student who emigrated from Mexico with
his family when he was 15, remembers being stunned by a letter advising him of
the tuition increases just before Thanksgiving.

"I think because of Sept. 11, they want to keep track of everybody, because one
of the terrorists had a student visa," said Daniel, 22. "That's all right with
me. But not everybody is as bad." Daniel, once a full-time student, is now
taking one $900 course in computer technology.

ANOTHER Hunter student, Teresa, fears she will have to drop out. Teresa, a
20-year-old honors student, came from Colombia with her family when she was 14.
She and Daniel have little chance of becoming citizens unless they marry
Americans or have relatives who are citizens. Teresa is hoping that the courts
or the State Legislature will reverse the tuition increases.

The federal law prevents illegal immigrants from getting preferential treatment
(lower tuition) that citizens in other states cannot. California and Texas got
around that by making high school graduation the key criterion for the lower
tuition, along with school attendance or residency in those states.

Bills with similar provisions have been introduced in Albany by Assemblymen
Adriano Espaillat of Manhattan and Peter M. Rivera of the Bronx, both Democrats.
But the bills have drawn little attention and have no sponsor in the State
Senate. Gov. George E. Pataki is still studying the matter, his advisers say,
and the legislative leaders -- Sheldon Silver in the Assembly, a Democrat, and
Joseph L. Bruno in the Senate, a Republican -- have not yet taken positions.

This is New York, city of immigrants. The power players will surely awaken to
this soon. Then again, the Legislature and governor are seeking re-election this
year. There are other priorities. And illegal immigrants do not vote.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Tuition Policy At Cuny

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 103 words


The City University of New York said yesterday that its new policy of charging
illegal immigrants its higher, nonresident tuition did not appear to have
discouraged them from enrolling.

Nonresident tuition is $3,400 a semester, or more than double the $1,600 for
state residents. About 20 percent of the illegal immigrants at the senior
colleges in the fall did not re-enroll for the spring semester, compared with 19
percent for all students. The policy took effect this semester. CUNY officials
said they were complying with federal law, and the policy was recently upheld by
a state court.   Karen W. Arenson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 26, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Sentence In Illegal Immigrants' Deaths

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 79 words


A Mexican has been sentenced to 16 years in prison for smuggling a group of
illegal immigrants across the border last May, then abandoning them in the
scorching Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, leading to 14 deaths. The
smuggler, Jesus Lopez-Ramos, 21, was sentenced on Friday in Federal District
Court in Phoenix. Paul Charlton, the United States attorney, said the
authorities were investigating at least 10 other suspects in the case on both
sides of the border.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

North of the Border

BYLINE:  By Tim Golden;  Tim Golden, an investigative reporter for The Times,
has written extensively about Mexican immigration.

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1042 words


CROSSING OVER
A Mexican Family on the Migrant Trail.
By Ruben Martinez.
Illustrated. 328 pp. New York:
Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $26.

On the front lines, Ruben Martinez observes early in "Crossing Over," the
struggle between illegal immigrants and American border patrol agents has come
to resemble a low-intensity conflict: the fighting is irregular and largely
unseen; the casualties are steady but come in numbers small enough to leave the
public imagination mostly unstirred.

Since the Clinton administration began tightening border controls in the
mid-1990's, in part to neutralize a political issue that had been used
effectively by Republicans, the body count has been rising all along the
southern border of the United States. The border patrol made it tougher for
illegal immigrants to sneak across into cities like San Diego and El Paso, so
the immigrants began taking longer, more arduous routes through the desert.
Predictably, many more have perished along the way.

Among the untold victims of the conflict were Benjamin, Salvador and Jaime
Chavez, brothers who had left their home in Mexico to find work in the
strawberry fields of Watsonville, Calif. Like many people from Cheran, their
hardscrabble town in the central state of Michoacan, the brothers had made the
journey before. But just before dawn on April 6, 1996, the small truck in which
they were traveling flipped over as it sped away from border patrol agents near
Temecula, Calif., about an hour's drive north of the border. Eight of the 27
illegals packed into the truck were killed, and the Chavez family was
devastated.

Martinez, an associate editor at Pacific News Service and the grandson of
Mexican immigrants, was not the only journalist to visit Cheran in the aftermath
of the accident, but he was surely the only one who kept going back. The basic
question he asks -- why do they continue to come when the risks are so obviously
great? -- is not new. Nor are the answers he hears particularly original. What
is often extraordinary, though, is the force with which those answers come
across.

In a series of visits over two years, Martinez visits with the Chavezes, goes to
church with them and gets drunk with them. He listens sympathetically as they
struggle with the losses of the three brothers and the income they sent home. At
any moment, most of their town's able-bodied men and many of its women are
scattered across the American low-wage landscape, from the farms of California's
Central Valley to the slaughterhouses of the rural South. But if "the other
side" has always been on Cheran's horizon, the choices that the Chavez family
faces are set in stark new relief by the tragedy.

Rosa, the 21-year-old sister, believes she should stay home with her grieving
mother but longs to return to St. Louis and its freedom from village notions of
Mexican womanhood. Her husband, Wense, knows that the family needs him in
Cheran, but also that it needs the money he can earn working on a Missouri farm.
Another Chavez son, Florentino, stays in Watsonville to keep the family afloat,
but he finishes off his long days in the fields by drinking himself to sleep in
a run-down trailer.

In Cheran, the Chavez family live in a Mexico That Nafta Forgot. Eight years
after the trade agreement took effect, its promise of new jobs and higher wages
is almost invisible. For men in town, the job opportunities don't go much beyond
tapping resin from the pine forests, working in a sawmill or building tables
from wooden scraps. The money that migrants send home supports a restaurant, a
bar and a few cantinas, but new business amounts to little more than a store or
two that stock auto parts and baseball caps that say "Raiders" to capitalize on
the migrant fashion.

What lures Mexicans north, Martinez observes, are values and ideas as well as
the economics. Poor young couples choose between putting their children to work
after the sixth grade or putting them into American public schools. Women weigh
their traditional roles in the home against a life in which they can get jobs,
drive cars and perhaps persuade their husbands to help with the housework. One
family, the Tapias, has found a familiar vision of home in Warren, Ark.: "a
verdant, peaceful place, with the pastoral rhythms that are slowly being eroded
away in Cheran."

At its best, Martinez's portrait is a rich counterpoint to the simple patterns a
demographer might draw. The Cheranes, as people from the town are called, come
and go and live in both countries at once. One of Cheran's traditional
curanderas, or healers, has set up shop in Cobden, Ill., population 1,090. The
local slackers join in a hybrid pop culture that is at once Mexican and
American, Indian, country and hip-hop. The hard-working Enriquez family thrives
in central Wisconsin, but its sons yearn for the freedoms of life back in
Cheran: the freedom to crank up the volume on their music or to drink a beer on
the sidewalk in front of one's home.

The book has some flaws. When Martinez gets away from the Chavezes and Cheran,
his anecdotes tend to take on a kitchen-sink feel, as in long passages about the
workings of an Arkansas slaughterhouse or the vagaries of Mexican street kids on
the border. He has a fine ear for language, but the poor Mexicans he meets
sometimes speak in strangely lyrical sentences. At times, Martinez's great
sympathy for the immigrants is undercut by his cartoonish rendering of the
people they encounter in the United States -- the cruel white bosses, the racist
white neighbors, the shock troops of the Border Patrol.

The politics of American immigration policy are also a lot more complex than
Martinez allows. With the Republicans trying to court Latino voters and
President Bush eager to strengthen relations with Mexico, Washington embarked
last summer on what might have been the most significant rethinking of
immigration policy in years. While that process slammed to a halt on Sept. 11,
Americans should think carefully about whether the sort of changes that were
being considered for Mexican immigrants are really impossible in a context of
tightened borders. As Martinez makes clear, America's attraction for such
newcomers will always be stronger than its ability to keep them out.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 17, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

March 10-16: NATIONAL;
IMMIGRANT BILL

BYLINE:  By Robert Pear

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 111 words


The House of Representatives voted to let tens of thousands of illegal
immigrants apply for permanent residence in the U.S. without returning to their
homelands.

The action would help people who qualify for immigrant visas, or green cards, on
the basis of family relationships or job skills; the single largest such group
may be Mexicans. Supporters of the legislation, passed by a vote of 275 to 137,
described it as a gesture of goodwill toward Mexico, where President Bush
travels this week to meet President Vicente Fox. The measure's outlook in the
Senate is unclear; packaged with legislation to tighten border security and
combat visa fraud.   Robert Pear

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Leader Hopes His Talks With Bush Will Unblock Aid

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 18


Days before a scheduled summit meeting with President Bush, President Vicente
Fox of Mexico said today that he hoped to end a months-long stalemate and make
concrete advances in negotiations on immigration and American economic support
for the poorest regions of his country.

"We are ready and we hope to solidify some advances," Mr. Fox said in a late
afternoon interview.

"Our final objective remains the same as we had defined at the beginning of the
talks," he said, "but we understand that the matters of security and terrorism
affected the speed of our progress."

The summit meeting is set for Friday in Monterrey, where both presidents will
attend the United Nations Conference on Development.

Since he was elected more than 18 months ago, President Fox has pressed the
United States to adopt agreements that among other things would: increase the
number of guest workers hired in the agricultural and service industries;
increase American economic support for development in Mexico's poorest regions
-- particularly those that expel the largest number of illegal immigrants to the
United States in search of work; and give legal status to some three million
undocumented Mexicans living in the United States.

The negotiations were delayed by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. And many
political observers predicted that American concerns about terrorism would
plunder Mr. Fox's campaign by dousing support in Washington for opening the
border to a freer flow of Mexican workers.

Responding to the crisis, Mexico added binational security measures to the
negotiations. And, following a visit to Mexico by the United States homeland
security director, Tom Ridge, Mexico and the United States are expected to reach
agreements on measures aimed at making the border more secure without
interrupting trade.

Six months after the attacks, there are signs that support for Mr. Fox's
initiatives is regaining ground in the United States. Congressional leaders
including Representative Richard A. Gephardt and Senator Tom Daschle recently
wrote President Bush to urge that he move forward on an immigrant legalization
plan.

And the House of Representatives passed a measure to extend a program that
allows undocumented immigrants to stay in the United States while they apply for
permanent residency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DETAINEES;
Civil Rights Group to Sue Over U.S. Handling of Muslim Men

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 892 words


In a new challenge to the Bush administration's prolonged detention of hundreds
of Muslim men after Sept. 11, a civil rights group says it will ask a federal
court to declare the government's treatment of the men biased and
unconstitutional.

A class-action lawsuit prepared by the group, the Center for Constitutional
Rights, accused the government of arbitrarily holding Muslim detainees in prison
for months on minor immigration violations, with no hearings to determine
whether the government had probable cause to hold them.

They have also been subjected to excessively harsh treatment in jails in New
Jersey and Brooklyn, the complaint said, and in some cases could not practice
their religion, contact their families or seek the help of their consular
officials.

The lawsuit will be filed today in United States District Court in Brooklyn,
said Barbara J. Olshansky, a lawyer for the center.

"We want the world to know that we are treating students, tourists, people here
for short period of time, as criminals," Ms. Olshansky said. "We're putting them
into arbitrary detention, just like the worst totalitarian regimes we cry out
all the time about in this country."

About 1,200 Muslim men were arrested in the first weeks after the terror
attacks, most eventually charged with minor immigration violations such as
overstaying a visa.

As of mid-February, according to the only information provided by the Justice
Department, 327 of the original detainees were still in custody on immigration
charges.

Government officials have declined to identify the detainees or the reasons so
many remain in prison, other than to say that all law enforcement agencies must
first clear them of links to terrorism.

The suit names as defendants Attorney General John Ashcroft; Robert S. Mueller
III, the director of the F.B.I.; James W. Ziglar, the commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Dennis Hasty, the warden of the
Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn; and unnamed corrections officers at
the detention center who are accused of beating and abusing some detainees.

A Justice Department spokesman said the agency would not comment on the
complaint.

Efforts by civil rights groups and immigration lawyers to find out more about
the detainees have been blocked by Mr. Ashcroft's decision to hold hearings on
the detainees behind closed doors.

In the first months after Sept. 11, immigrant advocates and civil rights groups
were largely hesitant about criticizing the government's sweeping arrests and
detention of Muslim men. But as time has passed with dozens of men still
believed to be in prison, charged only with immigration violations, such groups
have begun to challenge Mr. Ashcroft's treatment of noncitizens.

Lawsuits have been filed seeking to open the immigration hearings of the Sept.
11 detainees and force the government to release the names of the detainees. In
several District Court decisions, the civil rights groups have won favorable
decisions, and the government has appealed.

The complaint by the Center for Constitutional Rights, a 36-year-old civil
rights group, was made on behalf of Muslim men who were kept in two prisons in
the New York City area long after immigration judges ordered them to leave the
country.

Those men, according to the lawsuit, had violated immigration laws and had
either agreed to leave voluntarily or had received a deportation order. Normally
in such cases, the immigration courts order the foreigners to leave within a few
weeks of their hearings.

The lawsuit focuses on conditions at the Metropolitan Detention Center in
Brooklyn, a federal jail where the Muslim detainees were kept in a
maximum-security area, and the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, N.J., where the
I.N.S. rents detention space.

One detainee named in the lawsuit said that guards at the Metropolitan Detention
Center bent his thumbs back, pushed him and kicked him in the face when he first
arrived there. For the first week, he said, he did not have a bar of soap or a
towel and he did not get his eyeglasses back from the guards for three months.

The detainee, Asif-ur-Rehman Saffi, said in the lawsuit that guards constantly
called him a terrorist and insulted his religion. Mr. Saffi, who was born in
Pakistan, is a French citizen and last month was released from prison and
deported to France. The only charge against him was working while in the United
States on a tourist visa.

Another detainee named as a plaintiff, Syed Amjad Ali Jaffri, was held in the
Metropolitan Detention Center for nearly seven months, four months after an
immigration judge ordered him deported. He said a guard at the federal prison
slammed his head against a wall, loosening some of his teeth.

Ibrahim Turkmen, another detainee cited in the lawsuit, was arrested by F.B.I.
agents on Oct. 13 at his apartment in West Babylon, N.Y. According to the
lawsuit, Mr. Turkmen spoke very little English and did not understand everything
the agents asked him, but did vehemently deny any links to terrorists.

He was eventually taken to the Passaic County Jail and charged with overstaying
his tourist visa. An immigration judge offered him a standard option in such
cases of minor immigration violations, that is, to leave voluntarily within 30
days.

Mr. Turkmen agreed but was nevertheless detained for four more months, until
Feb. 25.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 27, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Northwest: Oregon: Deadly Stowaway

BYLINE:  By Matthew Preusch (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 81 words


Immigration inspectors found the body of one man and two other stowaways who
were suffering from exposure in the rudder compartment of a container ship that
dropped anchor in Portland after a 14-day trip from Colombia.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Portland said
officials discovered the men during a routine inspection of the ship. The
survivors, who said they were Colombians, were in critical condition at a local
hospital.   Matthew Preusch (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Rockies: Colorado: Lawmaker Vows Immigration Fight

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 80 words


Representative Tom Tancredo, a Republican, announced that he is running for
re-election, saying he would fight to keep illegal immigrants out of the United
States, even if it upsets President Bush. Mr.

Tancredo angered the president this month when he said that Mr. Bush advocated
an "open door" border policy and amnesty for illegal immigrants. Mr. Tancredo
has no opposition in the August primary. A Parker City councilman, Lance Wright,
plans to seek the Democratic nomination.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 5, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Consequences Of Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 186 words


"Immigration Issues Sprout Like the Daisies" April 28 speaks about the
controversy over illegal aliens on Long Island.

The reality is that hundreds of thousands of people enter this country illegally
every year.

These people have broken the law. Studies have shown that this flood of people
keeps wages lower than they would be. The people who are harmed most by this are
minority citizens who are displaced from entry-level jobs. The ones who gain the
most are big corporations who save money on wages. In addition, this illegal
immigration is a cause of overcrowding of our schools and increased taxes. A
study by the Kaiser Family Foundation has shown that immigration, illegal and
legal, is a significant cause of the large number of people currently without
health insurance. Billions of dollars are paid every year for health services
used by these people.

Our generous country allows more legal immigration then the rest of the world
combined. American citizens should be concerned about the lack of government
enforcement of our borders. Illegal immigration should not be tolerated.

ROBERT F. LaPORTA
Dix Hills

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 5, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 162 words


To the Editor:

The White House is correct to express concern about Attorney General John
Ashcroft's proposal to empower local and state police departments to track down
illegal immigrants (front page, April 29). Authorizing local law enforcement
officials to arrest people solely based on racial profiling will impede criminal
investigations.

Many police departments have worked hard to establish positive relationships
with their communities, and to encourage all crime victims, including the
undocumented, to report crime. Police departments have recognized that the
threat of deportation can jeopardize the safety of the entire community where
fear of immigration arrest means that crimes will go unreported and therefore
uninvestigated. Putting Mr. Ashcroft's proposal into effect would only add to
existing fears in immigrant communities.

AMY GOTTLIEB
Newark, April 30, 2002

The writer is program director, American Friends Service Committee Immigrant
Rights Program.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 10, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Illegal Immigrants' Survivors Sue

BYLINE:  By Michael Janofsky (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 89 words


Families of 11 Mexican immigrants who died last May after illegally crossing the
border into Arizona have sued the federal Fish and Wildlife Service, accusing it
of having rejected an offer to place a water station in the wildlife preserve
where the Mexicans died.

The families, who are seeking $41 million, said a Tucson group, Humane Borders,
had offered to distribute drinking water in the area but never received
permission. A spokesman for the wildlife service said it had never received such
a proposal.   Michael Janofsky (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants: There's a Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 124 words


To the Editor:

I disagree with James M. Lindsay and Audrey Singer ("Local Police Should Not Do
an I.N.S. Job," Op-Ed, May 8). The local police are sworn to protect our lives
and property.

What group besides local law enforcement is better equipped to arrest, and turn
over to the I.N.S. for deportation, the eight million illegal aliens residing in
our country?

These illegal aliens are causing urban sprawl, congestion, overcrowded schools,
loss of environmental resources, and wage depression and loss of jobs for
America's poorest workers.

Legal law-abiding citizens have nothing to fear concerning their civil rights.
The rest should be kicked out of our country, as our lives may depend on it.

BOB ALLAN
Rochester Hills, Mich., May 9, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants: There's a Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 85 words


To the Editor:

Re "Local Police Should Not Do an I.N.S. Job," by James M. Lindsay and Audrey
Singer (Op-Ed, May 8):

Since when is being in the United States illegally not reason enough for an
arrest? Illegal immigrants don't need to be on a terrorist list. Police are or
should be entrusted with enforcing the law, any law, and last I looked, there
are immigration laws that make it illegal for non-United States citizens to
reside here without proper documentation.

RHONDA ROSETO
Broomfield, Colo., May 9, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Agents Say Staffing Shortage Is Undercutting Counterterrorism

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words


Staffing shortages in the New York office of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service have severely hampered the agency's ability to pursue
several objectives set for it after the Sept. 11 attacks, according to
interviews in recent weeks with I.N.S. agents and supervisors and the agents'
union.

The office's law enforcement arm has 80 agents to pursue both some of its new
terrorism-related tasks and the criminal offenses, like immigrant smuggling and
document fraud, for which it has always been responsible, according to agents
and other officials. In recent years, as many as 150 agents were assigned to the
office, they said.

The thinning of the staff -- agents and union officials blame low pay and morale
-- has meant that only 14 federal immigration agents and 9 police investigators
are assigned to find and deport roughly 1,200 illegal immigrants who came from
countries where Al Qaeda has been active. The mission, called the Absconders
Apprehension Initiative, is a Justice Department priority in the nation's
counterterrorism efforts. After three months, fewer than 150 have been arrested,
officials said.

At the same time, the task of ensuring that no illegal immigrants from Arab or
other Muslim nations hold any of several thousand potentially delicate jobs at
local airports or nuclear plants has fallen to seven agents. Much of their work
as part of the new counterterrorism responsibilities remains undone, officials
said.

An I.N.S. spokesman in New York would not discuss staffing in the district.
Joseph R. Greene, the agency's assistant commissioner of investigations in
Washington, while also choosing not to discuss specific staffing levels,
acknowledged in a recent telephone interview that attrition had long been a
nationwide problem for the agency.

He said the I.N.S. was hiring more investigators in New York and around the
country. Legislation signed on Tuesday provides for 200 additional agents,
bringing the nationwide total to about 2,200. But several senior officials,
citing the recruiting and hiring process, said the agents would not be at work
for more than a year.

So, for the time being in New York, the low staffing levels leave difficult
choices for supervisors in the Investigations Division, the law enforcement arm,
which covers the state's 14 southern counties. "We are at a point every day
where we have to make pretty tough calls in what we do and don't do," Mr. Greene
said.

Mr. Greene, who oversees the Investigations Division nationwide, defended the
agency's ability to fulfill its counterterrorism responsibilities in New York
and elsewhere.

"New York has committed most of its resources to counterterrorism work," he
said, adding that several immigration agents work with the Joint Terrorist Task
Force of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the New York Police Department
to prevent further attacks. "That remains Job 1 and certainly remains Job 1 in
the New York District, and they're doing a hell of a job."

Since Sept. 11, the I.N.S. has emerged as one of the nation's first and most
important lines of defense against terrorist threats. But a series of widely
publicized bureaucratic missteps, including mailing visa extensions to two of
the dead Sept. 11 hijackers six months after the attack, have undermined the
agency's credibility.

James K. Kallstrom, the former assistant director of the F.B.I. who until
recently headed New York State's Office of Public Security, said the small
number of agents almost doomed the agency's law enforcement arm to failure.
"They just have nowhere near enough people," said Mr. Kallstrom, who is
continuing to serve as a security adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki. "They need a
geometric increase."

Before Sept. 11, Richard J. Gallo, the president of the Federal Law Enforcement
Officers Association, which represents the agents, testified before Congress
several times about the agency's problems. Last month, with other legislation
pending that would reorganize the agency, he reiterated his concerns to a House
subcommittee.

"The staff shortage has made it very difficult, if not close to impossible, to
do what they have been tasked to do," he said in an interview last week,
referring to the agency's counterterrorism responsibilities.

Mr. Gallo said attrition at the agency was largely driven by low pay -- the top
end of the pay scale for rank-and-file special agents is $49,959 a year, nearly
$10,000 less than at other large federal law enforcement agencies -- and poor
morale. I.N.S. agents often leave for higher-paying jobs at the Drug Enforcement
Administration, the Customs Service and other federal agencies.

The problems with the Absconders Apprehension Initiative are one example of the
effect that the staffing shortage is having on the New York office, according to
interviews with agents, supervisors and senior I.N.S. officials.

At the outset, Justice Department officials in Washington estimated 400 to 500
illegal immigrants were subject to the program in the New York area, and
immigration agency officials assigned about a dozen special agents to the task,
several officials said. But by mid-March, it became apparent that the number of
people being sought was 1,200, but the agency could provide only 14 agents. The
officials said 50 would be needed to complete the program effectively. Seven New
York City police detectives and two state troopers were later assigned to help,
but they are unfamiliar with federal immigration law and must be accompanied by
an agent to perform many tasks, the officials said.

The immigration agency has also said that tracking down students from Muslim and
Arab nations who violate the terms of their student visas is a priority. In New
York, the Investigations Division has been too shorthanded to begin the task,
officials said. In California, though, arrests began in December.

Several agents and officials in the New York office also attribute the low
morale to the assistant district director for investigations, Daniel Molerio, a
senior manager whom they describe as abrasive and prone to arbitrary work
assignments.

In one instance, the agents and officials said, Mr. Molerio pressured a
supervisor whose job is to oversee work-site enforcement to jump into the
polluted Bronx River to examine a damaged agency boat. The supervisor went in
after another refused, and was later out sick for 30 days.

Mr. Molerio said agency policy prohibited him from commenting. An I.N.S
spokesman, Mark Thorn, defended him, saying that Mr. Molerio has been an agent
for 20 years, the head of the investigations division for 10 and is a graduate
of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. "These credentials
speak for themselves," Mr. Thorn said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Beacons In The Desert

BYLINE:  By Michael Janofsky (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 95 words


Newly erected signal beacons in the state's desert are expected to reduce the
number of illegal aliens who die trying to cross into the United States from
Mexico.

Each 30-foot beacon has instructions in English and Spanish and a button that
sets off a strobe light that blinks every 10 seconds. The beacons were installed
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in areas where border patrol
agents have found aliens sick or dead in scorching summer heat. More than 300
people die each year after crossing the border, many from dehydration.   Michael
Janofsky (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Say an Illegal Immigrant Imprisoned and Raped Two Girls

BYLINE:  By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 396 words


A 21-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico was in police custody last night,
facing charges that he coaxed two teenage girls there to travel to New York with
him, raped them and held them as sex slaves, the authorities said.

The man, David Perez, of 254 22nd Street in Brooklyn, was arrested on Monday and
was expected to be arraigned this morning on charges of rape, sodomy, promoting
prostitution and unlawful imprisonment.

According to a police report, Mr. Perez held two girls, one 17 and one 19,
against their will from May 12 until Monday and raped and sodomized them.

Mr. Perez also "forced them to have sex with other males in exchange for money,"
the police report charges.

A law enforcement official involved in the case, speaking on the condition that
his name not be used, said last night that the arrest came after the two girls
escaped from a brothel in Manhattan, sought help from a woman they encountered,
and led the police to Mr. Perez.

The girls described an ordeal to the police that they said began when Mr. Perez
approached them in Mexico.

"He went down there and convinced these girls to come with him, telling them
they would find riches and fame in the U.S.," the official said. "Then he gets
them to his apartment in Brooklyn, and he rapes them."

The official said Mr. Perez forced his victims into prostitution at a brothel on
the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He would not disclose the location of the
brothel or say whether it had been shut down by the police. He said that it
might still have been under surveillance.

The official said that the brothel was patronized by Mexican laborers "and it is
known among people in the Mexican community."

He said the two girls told detectives that Mr. Perez had taken them to work at
the brothel on Monday morning, along with another girl. It was unclear whether
the third girl had been brought from Mexico and held against her will, the
official said.

After leaving the three girls, Mr. Perez left, the official said. At some point
on Monday, he said, the girls used the guise of shopping for groceries to
escape.

The identities of the three girls were not disclosed last night. The official
said the police had not located one of them.

The police said that Mr. Perez was arrested at 5 p.m. Monday in the same Sunset
Park precinct where he lived.

It was unclear how long Mr. Perez has been living in New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 19, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Americans Detained in Pakistan Near Afghan Border Had No Ties to Terror, U.S.
Says

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM with DEXTER FILKINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


The Bush administration disclosed today that two American citizens of Afghan
origin were detained in Pakistan last month for immigration violations along the
Afghan border, and that one was deported to the United States last weekend.

But officials said neither man had any suspected link to Al Qaeda or terrorism,
and that the man deported to the United States was not under arrest or any form
of detention here.

The announcement came today after senior administration officials, responding to
reports from Pakistani authorities, repeatedly insisted that they had no
information about any detained Americans.

Officials here explained that apparent contradiction by saying that the earlier
reports by the Pakistani authorities had suggested detainees with links to Al
Qaeda, a profile that did not fit these cases.

"This is what we know," one senior administration official said today. "Whether
those other stories are an exaggeration of this, or something else, I don't
know."

Indeed, many questions remained unanswered after a week of conflicting accounts
by Pakistani and American officials about whether any Americans have been
detained in desolate Pakistani border areas, where officials are convinced that
Qaeda and Taliban fighters have taken refuge.

Senior American officials said today that they knew of no other Americans with
Afghan connections in Pakistani custody. But Reuters reported today that two
Afghan-Americans suspected of involvement with Al Qaeda were arrested on June 9
and are in custody in Pakistan.

The Reuters report quotes a Pakistani Interior Ministry official as identifying
those men as Mohammad Tayyab and Afsar Khan. The News, a Pakistani paper,
reported last week that American commandos had detained two Pakistanis with
those names in a raid on a Pakistani tribal area on June 9.

The administration did not release the names or personal details about the two
Americans it said were detained in Pakistan last month, because, it said,
neither has waived his rights under the federal Privacy Act. But a senior
official said their names were not the same as those in the Reuters report.

A State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, said one of the men was
detained in the Northwest Frontier Province of Pakistan at the Afghan border on
May 4 for visa violations and was returned to the United States last weekend.

The other man was detained for similar reasons on or about May 27 and is still
in Pakistani custody, though an American consular official spoke with him by
phone today, Mr. Boucher said. A senior official said that man was carrying a
map of the border region and other documents that made Pakistani authorities
suspicious.

According to a senior official, both men said they had gone to visit family
members in Afghanistan before Sept. 11 and were trying to return to the United
States via Pakistan. The first man was eventually released after Pakistani
authorities decided he did not pose a threat, and Mr. Boucher, speaking of the
second man, said, "I have no indication that the case is materially different
than the first one."

It was unclear how many more, if any, Americans were still being held in
Pakistan. Pakistani officials said today that more Americans were being held,
but they refused to elaborate. In previous statements, Pakistani officials have
referred to the detention in recent weeks of about half a dozen Americans.

Asked why it took so long for the administration to learn about the two men it
now says were in custody, Mr. Boucher said: "I think to some extent it's because
we were looking for the wrong thing and asking the wrong questions, frankly. We
were looking for either larger numbers, we were looking for Americans, you know,
Al Qaeda kind of Americans who had recently been detained and it just didn't pop
up above the radar screen until we checked more thoroughly."

One senior official said the cases of the two men known to have been detained
had been handled at a low and routine level by consular officers and others.
They aroused so few suspicions that higher-ranking officials at the State
Department or the military or law enforcement agencies were not made aware of
them.

Several law enforcement and administration officials here said the Pakistani
security authorities, eager to win favor with the United States, sometimes
overstated the significance of arrests, apparently to demonstrate a vigorous
effort to combat terrorism. At the same time, the Americans said, the Pakistani
government had provided important assistance to the antiterror effort.

"Unfortunately, we have found in the Danny Pearl case and elsewhere that
sometimes not everything they said proved to be true in the long run," one
official said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 25, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: More Bodies In The Desert

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 61 words


The authorities found the bodies of three illegal immigrants in southern Arizona
over the weekend.

The first body, of a 23-year-old man, was discovered near Kartchner Caverns. A
Border Patrol pilot spotted the other two bodies, of a man and a woman,
northwest of Ajo. Their deaths bring to 52 the number of immigrants known to
have died in the state since Oct. 1.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 26, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Border Crash Kills 6 As Van Hits Oncoming Traffic

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 25


Six people were killed on Monday night and several more were injured when a van
loaded with 27 people believed to be illegal immigrants, apparently trying to
avoid a Border Patrol check, drove into oncoming traffic with its lights off and
struck a sports utility vehicle head-on, officials said.

The van, traveling west in the eastbound lanes of Interstate 8 in rural San
Diego County, sideswiped two cars before colliding with a Ford Explorer, sending
it off the road and down an embankment, said Officer Steven Lopez, a spokesman
for the California Highway Patrol.

The Dodge van, most of whose passengers were believed to be illegal immigrants,
one from Brazil and many of the others from Mexico, hit a Toyota van before
coming to a stop on the highway.

The driver of the van and four passengers died, along with the driver of the
Explorer, Larry Baca, 50, of Albuquerque. A passenger in the Explorer was
critically injured. Twenty-seven people were treated in hospitals.

Officer Lopez said Border Patrol agents had told the highway patrol just before
the accident, at 9 p.m., that the van was traveling in the wrong direction on
I-8.

The accident occurred about 15 miles north of the Mexican border and 45 miles
east of San Diego. The Interstate in that area is "heavy in illegal immigration
traffic," Officer Lopez said.

He said it had not been determined when the van, which had been traveling west,
switched into the eastbound lanes. The Border Patrol checkpoint, he said, is
three miles from the site of the accident, in the westbound lanes on a steep
embankment. Vehicles carrying illegal immigrants have been known to leave the
highway before the checkpoint and get on the lower eastbound lanes to avoid
detection.

"These individuals black out their lights and blow by that area," Officer Lopez
said, noting that it was also possible that the driver cut across on one of the
dirt roads that cross the median.

Officer Lopez said he spoke with passengers in the van to find out what
happened. One man who had been in the middle of the van could not provide
details of how the accident occurred because he said he was lying down and had
people on top of him.

"All he felt was one impact, and then another," Officer Lopez said.

The van was not being pursued by law enforcement officials, he said.

"This was just a solo and ridiculous act on the part of the driver," he said of
the switch in lanes.

Agent Raleigh Leonard, a public information officer for the San Diego section of
the Border Patrol, said the problem was the fault of smugglers, who are paid to
bring illegal immigrants into the country. Fees typically range from $1,500 to
$2,500 for Mexicans, he said, and a Brazilian would pay $5,000 to $10,000.

"As far as I'm concerned, Agent Leonard said, this is no different than leading
14 or 15 people to their deaths in the desert. They know the consequences, and
they go ahead and do it anyway."

"This is just one of the evasive tactics the smugglers are willing to use," he
said. "They didn't have to do what they did. This was a totally needless and
senseless act."

Agent Leonard's sector, which stretches 66 miles east from the Pacific Ocean
along the Mexican border, has now had eight deaths involving illegal immigrants
and smugglers since October. In the year before that, three people died as a
result of border accidents.

It is not unusual for the police to find vehicles in which passengers jam
inside, impairing the driver's ability to maneuver.

In May, 15 people were injured when a packed van crashed into a boulder on a
state highway in a desolate part of San Diego County.

"We are concerned about it," said Pedro Ochoa, a spokesman for the Mexican
consulate in San Diego. "The people who make the business with the illegal
immigrants take this route and risk their lives."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rescue workers at the scene of a four-vehicle accident that
killed six people in California on Monday night after a van crashed into
oncoming traffic. (Jim Baird/San Diego Union-Tribune via Associated Press) Map
of California highlighting site of accident.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 30, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BRIEFING: TRANSPORTATION;
D.M.V. FRAUD

BYLINE:  By Steve Strunsky

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 120 words


A two-year investigation unveiled by the Division of Criminal Justice last week
turned up thousands of cases in which fraudulent driver's licenses were issued
to undocumented immigrants with the help of state employees.

The division announced the indictment of 36 people, including eight employees of
the Division of Motor Vehicles who were fired as a result, on charges of fraud,
conspiracy and official misconduct. In four separate but similar schemes,
officials said, illegal driver's license brokers recruited customers, then
arranged for stand-ins to take their written and road tests at D.M.V. offices.
Sometimes, official said, the licenses would then be used to buy or lease cars
fraudulently.   Steve Strunsky

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 21, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Dozens of Israeli Jews Are Being Kept in Federal Detention

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN with ALISON LEIGH COWAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1191 words


Among the more than 1,100 people the government has detained since Sept. 11 are
dozens of young Israeli Jews who came to the United States in recent months and
took jobs selling trinkets at shopping malls throughout the country.

Charged with working without proper papers, some have been kept in detention by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service for nearly a month. In some cases,
the immigration service has invoked special post-Sept. 11 laws to keep the
Israelis in jail but presented no evidence of a link to the terrorism
investigation.

"We think there are about 50 in detention now, in San Diego, Houston, Kansas
City, St. Louis and Cleveland, and there are some who have been released," said
Ido Aharoni, a spokesman for the Israeli consulate in New York. "It's not easy
to get an exact count. They may be embarrassed that they were working illegally,
and we only find out when their mothers call, because they haven't been in
touch, and we check and find them in jail."

Normally, working without papers is treated as a minor offense, for which
foreigners are not detained.

While both the detainees and their lawyers say they are baffled by the
detentions, some of those familiar with the cases said they believed the impetus
was the interest of law enforcement officials in companies that offer young
Israelis -- and perhaps others in the Middle East -- help in coming to, and
working in, the United States.

"It's hard to understand," said Suzanne Brown, a St. Louis lawyer representing 5
of the 10 Israelis detained there. "Just today, I talked with the I.N.S. officer
in charge of the St. Louis office, who said he doesn't know who is conducting
the investigation of the Israelis. And what are they investigating? I don't
know."

In Ohio, on Oct. 31, the immigration service detained nine men and two women,
all of whom had valid passports and tourist visas. Nine of the 11 were released
on bond on Friday, but two remain in the Medina County jail, outside of
Cleveland. The next hearing for the Israelis -- all in their early 20's and
recently finished with their Israeli army service -- is scheduled for Nov. 27,
in Cleveland.

"It doesn't make sense that they held any of these kids as long as they did, and
we don't know of any reason why they're still holding two," said David Leopold,
the Cleveland lawyer representing them. "You hear there's more than 1,000
detainees, and if these cases are any example, you have to wonder if they're
just locking people up to make it look like they're getting somewhere on their
investigation."

Dan Nelson, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said that he was unaware of
the Israeli detainees, but that generally, since Sept. 11, there has been
greater scrutiny of those who violate immigration laws.

"We are taking every step we can to prevent future terrorist attacks," Mr.
Nelson said. "We are conducting the largest investigation in U.S. history, and
we are leaving no stone unturned."

In New York, immigration officials began deporting five young Israeli moving men
who have been in federal custody since Sept. 11. Two of the deportees, Oded
Ellner and Omer Gavriel Marmari, landed in Tel Aviv yesterday. The others, Paul
Kurzberg and his brother Sivan, and Yaron Shmuel, were expected to fly to Israel
today.

The five aroused attention in New Jersey after people noticed them going to
unusual lengths to photograph the World Trade Center ruins and making light of
the situation. One photograph developed by the F.B.I. showed Sivan Kurzberg
holding a lighted lighter in the foreground, with the smoldering wreckage in the
background, said Steven Noah Gordon, a lawyer for the five.

As objectionable as their behavior may be, Mr. Gordon said of their long
incarceration, "It's not a crime and they were being treated as if it was."

The five were asked to take polygraph tests before being allowed to leave. But
Paul Kurzberg refused on principle to divulge much about his role in the Israeli
army or subsequently working for people who may have had ties to Israeli
intelligence, Mr. Gordon said. His client had trouble with one seven-hour
polygraph test administered last week, but did better on a second try.

Mr. Kurzberg's lawyer said it was his understanding that Attorney General John
Ashcroft had to sign off on his release.

In the Ohio cases, the immigration service said at a hearing last week that the
11 Israelis were "special" nonterrorist cases. But Judge Elizabeth Hacker, the
immigration judge conducting the hearing, questioned the agency's case for
keeping the Israelis in jail.

"Although the service alleges that these cases are 'special,' it has failed to
present any credible evidence of the basis for this finding," Judge Hacker said
in a bond memorandum. "Indeed, the service has failed to submit any evidence of
terrorist activity or of a threat to the national security. There is no evidence
of the risk of harm to the community."

Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the immigration service, said decisions on
when to refuse bond were made case by case.

When Judge Hacker set bond, the government filed an emergency appeal, which,
under procedures adopted last month, automatically allows the government extra
time to detain people.

At the hearing, the government lawyers said the Israelis were the subject of a
criminal investigation by the F.B.I. of an individual or company that promised
living and travel expenses in return for selling at shopping-mall pushcarts. The
government says the Ohio detainees worked for Quality Sales Inc., a Florida
concern.

Tom Dean, the lawyer representing Quality Sales, declined to provide information
about the company or its principals, but he said the company was cooperating
with federal authorities to resolve "any concern about possible criminal
conduct."

The F.B.I. refused to comment on its dealings with Quality Sales or other such
companies.

Some of those familiar with the cases said such companies may provide an open
channel for terrorists to enter the country without background checks.

The Israelis who were detained in Ohio lived in three apartments in Findlay,
Ohio, south of Toledo, and worked in several different malls.

"When they came Oct. 31, the immigration agents knocked on the door, and waked
us from sleep," said Ori Ben-Tur, one of the Ohio detainees who was released on
Friday. "When we asked why they arrest us, they said they suspect we work in
illegal jobs. They told us we could probably come back to our apartment the same
day, or the day after."

When the detention dragged on, he said, the Israelis became increasingly
worried, and, after several days in detention, arranged legal representation by
Mr. Leopold.

Mr. Ben-Tur said he and the others had been interrogated separately.

"Some of the questions weren't so nice for an Israeli, who has served in the
army, and fought against terrorism," he said. "I asked them, do they know what
Israel thinks of the Arab countries, do they know Israel thinks of America as a
big, big friend?"

Mr. Ben-Tur, and his lawyer, said they had no idea why he and most of the others
had been released, while two, Oren Behr and Yaniv Hani, were still being
detained.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ori Ben-Tur and his girlfriend, Rachel Sabag, in background,
were among 11 Israeli Jews detained in Findlay, Ohio. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service referred to the detainees as "special" nonterrorist
cases. (Michael Nash for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Basem Diab

BYLINE:  By Greg Winter

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 300 words


Nearly nine months pregnant, Basima Diab sits by the phone most days, waiting
for her husband, Basem, to call from the detention center where he has spent the
last two weeks.

She worries about whether he has enough blankets. "It gets very cold in there,"
she said.

With their 3-year-old daughter in tow, the Diabs, both 34, came from Syria on
tourist visas nearly a year ago, hoping for a taste of the relaxed social norms
that draw so many from the Middle East to the suburbs outside of Disneyland.

A few months later, Mrs. Diab began what has been a difficult pregnancy, with
frequent trips to the emergency room to treat her diabetes. The health care has
been so good that the couple decided to stay in the United States until the baby
was born, if not longer.

To cover the doctor visits and rent on their apartment in Stanton, Calif., Mr.
Diab started loading trucks at Sasha Cosmetics, a company in Huntington Beach,
Calif. "He's an educated guy, an engineer," Niazi Azhak, the owner, said. "But
he couldn't find work anywhere else."

Nor was he supposed to. Under the terms of his visa, working is a deportable
offense. Yet Mr. Diab stacked boxes at the plant for several weeks, earning
roughly $1,500 a month, about 10 times what he might have made in Syria, his
wife said. Then, 15 minutes after he showed up for his shift on Nov. 7, Mr. Diab
was taken away by federal agents.

At a minimum, immigration officials said, Mr. Diab overstayed his visa, and
would likely get a hearing before an immigration judge in the next few weeks. In
the meantime, his former employers have said they would buy the family plane
tickets back to Syria, while others in the Middle Eastern community in Orange
County would try to find money for bail, if the judge granted it, and food for
Mrs. Diab.   Greg Winter

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Basima Diab with her 3-year-old daughter, Lama, in their
apartment in Stanton, Calif. Her husband, Basem, has been detained since Nov. 7
by immigration officials. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Different Defense Is Planned For Second Trial in Beating

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Aug. 17


The lawyer for the next defendant to go on trial on charges he attacked two
Mexican day laborers said that his client will take a very different approach
than the first defendant, Christopher Slavin, whose trial culminated Thursday in
a conviction.

Mr. Slavin never took the stand and rarely showed a hint of emotion throughout
his two-week trial. And his lawyer, Robert J. Del Col, declined to call
witnesses of his own.

Instead, Mr. Del Col built a case around inconsistencies in the victims'
testimony and what he said were discrepancies between their accounts of the
attack and the physical evidence found at the scene.

The jury did not buy that argument. After a two-week trial with 33 witnesses,
jury members took less than five hours of deliberation to convict Mr. Slavin on
all six counts he faced, saying they believed that he was one of two men who
lured the victims to an abandoned building in Shirley under the pretext of
offering them work, then tried to kill them with a knife and a post-hole digger.

Mr. Slavin, 29, is scheduled to be sentenced next month and could receive up to
50 years in prison.

The predicament of the second defendant, Ryan D. Wagner, is different.

In sworn statements to the police and in newspaper interviews, Mr. Wagner has
already confessed to participating in the attack, apologized and vowed to change
his ways.

It is not yet clear whether Mr. Wagner, 20, will testify, said his lawyer,
Thomas F. Liotti. But in statements to the police, he described how a plan to
beat up the two Mexicans -- a plan that Mr. Slavin had suggested -- spun out of
control.

Mr. Wagner, his lawyer said, was acting in self-defense when he pulled out a
fishing knife and slashed one of the workers. In interviews, Mr. Wagner has said
he was under the influence of L.S.D. and alcohol at the time of the attack and
has difficulty controlling his anger.

"Maybe a jury would look at that from a clinical standpoint and say, 'Look,
there were these mitigating circumstances in Ryan's life,' and maybe show a
degree of compassion for Wagner that they didn't show for Slavin," Mr. Liotti
said.

It was sheer rage, and not a hatred for people of other races, that prompted the
younger man to take part in the attack, Mr. Liotti said, adding that he intended
to call at least one psychologist to testify about that phenomenon.

"I think it was about anger management as far as he was concerned, and impulse
control problems," he said.

Drew Biondo, a spokesman for the Suffolk County district attorney, James M.
Catterson Jr., was skeptical of Mr. Wagner's defense strategy.

"He saw what a jury did in a case with less evidence," he said. "I've never seen
a jury let a defendant off because of irresponsible actions."

But Mr. Liotti said his client is different. Since last September, Mr. Wagner
has obscured his tattoos, which included swastikas, attended therapy regularly
and severed his friendship with Mr. Slavin, he said.

Nonetheless, Mr. Liotti said he is concerned that the first trial may prejudice
the second, which is scheduled to begin next month in Suffolk County Court under
the jurisdiction of Judge Charles F. Cacciabaudo, who also presided over the
Slavin case. Mr. Liotti said he will seek to have the trial postponed, moved to
a different county and placed under another judge's jurisdiction.

David Bookstaver, a spokesman for the State Office of Court Administration, said
that changes in venue are rare.

Even so, Mr. Slavin's conviction does not necessarily mean that Mr. Wagner will
be judged similarly, said James B. Jacobs, a professor at N.Y.U. School of Law.

"One jury could find that one person was acting in some kind of brutal way, and
the other jury may find that the other person was less responsible in some way,
that he wasn't acting in concert, that he was surprised by the violence
perpetrated by the second person," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Law Improves Conditions For Shepherds

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 128 words


A bill signed into law over the weekend grants hundreds of Peruvian shepherds in
the desolate western slopes of the Sierra access to heat, water, a ride into
town and a cellphone. The estimated 1,000 shepherds in California are exempt
from minimum wage requirements, earning a federally set monthly wage of $900.

The measure signed by Gov. Gray Davis affirms a July decision by a state labor
panel to raise the minimum wage to $1,050 and guarantees future pay increases
based on the minimum wage. The law also requires ranchers to provide running
water, heat, cooking facilities, a refrigerator and a cellphone for medical
emergencies. The state's sheep industry has depended for decades on guest
workers on temporary visas, with most of the workers coming from Peru.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Big Mexican Breadwinner: The Migrant Worker

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1303 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 19


Three construction workers who gathered outside a Western Union office on the
west side of this city seemed too tired to drag themselves home, much less help
lift their homeland, Mexico, out of poverty.

But each time they go to the money transfer counter to send cash to their
parents and siblings, the workers fortify a multibillion-dollar network that has
made Mexico one of the leading recipients of immigrant remittances in the world.

Quick electronic transactions turn the workers, who barely make enough money to
support themselves in the United States, into breadwinners for their nation.

Millions of monthly money orders, averaging $200 each, generate more than $9.3
billion a year for Mexico, almost half of the $23 billion sent to all of Latin
America and the Caribbean. Mexico, a nation of 100 million people, earns almost
as much from remittances as India, with a population of one billion.

Remittances are Mexico's third-largest source of income, after oil exports and
tourism. In much of rural Mexico remittances exceed local and state budgets.

Across Latin America, the flow of remittances to the region's poorest countries
tops all international development assistance and is increasing by an average 11
percent a year.

So while world governments and financial leaders gathered at a United Nations
conference in Monterrey, Mexico, to ponder what rich countries could do to help
poor ones, Mexican workers like Ricardo Morales were already leading by example.

The brawny 26-year-old roofer is from the central Mexican state of Zacatecas,
which has one of the highest migration rates. He said that after four years of
work in Chicago he has turned his parents' tin shack near the village of
Susticacan into a three-bedroom concrete house.

He has a savings account of some $3,000 back home that he intends to use to help
a younger brother go to college. He recently bought an acre of land, where he
will build a small home for himself.

Meanwhile he lives with four other men in a one-bedroom apartment not far off
West 26th Street, a bustling commercial strip of taco stands, dollar stores and
money-sending offices that, according to the Chicago comptroller's office, is
close behind upscale Michigan Avenue in the sales taxes it raises for the city.

Mr. Morales says he earns about $500 a week and sends about $400 home each
month. "Our thinking," he said, "is that we will make sacrifices now so that our
families can live better and so that one day we will live better back home."

Mexico has begun to take heed of how these simple dreams fuel real progress.
Abandoning the attitudes of past governments who viewed immigrants as an
embarrassment, Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, has hailed them as "national
heroes."

In speeches at home and abroad, he has boasted that the economic output of some
23 million Mexicans and Mexican-Americans who live in the United States is an
estimated $450 billion. Mexico's output is a little less than $600 billion.

Mr. Fox has moved ahead of other Latin American leaders in trying to attract
more "migradolares," or migrants' dollars, and in carrying out programs aimed at
harnessing the power of the southward flood of money for development.

"These guys are potentially, and into the foreseeable future, the most important
economic partner of Mexico," said Deputy Foreign Minister Enrique Berruga. "It's
good that we have investment from Finland and from Singapore and what have you.
But more important is to get these guys engaged."

In an interview, President Fox echoed concerns expressed in recent forums
organized by the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank, lamenting
that an overwhelming majority of immigrant dollars sent to Mexico were used to
provide for the day-to-day survival of the poorest families. Little is saved.
Even less is invested in projects that could stimulate economic growth.

"The families that receive the money," he said, "use it to buy shoes or beans,
clothes or books for their children. Now we want to channel part of that money
for production, for projects that generate jobs."

Mr. Fox has expanded government programs that match, peso for peso, the money
that immigrants send for public works projects in their home communities.

Mexican officials have also negotiated with banks and wire transfer agencies in
the United States to make it easier and cheaper for immigrants to send money
home. Beginning in December some 15 banking institutions with branches from Los
Angeles to Delaware agreed to allow immigrants from Mexico, whether in this
country legally or not, to use identification cards they receive from Mexican
consulates to open bank accounts.

The accounts will allow immigrants to send A.T.M. cards to relatives back home,
so rather than spending $25 to send $200 at a typical money transfer counter,
immigrants can give their families access to funds in the United States for
about $3 per transaction.

In the wake of the attacks on the United States last September, the Mexican
government has begun to distribute new digitally coded consular identification
cards, which check an applicant's information against computerized census and
voter rolls in Mexico. The first cards were distributed here last week.

Mexican officials said that during three weeks in December in Oxnard, Calif.,
some 12,000 new accounts were opened, averaging about $3,500 each. Officials at
Bank of America estimated that new accounts had generated $50 million for
financial institutions across California.

The Mexican consul in Chicago, Carlos Sada, reported that his staff could barely
keep up with the demand for the new identification cards. Hortensia Martinez,
30, a hotel maid and the single mother of a 2-year-old, said she had heard about
the possibility of using the ID cards to open bank accounts, and she thought
that having an account might inspire her to save a portion of her $300 weekly
income. "I want to open a restaurant in Mexico," she said. "That way my son will
never have to work for anyone but himself."

Recognizing their own potential, Mexican immigrants across the United States
have organized themselves in the last decade into powerful hometown clubs that
finance public works projects and small businesses in Mexican communities that
would otherwise languish.

They raise money among themselves to build roads, install water and sewage
systems, erect schools and distribute scholarships.

Officials at the United Federation of Zacatecas Clubs in Illinois said they
expected to provide nearly one-quarter of the $2.5 million to be spent in
Zacatecas this year for baseball parks, highway construction, computer centers
and community meeting halls.

On a day when the Archdiocese of Chicago announced the closing of several black
Catholic churches, Jose Luis Gutierrez, president of an Illinois federation of
clubs from the state of Michoacan, boasted that his member organizations had
financed the construction or renovation of dozens of churches across that state
in central Mexico.

The money comes as a mixed blessing to communities across rural Mexico. Ricardo
Morales's hometown, Susticacan, population 1,350, has been transformed from a
tumbledown village into a well-manicured but empty town.

Many of its 400 homes have American-style facades. But most of them are empty,
because their owners live in the United States. Enrollment at the elementary and
junior high school, built partly with money from immigrants, steadily declines.

"All the progress you see here comes thanks to the United States," said Anacleto
Santiago, 77, who raised six sons while working in Chicago. They all work in
Chicago now, and he receives help from them.

But Mr. Santiago also acknowledged that as more pretty houses go up in
Susicacan, more and more people go north. "If it weren't for God," he said,
"this place would be completely abandoned."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Customers lined up at a money transfer office, above, in a
Latin American neighborhood of Chicago. One place that receives such remittances
is the village of Susticacan, below, in the Mexican state of Zacatecas. (Scott
Olson for The New York Times); (Lynsey Addario/Saba, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 21, 2002 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrant-Camp Operators Face Forced Labor Charges

BYLINE:   By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 647 words


Six people who run migrant labor camps east of Buffalo were indicted this week
on the unusual federal charge of forced labor, accused of virtually enslaving 40
Mexican workers and threatening them with physical harm if they tried to escape.

The United States attorney in Buffalo unsealed an indictment on Wednesday that
said a ring of labor contractors threatened the migrants if they tried to escape
before paying off more than $1,000 in debt for transportation, food, rent and
electricity.

The indictment said several dozen Mexican migrants who were desperate for work
were victims of an elaborate forced labor ring. The migrants, the indictment
said, were transported from Arizona last summer in crowded, stiflingly hot vans
that had no seats and inoperable windows. At times, one van carried 30 people,
and the migrants were charged $1,000 for the trip.

When the workers arrived in New York, the indictment said, 30 of them were
squeezed into a farmhouse in Albion, halfway between Buffalo and Rochester. In
that house, 11 workers slept in a small room that had just three beds.

United States Attorney Michael A. Battle said the indictments were the first in
the nation bringing charges of forced labor under the Victims of Trafficking and
Violence Prevention Act of 2000, which increased penalties for forced labor and
involuntary servitude.

The defendants were also charged with trafficking for purposes of using forced
labor, knowingly transporting illegal aliens and violating federal statutes that
protect migrant and seasonal laborers.

Those indicted were farm contractors, who serve as middlemen providing farmers
in the United States with low-cost labor from Mexico, Guatemala and other
countries.

One of the migrants, Miguel, who refused to give his last name for fear of
reprisals by the contractors' friends, said, "They threatened us that if we
didn't work harder they would lock us in a small truck for a month without
feeding us."

Miguel, who worked at a squash farm, said that in Arizona the contractors
promised that he would be paid $500 a week in New York and would not have to pay
for rent or electricity. He said that when he arrived in New York, one farm
contractor told him that he would earn $5.15 an hour and that he would have to
pay $30 a week rent and $10 a week for electricity.

Officials in the United States attorney's office said the contractors improperly
withheld living expenses from the migrants, used guards to keep them from
leaving, and warned that immigration officials would capture them if they left
or spoke out.

Stuart Mitchell, chief executive of Rural Opportunities Inc., a nonprofit group
based in Rochester that helps train and house farm workers, said there were
10,000 to 15,000 migrant farm laborers in western New York, with many living in
unsatisfactory conditions.

"It is a desperate situation for thousands of people who are finding it
difficult to find employment to feed their families," he said. "Farm contractors
play a necessary role, but obviously it's open to great abuse."

The indictments accused Maria Garcia, her husband, Jose I. Garcia, and their
sons, Elias Botello and Jose J. Garcia, with running a forced labor ring. The
most serious charge, subjecting workers to forced labor, carries a maximum
penalty of 20 years in prison. Another relative, Rogelio Espinoza, and a helper
from Arizona, Sylvia Munoz Rubio, were also indicted.

The six defendants pleaded not guilty. Lee Hoover, a court-appointed lawyer for
Maria Garcia, said, "There are a lot of allegations put forward, with not a lot
of evidence to support them, and we look forward to vigorously representing Ms.
Garcia."

After escaping, the workers contacted Farmworker Legal Services of New York,
which contacted the Justice Department. The 10 workers who contacted the legal
services group have been granted temporary visas to serve as witnesses in the
case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 2002



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about the federal indictment of six people on
forced labor charges involving migrant labor camps near Buffalo misstated the
given name of a lawyer who is representing one of them. He is Timothy W. Hoover,
not Lee.


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 30, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Those H-1B Visas And Americans' Jobs

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 89 words


To the Editor:

The H-1B program was never about any shortage of engineers or programmers, but
is just a way to cut wages. This program will never induce more Americans to
pursue technical careers; in fact, the results will be just the opposite, since
increased supply results in decreased demand. If our government is serious about
having more American citizens become engineers and computer scientists it will
end this program once and for all.

RANDLE C. SINK
Brea, Calif., June 17

The writer works as an electrical compliance engineer.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 30, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Those H-1B Visas And Americans' Jobs

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 142 words


To the Editor:

"As the Tech Economy Goes, So Go Special Visas" (June 16) described the H-1B
visa as intended for "highly skilled foreigners to help fill jobs when no
qualified Americans can be found."

I am so sick and tired of the high-tech employers' whine that schools in the
United States are still not turning out enough graduates in math and science.

American employers don't use the ones that have graduated!

I have a friend with a master's degree in math; I have a bachelor's degree in
math and almost a master's in computer science. Yet we've been out of work for
over a year with scant opportunities.

Why should we import more H-1B's? Why should my smart college-age kids be
interested in pursuing a "career" like their dad's, being a disposable wage
slave facing forced early retirement without pension?

JAMES JORDAN
Colorado Springs, June 21




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SCREENERS;
Airport Workers See Bill as Ticket to a Better Life

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1077 words

DATELINE: SEATAC, Wash., Nov. 16


While airport security companies are in an uproar about the Congressional bill
that would put them out of business, many of the 28,000 workers in the industry
think the bill is not a bad idea at all -- if it means they can get rehired as
better-compensated federal employees.

"Benefits. It would be really nice to get some benefits," Stanley Reeves, a
38-year-old luggage screener at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, said today
in explaining his support of the measure, approved today by both houses of
Congress, that would federalize passenger screening at airports.

"The only benefit I get right now is what I'm wearing," Mr. Reeves said,
gesturing at a maroon pullover that identified him as an employee of Huntleigh
USA, a company that provides security services at the airport.

But getting rehired by the federal government -- at annual wages that could be
around $35,000, or nearly twice what many people in the industry make now -- is
by no means guaranteed for Mr. Reeves or anyone else. And for many other workers
here and around the country, especially immigrants without United States
citizenship who will now be automatically disqualified, reaction to Congress's
action was muted.

"I hope I can get some other job if I lose this one," said one woman, from Costa
Rica, who started as a checkpoint monitor at Seattle-Tacoma, stationed at the
exits to make sure no one tried to come in that way.

"But it's not like this job pays so well. I think it's about the same as washing
dishes at a restaurant," added the woman, 32, who would not give her name
because she was afraid that the company would think she was criticizing it and
fire her.

In Los Angeles, union leaders who represent airport security workers said they
were aghast at the prospect that noncitizens would be barred from getting
federal jobs as screeners.

"It's ridiculous that someone can serve in the armed forces, fight in
Afghanistan, carry an M-16 rifle as part of the National Guard at LAX, but can't
keep their job as a screener," said Jono Shaffer, the Los Angeles-based director
of airport organizing for the Service Employees International Union.

"The idea that citizenship equals trustworthiness is just wrongheaded," Mr.
Shaffer added. "The people who bombed the Oklahoma City federal building were
U.S. citizens. They could have qualified to be screeners, but someone who's been
on the job for 17 years and who has a kid who may be a veteran, can't."

At other airports, employees interviewed after their shifts today said they were
optimistic about being rehired as federal screeners once the private companies
began to be phased out, which Congress envisions happening within a year. But
many concede that their qualifications were not extensive and that they might
not have any advantage in applying for federal employment.

"It all depends on if they want to keep the existing workers," said Brion
Jefferson, a screener at Denver International Airport. "If they want to switch
everybody out, I'd be concerned."

Mr. Jefferson said he started his job three days ago.

Bill Ryan, who also just finished his third day on the job at the Denver airport
and was waiting in line to pick up his first paycheck, was also optimistic about
being hired as a federal screener. But more important, Mr. Ryan said, he
believed federal supervision would be safer for the flying public.

"The federal government has a lot more resources than the private companies," he
explained.

One of those companies, Argenbright Security Inc., was told on Thursday by
Massachusetts officials to leave Logan International Airport in Boston within 10
days because of concerns about security lapses there.

One of the latest incidents occurred earlier this week when an Argenbright guard
left a terminal door unguarded, prompting a complete sweep of a concourse that
delayed flights and forced about 400 Delta Air Lines passengers to go through
new security screening.

Officials with the agency that runs the airport want to replace Argenbright with
another company until security responsibilities are completely handed over to
the federal government, while the company vows to fight the agency's decision in
court.

The company's employees remained on the job at Logan today and, as is the case
at many other airports run by Argenbright and other companies, they were told
not to speak to reporters.

One screener, who gave only his first name, John, said the job had become
increasingly difficult.

"The stress factor right now is exceedingly high," he said. "It's not a nice
environment to be around."

Still, he said, many Argenbright employees hope to stay in the airport in other
security jobs, in the hope of eventually becoming federal employees.

"Some of us have a shot at the federal aspect," John said. "They are good
screeners. They know what to detect."

The majority, he said, do not speak English fluently, which might be a bar to
federal employment. "They may be gone; we may all be gone," he said.

In Seattle, workers were clearly nervous about discussing the bill, as
supervisors hovered nearby and reminded them of a Huntleigh policy that any
question from a reporter should be referred to a company spokesman. Two security
managers for the company were suspended this week after a security breach led to
an evacuation of all concourses and snarled flights for hours.

"It is a tough place to work," said one man on lunch break from a screening job,
looking around as he spoke and pleading not to have his name used. "I can't say
I'd be thrilled to go to work for the federal government, but it's got to be
better than this."

A Ukrainian immigrant at the Denver airport, who said he had screened passengers
and bags there for eight months, also wondered whether the life of a screener
would ever get better.

"It was easy to get this job because the company is always hiring, the door is
always open," said the man, who is not a United States citizen. "But this job is
too much of a hassle. The management is really bad, but you never know if the
government is going to be better."

At Los Angeles International Airport, Jose Platero, a 26-year-old native of El
Salvador who is not a United States citizen, was pessimistic about his chances
of getting rehired as a screener once the government took over the task.

"I think I would really like to," Mr. Platero said. "A resident like me can do
the same work as a citizen. We can work at the same level. It should not make
much difference to what we do."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A screener used a metal detector yesterday to check a Delta Air
Lines passenger at Logan International Airport in Boston. (Evan Richman for The
New York Times); Security screeners at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport
yesterday watched pieces of luggage pass through an X-ray machine. (Larry Davis
for The New York Times); Jose Platero, a screener at Los Angeles International
Airport, gave directions yesterday to Amber Gordon, a passenger. Mr. Platero is
pessimistic about his chances of being rehired by the government. (Kim Kulish
Saba for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 21, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Homeland Dept.: Don't Fold In I.N.S.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 180 words


To the Editor:

Re "Coherent Homeland Security" (editorial, July 19):

You call for the transfer of the functions of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to the proposed Department of Homeland Security.

Such a transfer would only exacerbate the inefficiencies that plague the agency
and stigmatize immigrants.

The overwhelming majority of newcomers to our land are not terrorists and
contribute significantly to our cultural, economic and social fabric.

As the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops has testified, a preferable approach
would be to create a restructured I.N.S. within the Justice Department and
transfer certain terrorist-related immigration functions, border and port
enforcement, investigatory and intelligence powers, and antiterrorism
enforcement responsibilities to the new department.

Combined with new technology, training and information-sharing, this formula
would best preserve our national security and our identity as a country of
immigrants.

J. KEVIN APPLEBY
Dir., Migration and Refugee Policy
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops
Washington, July 19, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 23, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After 9/11, Searching For Way to Stay in U.S.

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 837 words


The newlyweds were flying to New York City, and as the plane descended out of
the clouds Ganesh Ladkat pointed to the two massive towers in Lower Manhattan.
He told his wife, Sonia Gawas, that he would work there one day. And so he did.

Mr. Ladkat, a computer technician for Cantor Fitzgerald who held a skilled
worker's visa, was at work in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. He died there.

And Ms. Gawas's grief multiplies. Because she holds a visa that is tied to her
now-deceased husband's employment, she lost the privilege of living in the
United States when he was killed. Along with hundreds of other spouses and
children of those killed on Sept. 11, she is searching for ways to stay.

"I still want to continue staying here to fulfill our dreams together," Ms.
Gawas said, "but maybe I'll be forced to leave."

Two dozen families have approached the office of Senator Jon S. Corzine,
Democrat of New Jersey, seeking help with staying in the country. Normally,
dependent visa holders whose spouses are killed can be deported. But the trade
center attack, the great exception for so many areas of life, may make things
different here, too.

In December, Mr. Corzine introduced a bill that would grant citizenship to the
spouses and children of legal immigrants killed on Sept. 11.

"They lost their lives because of an attack on our nation, and that's a pretty
heavy sacrifice and burden for those families to suffer," Mr. Corzine said. "I
think they should have access to American citizenship."

Mr. Corzine estimates that there are 200 to 800 people who could be affected by
his bill. These dependent visa holders have been allowed to stay since October,
when President Bush signed into law the U.S.A. Patriot Act, which allows
dependents of foreigners killed on Sept. 11 to remain in the United States until
their visas expire or until Sept. 10, 2002, whichever is later.

For now, the federal government is taking a lenient approach to enforcement.
"There is a great deal of support and sympathy for relatives of 9/11 victims,"
said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Washington. "We're going to give them every avenue, legal and legislative,
that might be available to them. No one need be concerned that the expiration
date of any provision of the Patriot Act will signal any immediate action by
I.N.S."

Under existing law, Ms. Gawas's future in America could be limited. An
immigration official explained that because Mr. Ladkat and others arrived as
temporary workers, there was no legal basis for their next of kin to be
reclassified as immigrants.

"They were admitted to the country on an agreement that at some point in the
future they would leave," said the official, who feared appearing callous toward
Sept. 11 family members and spoke on the condition of anonymity.

"But," the official continued, "members of Congress might feel it reasonable
that they could stay. They may feel that because they are victims, because their
cases deserve special attention, they warrant a special law."

Mr. Corzine's bill, which is being considered by the Judiciary Committee, was
co-signed by Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Robert G.
Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, but has otherwise stagnated in the Senate.

"While this is important to a narrow group of folks, there have been a host of
issues to deal with," Mr. Corzine said. "People wanted other immigration issues
resolved first. Every time I approached my colleagues, they were more interested
in border security and I.N.S. restructuring."

If the bill fails, current law offers several ways for foreign Sept. 11 kin to
stay. "Temporary visa holders who want to remain in the country over the long
term need to find an independent visa," said Gary N. Merson, government affairs
counsel for Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy, an immigration law firm working
for Cantor Fitzgerald to help its immigrant families. "There are a handful of
ways to do this."

This would mean finding an employer who would sponsor a work visa, seeking
political asylum or refugee status, applying for a small so-called diversity
visa lottery, or, as Mr. Merson put it, "obtaining the requisite family
relationship" -- in other words, marrying an American citizen or legal resident.

Ms. Gawas, whose visa expires in April 2004, said with a shy smile that she
would not consider getting married again. "I still consider that I'm his wife,"
she said. "I don't see that I'll be able to give someone else the place that
Ganesh had in my life."

Ms. Gawas, who like her husband was trained in India as a computer technician,
said that she was attending Rutgers University on a scholarship to try to
improve her employment opportunities here. She does not want to return to India,
where she said widows are shunned, forbidden to remarry and believed to be
cursed.

"I lost my best friend of six years, my husband for nine months," she said. "I
lost the privilege of being a mother. There's enough suffering. I don't want
anything added to it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sonia Gawas at home before the shrine for her husband, Ganesh
Ladkat, center, who was killed in the attack on the World Trade Center on Sept.
11. At left is a picture of Alok Agarwal, who was also killed. (Keith Meyers/The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 21, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Central Islip: Judge Accused Of Green-Card Scheme

BYLINE:  By Stacy Albin (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 88 words


A retired Long Island judge has been accused of participating in sham marriages
in a scheme to get immigrants green cards for permanent residency. The retired
judge, Lawrence J. Goldstein, 77, pleaded not guilty on Monday to a charge of
establishing a business to violate immigration laws. Mr. Goldstein is accused of
conducting the weddings in his home in Hempstead and charging $75 for each one.
His lawyer, Ronald J. Bekoff, said Mr. Goldstein "lacked any criminal intent to
obtain any criminal goals."   Stacy Albin (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: SAFETY AND LIBERTY;
Senate Democrat Opposes White House's Antiterrorism Plan and Proposes
Alternative

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS and PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 891 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19


The Democratic chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee said today that he
opposed the Bush administration's proposals to broaden the government's powers
to detain and deport immigrants suspected of terrorism and offered a separate
package of counterterrorism legislation.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the panel's chairman, said he still hoped
to work with the administration to develop bipartisan legislation to combat
terrorism after last week's attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"We probably agree on more than we disagree on," he said in an interview after
meeting today with Attorney General John Ashcroft.

But his comments left open the possibility of a conflict between the White House
and members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, who have warned that parts
of the administration's proposal could erode basic constitutional rights.

And Mr. Leahy made clear that he would not be rushed, noting that Congress took
almost two months to pass antiterrorism legislation in response to the Oklahoma
City bombing in 1995. "We do not want the terrorists to win by having basic
protections taken away from us," he said.

On several issues, there seemed to be widespread agreement between the
administration and the Senate's Democratic leaders.

Mr. Leahy's draft proposal includes several items contained in the bill
circulated today by the Justice Department, including a major expansion of the
government's ability to carry out electronic surveillance of terrorism suspects.

Mr. Leahy and the Justice Department have recommended that law enforcement
officials be given broader authority for wiretapsthat permit surveillance of
suspects as they move from telephone to telephone, as opposed to surveillance of
a specific telephone.

But Mr. Leahy singled out the administration's immigration provisions as
especially troublesome. The White House has proposed that authorities be able to
detain or deport immigrants who are suspected of terrorism without presenting
any evidence in court.

On Tuesday, the Justice Department said it had rewritten federal regulations to
double the length of time that the government may detain immigrants without
charging them -- to 48 hours from 24 hours -- and to permit indefinite detention
in a national emergency. President Bush declared such an emergency last week.

"On the immigration question, if we change from 24 to 48 hours before deciding
whether to charge someone, well, I can understand that," Mr. Leahy said. "But I
don't think we need to talk about indefinite detention."

He said that it could be akin to the abrogation of the rights of
Japanese-Americans during World War II if law enforcement authorities were
allowed to "take some Arab-looking person and hold him for as long as they want
while they investigate."

He spoke as civil liberties and privacy groups stepped up their criticism of the
administration's legislative package.

Since last week, Democratic and Republican lawmakers have been eager to
demonstrate their resolve to pass legislation that would help prevent terrorist
attacks.

But a growing alliance of lawmakers and advocacy groups -- liberal and
conservative -- has questioned whether the government is moving too quickly on
legislation that would place new limits on civil liberties and privacy rights in
the name of combating terrorism.

The American Civil Liberties Union expressed alarm today at the Justice
Department's proposals on immigration, especially its request that the attorney
general be authorized to detain and deport immigrants without presenting any
evidence to a court.

The A.C.L.U. suggested that the provision would allow for serious abuses of
immigrants who entered the United States legally and became swept up in a large
counterterrorism investigation.

"There would be no hearing whatsoever and no opportunity to contest the attorney
general's decision and no meaningful criteria for him to follow in making the
decision," the A.C.L.U. said in a statement today. "We remain concerned that the
administration still appears to want to jettison even the most basic judicial
oversight in the areas of wiretapping and immigration."

Representative Bob Barr, a conservative Georgia Republican, said he had serious
reservations about the administration's proposal to expand the ability of law
enforcement agents to monitor the Internet and other types of electronic
communication.

Mr. Barr said he was also concerned about the administration's demand for quick
passage of its legislative package. "If we are faced with a true emergency, the
government has plenty of authority to do what needs to be done," he said.

Prospects for the administration's legislative package in the House were not
clear. The Republican chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, and the ranking Democrat, Representative John
Conyers Jr. of Michigan, pledged to move quickly on the package. But in
statements, they did not directly endorse the Bush proposals.

"I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee on this
most important proposal in the days and weeks to come," Representative Conyers
said. But he cautioned that "as we fight terrorism, we must ensure that we do
not become the enemy ourselves -- it is essential that we do not let this
horrendous act destroy our fundamental freedoms."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, right, spoke yesterday with
Attorney General John Ashcroft about antiterrorism legislation. (Susana Raab for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: SAFETY AND LIBERTY;
Groups Fault Plan to Listen, Search and Seize

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON and NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 992 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20


The Bush administration's plan to rewrite immigration and surveillance laws
after last week's terrorist attacks drew new criticism today from both the left
and the right after a detailed analysis showed the plan would also create
sweeping federal powers to gather evidence and share it within the government.

Early drafts of the plan showed that the Justice Department wanted broad new
wiretapping authority and the power to deport immigrants suspected of terrorism
without any court review of the evidence.

The administration's full legislative package, which was sent to Congress on
Wednesday, went further. It also sought authority for the government to seize
evidence from terrorism suspects, including DNA samples, to seize the assets of
foreign governments suspected of aiding terrorists and to gain wider access to
educational records and tax returns.

After analyzing the dozens of specific proposals overnight, many lawmakers and
privacy and civil liberties groups said today that they were alarmed by the
scope of the proposed legislation.

More than 150 groups across the political spectrum, from the American Civil
Liberties Union on the left to the Gun Owners of America and the Rutherford
Institute on the right, joined in a statement calling on Congress to avoid hasty
action on antiterrorism legislation in response to the attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"We should resist the temptation to enact proposals in the mistaken belief that
anything that may be called antiterrorist will necessarily provide greater
security," the statement said. "We should applaud our political leaders in the
days ahead who have the courage to say that our freedoms should not be limited."

The Justice Department has defended the proposals, insisting that they uphold
basic constitutional freedoms while providing important new tools to the
government in dealing with the threat of further, even more deadly terrorist
attacks.

The department suggested today, however, that it was open to negotiations with
lawmakers over the package. Asked about complaints that some proposals may
abrogate civil liberties, Mindy Tucker, the department's spokeswoman, said
today, "Nobody argues that these concerns shouldn't be taken seriously."

Other legal experts and scholars suggested that the administration was acting
responsibly in seeking broader law enforcement powers and that concerns about
civil liberties were largely misguided in the emergency created by last week's
attacks.

"The notion that the government is the oppressor and is just trying to use this
occasion to deprive citizens of our liberties is distressing and uninformed,"
said Amitai Etzioni, a political scientist at George Washington University.
"Even if the only thing you are concerned about is our rights, who are you going
to look to in order to protect our rights if not the government?"

The Bush administration's proposals would allow law enforcement agents to do the
following:

*Obtain voice-mail messages by warrant rather than go through the more
cumbersome procedure of applying to a court for wiretap authority.

*Use information collected by foreign governments against American citizens even
if the information was obtained by techniques that would have violated the
Fourth Amendment's prohibition against illegal searches and seizures.

*Compel Internet service providers to turn over credit card information on
suspected terrorists through use of a subpoena, rather than go through the
process of obtaining a court order.

*More freely exchange evidence with intelligence agencies, including information
obtained by wiretaps.

*Compel suspects to give DNA samples in a wider variety of terrorism
investigations.

*Place wiretaps in national security investigations for one year without needing
additional court approval, up from the current 90-day period. Unlike wiretaps in
criminal cases, the subjects of national security wiretaps need never be
informed that they had once been under surveillance.

The proposal would also rewrite laws to place new limits on the storage of
biological agents that could be used as terrorist weapons. Current law prohibits
possession of substances specifically "for use as a weapon." Under the rewritten
law, storage of the agents would be barred for "any purpose other than a
prophylactic, protective or peaceful purpose."

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, who is chairman of the Judiciary
Committee and a leading critic of parts of the administration's proposal, said
today that he remained hopeful that the administration would modify its proposal
and avoid a conflict.

Mr. Leahy, who has prepared an alternative package of antiterrorism legislation,
said through a spokesman that senior staff aides from the committee and the
Justice Department met through the day in an effort to reach a bipartisan
compromise.

The groups that joined today in pleading against rash action on new
antiterrorism laws included many organizations that would normally have nothing
in common.

At a news conference, the coalition released a petition calling on the
administration "to consider proposals calmly and deliberately with a
determination not to erode the liberties and freedoms that are at the core of
the American way of life."

The groups signing the petition include People for the American Way, Americans
for Tax Reform, Amnesty International, Common Cause, the American Muslim
Council, the Eagle Forum, the Free Congress Foundation, the National Black
Police Association, Human Rights Watch, the Leadership Conference on Civil
Rights and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.

Grover Norquist, a staunch conservative who is president of Americans for Tax
Reform, said he had joined the coalition with some of his traditional liberal
adversaries because he feared Congress was moving too quickly. Mr. Norquist said
he had sent a letter to every member of Congress, pleading with each not to vote
"for legislation you have not actually read."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE LAWMAKERS;
Ashcroft, Seeking Broad Powers, Says Congress Must Act Quickly

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30


Attorney General John Ashcroft implored lawmakers today to approve the Bush
administration's antiterrorism package by next week, warning: "Talk will not
prevent terrorism. We need to have action by the Congress."

Facing bipartisan resistance to proposals like increased electronic surveillance
powers and the indefinite detention of immigrants considered national security
threats, Mr. Ashcroft argued that such powers were needed to disrupt terrorist
activity. "We need the tools to prevent terrorism," he said in an appearance on
the CBS News program "Face the Nation."

In fact, over the last decade there has often been more talk than action on
antiterrorism initiatives, some nearly identical to those proposed by the Bush
administration in response to the devastation in New York and at the Pentagon on
Sept. 11.

Since the first attack on the World Trade Center, in 1993, Congress has received
a raft of proposals for expanded electronic surveillance, tighter airport
security, tougher money-laundering laws, a counterterrorism czar, increased
intelligence sharing and stepped-up monitoring of foreign students.

Some legislation passed, including measures to increase criminal penalties for
acts of terrorism, crack down on immigration violators and substantially
increase federal money for investigating terrorism and protecting government
buildings and computer networks.

But many other proposals died, were weakened or were never effectively put in
effect. Airlines fought some tighter security regulations on the ground that
they would cost too much. Banks opposed a crackdown on overseas money
laundering. Computer companies succeeded in weakening efforts to restrict
overseas sales of software that encrypts data. Educational institutions resisted
the monitoring of foreign students.

And the National Rifle Association and civil liberties groups repeatedly worked
together to defeat proposals to expand federal authority for wiretapping and
other surveillance.

As he struggled last year to pass a broad antiterrorism bill, Senator Jon Kyl,
an Arizona Republican, delivered a warning that now sounds prophetic: that after
another World Trade Center bombing "everybody will be excited about getting
something done, but the time to get excited is now." Although Mr. Kyl's bill
passed the Senate after the attack on the destroyer Cole last October, the
legislation died in the House.

There is no guarantee that any of the legislation before Congress would have
stopped the devastating Sept. 11 attacks or prevented the largest intelligence
failure since Pearl Harbor. In fact, many lawmakers still debate whether a
number of the measures are warranted, would be effective or are constitutional.

"Up to now there's really been no constituency to move with any of this," said
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who co-sponsored Mr. Kyl's
legislation. "There was no critical mass to move a bill, and I don't think
anybody believed the depth to which these terrorists would go."

Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the senior Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said today on "Face the Nation," "I don't think we can delay it any
longer." But lawmakers are still fighting over the details of the package.

Congress has been warned in the past. Three national commissions reported that
the nation and its intelligence, law enforcement and health care agencies were
ill prepared to deal with domestic terrorist strikes.

When the National Commission on Terrorism made a sweeping series of antiterror
recommendations last year, L. Paul Bremer, the commission's chairman, said: "We
think there's a chance terrorists will try to stage a catastrophic event in the
United States in the future. We're talking about something which will have tens
of thousands of deaths."

But even as experts said that a growing terrorist threat required more powers
and fewer constraints on government agencies, the suspicion of government itself
was on the rise. Even President Bill Clinton proclaimed that "the era of big
government" had come to an end.

And in a sign of the antigovernment sensibilities of the Republicans who took
control of Congress in 1994, Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican who has since
left Congress, said during a House debate on antiterrorism legislation that
while terrorism posed a severe threat, "There is a far greater fear in this
country, and that is the fear of our own government."

Legislative attention to terrorism was episodic, rising in response to attacks
like the 1993 trade center bombing. "What we lacked after 1993 was resolve as a
nation," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who proposed
sweeping antiterrorist legislation two weeks after that deadly explosion.

The antiterror bill President Clinton finally signed in 1996, a year after the
Oklahoma City bombing, included new counterterrorism financing for the F.B.I,
new provisions to turn immigrants away from the borders, a streamlined
deportation process and a special deportation court empowered to use secret
evidence.

But it did not include the primary enforcement tools the president had sought --
including authority for federal agents to use wiretaps that follow a person
instead of a phone, and for chemical identifiers in explosives and black powder.

Those measures were stripped in the House by a coalition of liberals, who
remembered the domestic spying on civil rights groups and Vietnam War
protesters, and conservatives, who said the deaths in Ruby Ridge, Idaho, and at
the Branch Davidian complex near Waco, Tex., showed the government could not be
trusted. The National Rifle Association lobbied hard against those provisions,
as did civil rights groups.

The civil rights groups also opposed similar efforts in later years to allow law
enforcement to get a single court order to trace suspect telephone or computer
communications across multiple networks or phone companies. They argued that the
threshold standard for obtaining such orders was too loose.

James X. Dempsey, deputy director of the Center for Democracy and Technology, a
nonprofit civil liberties group, said in an interview: "Our attitude was, there
is a logic to this request. But given how the communications networks have
grown, into e-mail, cellphones, voice mail, pagers, regular phones, other
Internet applications, the idea that you can go from service provider to service
provider without a judge ever actually asking what leads you to believe there's
criminal conduct, we said that was too much."

Lobbying pressure also weakened efforts to place controls on the sensitive
software used to keep computer data and telephone communications secret. For
years, at least since coded files were found on the laptop computer of Ramzi
Ahmed Yousef, the mastermind of the 1993 trade center bombing, Louis J. Freeh,
the former director of the F.B.I., and Representative Porter J. Goss of Florida,
the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, urged tight restrictions on
exports of so-called encryption software on the grounds that it could fall into
terrorist hands and complicate law enforcement. But they confronted a wall of
opposition from the computer industry.

Computer industry lobbyists built Congressional support for lifting such
restrictions. The industry, along with privacy advocates, argued that the pace
of technology had outstripped government's ability to control it, and that
American industry would suffer unfairly without access to foreign markets.

Last year, the Clinton administration issued Commerce Department regulations
allowing export of such programs after a one-time review by the Defense
Department, except to countries on the State Department's list of terrorist
states. Sales to Europe do not require advance review.

Over time Congress doubled spending on counterterrorism programs, to about $12
billion this year. After the embassy bombings in Africa in 1998, Congress year
by year gave Mr. Clinton the new money he wanted for embassy security. But it
refused his request for a guaranteed future stream of more than $3 billion for
security through 2005.

That led Senator Joseph R. Biden, a Delaware Democrat, to warn that Congress
risked repeating what it had done in the mid-1980's, after car bombings at
embassies in Kuwait and Lebanon, when a government commission called for major
new spending on embassy security. At first, Mr. Biden said, Congress responded
with significant money, "but as the years passed, security became a second-order
priority."

Over the last three years, three more commissions have made recommendations to
Congress, including lifting restrictions on the C.I.A.'s use of unsavory
infiltrators for counterterrorism, allowing the armed forces to lead the
response to any major attack on American soil, and creating a cabinet-level
homeland security agency. Mr. Bush recently named Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania
to head such an agency.

Similar calls for such a high-ranking coordinator have been sounded repeatedly,
but have died because of longstanding rivalries among competing law enforcement
agencies.

"Unfortunately you have these big bureaucracies that have a lot of history,
pride and political influence that resist change, particularly change that they
perceive as a loss of their power and influence," said Senator Bob Graham,
Democrat of Florida, the chairman of the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence. "Up until Sept. 11, they had been strong enough to prevent efforts
at restructuring the federal government."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft, left, and Senator Orrin G. Hatch
yesterday before being interviewed on CBS. ("Face the Nation")(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 2, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: CONGRESS;
NEGOTIATORS BACK SCALED-DOWN BILL TO BATTLE TERROR

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS and ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1


Democratic and Republican negotiators in the House reached agreement today on a
bill that would give law enforcement officials expanded authority to wiretap
suspected terrorists, share intelligence information about them and monitor
their Internet communications.

But the compromise bill also makes the wiretap authority temporary and omits or
scales back some of the measures the Bush administration sought, notably the
authority to detain immigrants suspected of terrorism indefinitely without
charges. The administration had been pressing for far more extensive changes in
the law and had hoped its proposals would move with little debate through a
Congress eager to respond to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon.

The proposal for indefinite detention of immigrant suspects engendered the
greatest opposition from civil libertarians both inside and outside Congress.
Under the plan agreed to this evening by Representative F. James Sensenbrenner
Jr., the Wisconsin Republican who is the chairman of the Judiciary Committee,
and Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the committee's ranking
Democrat, the government could detain an immigrant suspected of terrorism for
seven days without bringing charges.

The two members of Congress and their staffs had worked over the last several
days to forge a compromise after several committee members last week, both
Democrats and Republicans, complained quietly but insistently that the
administration's legislative package expanded the government's powers at the
expense of long-established civil liberties.

John P. Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, said Mr. Hastert
hoped that the House would soon act on the proposed compromise. Richard A.
Gephardt, the Democratic leader in the House, was in New York today viewing the
damage to Lower Manhattan and had not yet reviewed the final bill. But his
spokesman, Erik Smith, said Mr. Gephardt had great confidence in Mr. Conyers's
ability to negotiate a compromise.

A senior Bush administration official tonight said that the House compromise
proposal was encouraging because it demonstrated bipartisan support for much of
the White House's wish list. But the official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity, also said some of the elements were troubling, especially a "sunset"
feature that would have the expanded wiretap powers expire in two years unless
explicitly renewed by Congress.

Senior Congressional aides said today that the expiration feature was crucial
for a bipartisan consensus. One aide said that it was easier for some members to
accept potential infringements on civil liberties if they were temporary.

Further complicating the administration's hope to quickly enact broad changes in
criminal law, the Senate is moving along a separate track on its own
antiterrorism legislation; that bill is not expected to be ready for a floor
vote for at least two weeks. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who
is the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has made it plain he will not be
rushed into accepting many of the administration's proposals.

At the same time Congress is deliberating changes in the antiterrorism laws, its
members are moving swiftly to enact other measures in response to the attacks.
Support is building in Congress for proposals to permit military personnel to
assist in patrolling the nation's borders, to triple the number of agents on the
Canadian border, to limit student visas, and to spend emergency funds for
additional moves to tighten immigration rules and procedures.

Under the antiterrorism bill that will be formally introduced in the House on
Tuesday and could be voted on as early as next week, a foreigner could be
detained for up to seven days before being charged if the authorities had
"reasonable grounds" for suspecting that person of terrorism. The person
detained could also seek a review of that determination in the federal trial
court in Washington. The administration had sought a lesser threshold for
detention, that of the authorities having "reason to believe" the person was
involved in terrorism, a designation that was not designed to be subject to
court review.

The bill would also allow only the attorney general or the commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to deem that there were reasonable
grounds to label an individual a suspected terrorist.

Also under the bill, officials would be able to obtain authority to wiretap an
individual suspected of terrorism, not just a specific telephone as they must do
now. Law enforcement officials have complained that the wiretap laws, written
when all telephones were wired, do not provide for terrorists using and
discarding cellphones.

The bill would also put e-mail communications on a level with telephone
communications. It would allow the authorities to use an easily obtainable
subpoena to get from Internet service providers records of to whom and when
e-mail messages was sent or received by a suspect. Currently, the authorities
can obtain by subpoena the equivalent, called a pen register, from the telephone
company, which discloses the time and destination of phone calls.

The actual phone conversations cannot be obtained by authorities without a
search warrant, which requires a demonstration to a judge of probable cause that
a crime has been committed; the same is true for e-mail messages. The
administration had sought wider authority to monitor e-mail correspondence.

The House negotiators dropped an administration request that schools be required
to disclose information about foreign students to investigators who said they
had a reasonable need to obtain it. The compromise bill also omitted a provision
that would have allowed officials to use evidence gathered abroad even if it was
obtained by methods considered unconstitutional in the United States.

In devising a compromise, Congressional officials said, the negotiators were
also concerned that the definition of terrorism in the administration proposal
was too broad and would allow the authorities to treat crimes more harshly by
deeming them acts of terrorism. As a result, the bill lists many crimes like
hijacking and destruction of government property as qualifying as terrorist
actions only if they were committed with a motive to influence or change the
government.

The bill also narrows the definition of computer crimes that could be deemed
potential terrorist acts. Negotiators said the administration's version would
have given wide latitude to officials to treat all computer hacking incidents as
terrorism. The bill now requires that the hacking be part of an effort to gain
access to national security information, cause damage to a secure computer or
obtain information from a secure computer system by threaten to damage that
system.

The bill would prohibit intelligence officials from sharing information they
obtained with anyone but law enforcement authorities in the federal government.

Representative Bob Barr, a conservative Georgia Republican, said tonight that he
had not yet dropped his opposition to the legislation because he still had
serious concerns. Mr. Barr, a former federal prosecutor, has described the
legislative efforts as giving too much power to law enforcement authorities.

The House bill has been given the title "Provide Appropriate Tools Required to
Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001" to allow it to be called by an
acronym, the Patriot Act of 2001.

On the other side of the Capitol, lawmakers drafting the antiterrorism bill
there have tentatively agreed on a plan to triple the number of immigration
inspectors on the Canadian border. The agency's own analysis concludes that the
current contingent of 300 Border Patrol agents is inadequate for the 5,500-mile
boundary.

Many lawmakers support a budget increase for American embassies and consulates,
so they can more thoroughly investigate the background of people applying for
visas. Such investigations now are often perfunctory.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, has proposed major changes in
the foreign student visa program, including a six-month moratorium on issuing
new visas, comprehensive background checks on all foreign students and new
requirements for schools to verify students' compliance with the terms of their
visas.

Colleges and vocational schools are vehemently opposed to her proposal, saying
it would disrupt their operations without significantly reducing the risk of
terrorism.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin heads the
House Judiciary Committee. (Reuters)(pg. B7) Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: Agreement on an
Antiterrorism Bill"Senior members of the House Judiciary Committee reached a
tentative agreement on antiterrorism legislation. The agreement would grant the
Bush administration some, but not all, of the expanded powers it had requested.
The Senate Judiciary Committee is working on its own version of the bill.
DETENTION OF ILLEGAL ALIENS -- Immigration officials would be able to detain
suspected terrorists up to seven days before charging them with a crime or a
violation of immigration law. The administration had asked to be able to detain
suspected terrorists indefinitely. ROVING WIRETAPS -- Law enforcement officials
would be able to obtain a court order to wiretap the telephone of a specific
suspect rather than just a specific telephone, eliminating the need to get new
wiretap authority each time a suspect changes telephones. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
-- For the most serious terrorist offenses, there would no longer be a statute
of limitations. Currently, the statute of limitations for many terrorist
offenses is five to eight years. ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE -- Law enforcement
officials would be able to get the addresses of e-mail messages sent and
received by suspected terrorists without a search warrant, as they can now
obtain telephone numbers called by suspects without a search warrant. FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE -- Law enforcement officials seeking a court order for electronic
surveillance of terrorists overseas would have to show that the collection of
foreign intelligence information was "a significant purpose" of the
investigation. Currently, they must show that it is the "sole or primary
purpose" of the investigation. The Bush administration had favored a less
rigorous standard. (pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: NOTEBOOKS;
More Eyes Toward Canada

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 284 words


The number of federal agents patrolling the northern border of the United States
would triple to 7,689 from 2,563 under Attorney General John Ashcroft's
antiterrorism legislation, which was drafted after the Sept. 11 attacks and is
expected to pass in Congress this week.

Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said the provision would provide $609
million for new Customs, Border Patrol and Immigration and Naturalization
Service personnel to patrol along the world's longest nonmilitarized boundary,
between the United States and Canada.

It would also provide $100 million for things like biometric surveillance
systems, and $2 million for an improved fingerprinting system.

Senator Schumer said the increase struck a balance between tightened security
and the free flow of an estimated $1.4 billion in daily cross-border business
between the two nations.

"The northern border has been like a sieve and if you are a bad, smart person,
and want to come into the United States, you know that you should go north and
not south," Senator Schumer said.

New York shares about 400 miles of border with Canada. Three upstate cities,
Buffalo, Champlain and Alexandria Bay, are respectively the second, fourth and
10th busiest land border crossings in the country, an aide to Senator Schumer
said.

The Canadian border is not unknown to terrorists. Participants in the World
Trade Center bombing eight years ago appeared to have used Canadian immigration
papers to gain access to the United States. Ahmed Ressam, who was arrested by
United States customs officials in December 1999 with a carload of explosives
and convicted, had tried to enter Washington State by a ferry from Victoria,
British Columbia.
   AL BAKER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE LEGISLATION;
ANTITERRORISM BILL PASSES; U.S. GETS EXPANDED POWERS

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25


The Senate passed sweeping antiterrorism legislation today, sending President
Bush a measure that would expand the government's ability to conduct electronic
surveillance, detain immigrants without charges and penetrate money-laundering
banks.

The measure also permits officials to share grand jury information to thwart
terrorism and relaxes the conditions under which judges may authorize
intelligence wiretaps.

The president's deputy press secretary, Claire Buchan, said, "The president is
pleased that the Congress has acted quickly to provide additional tools in
fighting the war on terrorism, and he looks forward to signing the bill into law
tomorrow."

Attorney General John Ashcroft said that within hours of President Bush's
signature he would distribute new directives to all federal prosecutors and
F.B.I. agents telling them how to use the law. One step to be taken right away,
senior law enforcement officials said, is to seek subpoenas to obtain
information on computers used by any terrorist suspects.

The Senate vote was 98 to 1, after a 356-to-66 vote in the House on Wednesday.
Only Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, voted against the bill,
arguing that it would allow unconstitutional searches and punish individuals for
vague associations with possible terrorists.

The bill provides most of the additional powers Mr. Ashcroft sought after the
suicide attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

But it added the money-laundering measures after a push by Senator Paul S.
Sarbanes, the Maryland Democrat who is chairman of the Banking Committee. And
the bill curtailed some of the tools Mr. Ashcroft sought, reflecting concerns in
both parties and houses that the administration proposal went too far.

For example, it denied the administration the power to detain indefinitely and
without charges immigrants suspected of involvement in terrorism. The bill does
expand the limit to seven days of detention, from two days, though under some
circumstances that could be repeatedly extended by six-month periods.

The bill denied the administration the power to use foreign wiretaps that would
have been illegal in the United States. It also provides that authority for
expanded surveillance of computers and telephones will expire after four years.
The administration wanted permanent authority.

Senator Feingold, while praising his colleagues for denying Mr. Ashcroft some of
the powers he sought, complained of "relentless" pressure to move quickly,
"without deliberation or debate." He attacked the bill for enabling the
government to obtain the business or medical records of anyone "who might have
sat on an airplane" with a terrorism suspect.  He also objected to the bill's
liberal approval of intelligence wiretaps even if intelligence gathering is only
a minor purpose of the tap. Such wiretaps are often issued in secrecy and under
much looser standards than those required for wiretaps in criminal cases.

"Congress will fulfill its duty only when it protects both the American people
and the freedoms at the foundation of American society," he said.

But he was the lone dissenter. One senator, Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of
Louisiana, did not vote.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who leads the Judiciary
Committee, said Mr. Ashcroft had asked that the legislation be passed in two
days. Instead, Mr. Leahy said: "We took the time to look at it, and we took the
time to read it. And we took time to remove those parts that were
unconstitutional and those parts that would have actually hurt the rights of all
Americans."

Mr. Leahy praised the addition of provisions to cope with money laundering,
saying he had learned as a state prosecutor of the need to "follow the money."

The banking measures include allowing the secretary of the Treasury to impose
sanctions -- up to cutting off all dealings with United States financial
institutions -- on banks in a nation whose bank secrecy laws deny information to
the Federal Bureau of Investigation or other agencies. Another provision would
require foreign banks maintaining correspondent accounts in United States banks
to designate someone here to receive subpoenas related to those accounts and
their depositors.

If those subpoenas were not answered, the accounts could be ordered closed.

Other major provisions include barring United States banks from doing business
with "shell banks" overseas that have no physical facilities and are not part of
a regulated banking system, and empowering the Treasury secretary to require
United States banks to exercise enhanced "due diligence" to find out who their
private banking depositors are if they come from nations that will not assist
United States officials.

Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who has worked for years on
money-laundering legislation, said, "Osama bin Laden has boasted that his
modern, new recruits know the, in his words, cracks in Western financial systems
like they know the lines in their own hands."

Mr. Levin said the bill would thwart efforts by "terrorists and other criminals
to use our own financial systems against us."

Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the Judiciary Committee's senior Republican,
singled out as a core provision of the bill the authority it gives law
enforcement and intelligence communities "to share information and cooperate
fully in protecting our nation against terrorist attacks." Mr. Hatch cited a
provision that allows grand jury information to be shared to block terrorist
attacks.

Intelligence files, obtained from wiretaps authorized by a special court that
oversees wiretaps related to activities of foreign governments and
organizations, will be turned over to criminal investigators for possible
prosecutions.

"We have intelligence files ready to go," one senior official said. "That will
allow us to make cases against some people and put them in jail."

Mr. Ashcroft said the use of national security wiretaps for criminal prosecution
would be valuable in breaking up terrorist organizations. He compared the
wiretaps to former Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy's prosecution of organized
crime figures for unrelated crimes.

"Attorney General Kennedy made no apologies for using all of the available
resources in the law to disrupt and dismantle organized crime networks," he
said. "One racketeer and his father were indicted for lying on a federal home
loan application."

Mr. Hatch cited another major provision of the bill, allowing roving wiretaps in
intelligence cases, as they already are in criminal cases.

A roving wiretap confers blanket authority to tap all phones a suspect uses,
instead of requiring separate applications for each telephone. "Terrorists," Mr.
Hatch said, "don't pay any attention to those antiquated laws. They just buy 10
cellphones, talk for a while, throw it out the window."

Mr. Hatch added: "We treat terrorism with kid gloves in the current criminal
code. This bill stops that."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Patrick J. Leahy, left, with an aide, Bruce Cohen, after
voting for the antiterror bill yesterday. The Senate voted 98 to 1 for the
measure. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Provisions
of the Antiterrorism Bill"Here are the main provisions of the antiterrorist
legislation passed yesterday by the Senate. President Bush is expected to sign
the measure into law today. INCREASING PENALTIES -- Criminal sentences for
committing acts of terrorism or for harboring or financing terrorists or
terrorist organizations are increased. Committing an act of terrorism against a
mass transit system becomes a federal crime. BIOTERRORISM PROVISION -- It
becomes illegal for people or groups to possess substances that can be used as
biological or chemical weapons for any purpose besides a "peaceful" one.
DETENTION -- The attorney general or the commissioner of immigration may now
certify an immigrant as being under suspicion of involvement in terrorism. Those
individuals may then be held for up to seven days for questioning, after which
they must be released if they are not charged with violations of the criminal or
immigration codes. ROVING WIRETAP -- Law enforcement officials may now obtain
from the special intelligence court the authority for roving wiretaps on a
person suspected of involvement in terrorism so that any telephone used by that
person may be monitored. Currently, officials need separate authorizations for
each phone used by the person. SEARCH WARRANTS -- Federal officials will be
allowed to obtain nationwide search warrants for terrorism investigations.
MONITORING OF COMPUTERS -- Officials will be allowed to subpoena the addresses
and times of e-mail messages sent by terrorism suspects. E-mail communications
will then be equal to those made by telephone, for which the authorities can use
a subpoena to obtain records of numbers called and the duration of calls.
SHARING OF INTELLIGENCE AND CRIMINAL INFORMATION -- Intelligence officials and
criminal justice officials will be allowed to share information on
investigations. MONEY LAUNDERING -- The Treasury Department will be able to
require banks to make much greater efforts to determine the sources of large
overseas private banking accounts. The Treasury will also be able to impose
sanctions on nations that refuse to provide information on depositors to
American investigators. Monitoring of American dealings by the nearly paperless
banks, or hawalas, of the Middle East will be allowed. SHELL BANKS -- American
banks will be barred from doing business with offshore shell banks, which have
no connection to any regulated banking industry. PURPOSE OF INVESTIGATIONS --
National security investigators will be able to obtain from a special
intelligence court the authority to wiretap suspects in terrorism cases if they
assert that foreign intelligence operations are a significant purpose of the
investigation. Currently, foreign intelligence has to be the only purpose of the
investigation to win such authorization. SUNSET PROVISIONS -- The bill's
sections expanding surveillance powers for tapping telephones and computers will
expire in four years, but any information learned from expanded wiretaps in
those four years will still be usable in court even if the case are brought
years later. DISCLOSURE SUITS -- The government may now be sued for leaks of
information gained through the new wiretapping and surveillance powers.(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION;
U.S. Says 3 Detainees May Be Tied to Hijackings

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON and DON VAN NATTA Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31


Attorney General John Ashcroft disclosed for the first time today that the
government had apprehended suspects who were believed to have had advance
knowledge of the Sept. 11 hijackings.

Mr. Ashcroft said that three Arab men who lived in Michigan had been found in
possession of airport diagrams, as well as false immigration forms, a fraudulent
American visa and a false alien identification card, and that they were
"suspected of having knowledge of the Sept. 11 attacks."

Other law enforcement officials have previously identified the three Arab
immigrants as suspects in the investigation of the September terrorist attacks,
although they say there has been no evidence to tie them directly to hijacking
plans. They said that in his comments today, Mr. Ashcroft was apparently
referring to a diagram for an airport in Amman, Jordan.

Mr. Ashcroft cited the detention of the three men as proof of the value of a
nationwide effort by federal law enforcement agencies to round up immigrants
with ties to terrorists.

The Justice Department also announced that as part of a broad immigration
crackdown, it had placed 46 groups on a list of suspected terrorist
organizations whose members or supporters would be barred from entering the
United States.

The move, required under an anti-terrorism bill signed into law by President
Bush last week, greatly expanded the number of groups whose members would, in
most cases, automatically be denied an American visa.

Among those added to the watch list were several Middle Eastern charitable
organizations and food companies that are accused of funneling money to Osama
bin Laden's Al Qaeda organization.

Mr. Ashcroft used a news conference to announce the list and offer details of
the larger immigration crackdown.

The three men in Michigan had previously been identified by law enforcement
officials as Arab immigrants who were believed to be part of Al Qaeda and whose
suspicious belongings had been found in a Detroit apartment last month.

On Monday, Mr. Ashcroft issued a public warning of imminent terrorist attacks
over the next week. He suggested today that the threat had not eased. "I have no
reason to indicate that there is any reason for people not to be as careful as
we have asked them to be," he said.

Other law enforcement officials have said that the warning resulted from
intelligence suggesting that bin Laden associates had been intercepted talking
about imminent terrorist attacks against the United States.

The government's roundup of immigrants has drawn criticism from civil liberties
groups and from some members of Congress. Today, Senator Russell D. Feingold of
Wisconsin and Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, both Democrats, wrote
to Mr. Ashcroft, asking him to list the identities of the detained immigrants
and the charges against them. The lawmakers asked that the Justice Department
"take all steps to ensure that their fundamental constitutional rights are
protected."

So far, more than 1,000 people have been taken into custody under the program,
many of them on relatively minor immigration charges.

"It is difficult for a person in jail or under detention to murder innocent
people or to aid or abet in terrorism," Mr. Ashcroft said. "As a nation of
immigrants, America welcomes friends from other countries who wish to visit, to
study, to work. But as Sept. 11 vividly illustrates, aliens also come to our
country with the intent to do great evil."

Mr. Ashcroft offered a detailed explanation of the government's "spitting on the
sidewalk" policy, in which immigrants suspected of terrorist ties are
apprehended for even minor, unrelated charges, just so long as they are taken
off the street.

"Aggressive detention of law breakers and material witnesses is vital to
preventing, disrupting or delaying new attacks," Mr. Ashcroft said, citing the
investigation of the three men in Michigan.

He did not name them, but other law enforcement officials have identified them
as Karim Koubriti, 23; Ahmen Hannan, 33; and Youssef Hmimssa.

On Sept. 17, F.B.I. agents raided a Detroit house at 2653 Norman Street, looking
to question Nabil al-Marabh, a suspected member of Al Qaeda. Mr. Marabh's name
was on an apartment in the building, but he was gone.

Instead, the F.B.I. found Mr. Koubriti, Mr. Hannan and a man named Farouk
Ali-Hamoud inside the apartment. According to an affidavit by Robert Pertuso,
the Detroit F.B.I. agent heading the investigation, the men told him that they
had lived in the apartment for only two weeks and that Mr. Marabh may have lived
there earlier.

Inside the apartment, agents found Skychefs Detroit Metropolitan Airport
identification badges for Mr. Hannan and Mr. Koubriti, who had both once worked
there as dishwashers, and a day planner with notations in Arabic. Mr. Pertuso
said some of the notes related to an American military base in Turkey. There
were also notes about "the American foreign minister" and Alia International
Airport in Amman.

Agents say Mr. Koubriti told them that the documents, which also included
passport pictures and false identifications, belonged to another man, Mr.
Hmimssa, who had previously lived in the apartment. Mr. Hmimssa was later
arrested in Iowa. He, Mr. Koubriti and Mr. Hannan were indicted on charges of
fraud and misuse of documents.

Mr. Marabh was arrested on Sept. 19 in a suburb of Chicago. Mr. Marabh, who is
now being held as a material witness in New York, had held a commercial driver's
license and permit to haul hazardous materials.

Although some senior law enforcement officials have said previously that they
believe the men are connected in some way to the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr.
Ashcroft's remarks today were the first time a senior government official had
acknowledged those suspicions publicly.

The addition of the 46 groups to the terrorism watch list will almost certainly
create new tension between the United States and Saudi Arabia, since several
prominent Saudis are affiliated with the charity groups operating in
Afghanistan, including the Wafa Humanitarian Organization and the Al Rashid
Trust.

Also added to the list were what the Justice Department identified as
Palestinian Hizballah, Turkish Hizballah, the Italian Red Brigades and suspected
terrorists groups from Ireland, Indonesia and Rwanda.

Until today, 28 groups were on the terrorism watch list, including the Palestine
Liberation Front, the Shining Path guerrillas of Peru, the Tamil Tigers of Sri
Lanka and Aum Shinrikyo cult in Japan. Now, there will be 74 groups.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft yesterday at a news conference.
(Associated Press)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE YEAR IN IDEAS: A TO Z.;
Return to Segregation

BYLINE:  By James Traub

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 96

LENGTH: 801 words


The release earlier this year of residential data from the 2000 census led to
the conclusion that assimilation isn't working the way it used to. Though
blacks, Hispanics, Asians and other nonwhite groups now constitute 31 percent of
the population, up from 24 percent in 1990, the new housing data demonstrated a
startling degree of isolation: Hispanics and Asians are living in more heavily
Hispanic and Asian neighborhoods than they were 10 years ago, while whites and
blacks are only slightly more exposed to one another than they were in 1990.

But the truth is that immigrants are assimilating faster than they used to. The
immigrants from the golden age of assimilation, mostly from Europe, took two or
three generations to leave the ghettos they first settled in, and at least that
long to begin intermarrying in large numbers; the new immigrants, arriving since
1965, simply haven't had time to master the language and culture. According to
John R. Logan, a sociology professor at the State University of New York at
Albany, "Italians and Jews were more segregated in the first 30 years after
their arrival than Asian groups are today." The same is true, he says, for
Hispanics, except for those on the bottom of the socioeconomic ladder.

It is not assimilation that has failed; it is integration -- the word we use
specifically for the incorporation of African-Americans into the mainstream. In
"Beyond the Melting Pot," published in 1963, Nathan Glazer and Daniel Patrick
Moynihan portrayed blacks as migrants from a Southern rural culture to a
Northern urban one, subject to essentially the same dynamic as immigrants. The
new census data provide further evidence that -- as both have long since
conceded -- they were wrong. Blacks' residential exposure to whites, like
intermarriage rates, has increased every decade since 1970, but most scholars
are much less struck by the progress than by how modest the numbers remain.

The classic immigrant pattern is up and out: you leave the ghetto as soon as you
have attained even precarious middle-class status, as Jews and Italians did when
they moved from the Lower East Side and Brooklyn to the new suburbs of Long
Island. A large fraction of black segregation is explained by black poverty,
since you can't move out until you've moved up. For impoverished blacks (and for
many Puerto Ricans), isolation has become self-perpetuating, as it has not been
for immigrants.

But the census confirms another phenomenon as well: for that large, and growing,
number of African-Americans who rise into the middle class, moving out means
moving out to a largely black world. As George Galster, a professor of urban
affairs at Wayne State University in Detroit, says, "Despite conventional
wisdom, the upper-income group of black Americans by many indexes is as
segregated from white Americans as lower-income blacks are."

Implicit within the new residential data is the idea that while immigrants are
finding their way into the larger culture in much the same way as they have in
generations past, blacks remain a special case. Scholars do disagree about
whether middle-class black segregation should be understood essentially as a
matter of choice -- a conscious repudiation of the integration ethic -- or as a
consequence of such discriminatory practices as "racial steering." Probably the
distinction is too schematic. "I would put the 'voluntary' in quotes," says John
O. Calmore, a professor at the University of North Carolina Law School.
"Sometimes you're reacting to bad experiences with integration at work or in
school." Calmore observes that while integration in higher education or in the
workplace is indispensable to success, residential decisions are more a matter
of preference.

That doesn't sound so bad: in a more or less free market, people make more or
less free choices about where they want to live and whom they want to consort
with. But the price may be higher than it appears. Today's middle-class black
neighborhoods, whether St. Albans in Queens or Prince George's County in
Maryland, are much more uniformly black than the Irish and Jewish and Italian
neighborhoods that Glazer and Moynihan described 40 years ago were uniformly
Irish and Jewish and Italian. It was in those mixed neighborhoods that the hard
edges of ethnic identity were blurred (just as they are starting to be now, say,
in the new South Asian suburbs of New Jersey). Ethnic groups found a way to
remain salient as groups even as they negotiated their passage to the larger
community. They became, in New York terms, "ethnics," and in so doing altered
the culture into which they assimilated. Black Americans have done this, of
course, in myriad ways, and yet the recent data show that in many ways they
continue to stand on the outside, looking in.   JAMES TRAUB

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Return to Segregation;; Lower East Side 1900 Pop. 313,266Lower
East Side 1950 Pop. 169,337Lower East Side 2000 Pop. 91,582 Harlem 1900 Pop.
173,002Harlem 1950 Pop. 333,157Harlem 2000 Pop. 155,502 U.S.-born
whiteGerman-bornIrish-bornItalian-bornEastern European, mostly
JewishAsianBlackHispanicBritish-bornOther-European-bornOther-American Indians

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 12, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: AIRPORT SECURITY;
Groups Seek to Lift Ban on Foreign Screeners

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 942 words


Jeimy Gebin, a proud veteran of the United States Army, is angry that a new
federal law may cost her her job as a baggage screener at Los Angeles
International Airport.

Ms. Gebin, who is from El Salvador, said it was unfair that under the airport
security act enacted last month, only citizens could work as airport screeners,
thus disqualifying immigrants like her.

"It really upsets me to know that it's O.K. for me to serve this country and be
willing to die for this country," she said, "yet I'm not able to work for the
government as an airport screener."

Unhappy about this provision, immigrant groups, labor unions and some government
officials are mounting a campaign to persuade Congress to amend the law.

These groups argue that not only does the law discriminate against immigrants,
but it will also harm security at airports by forcing out experienced screeners.
Nearly one-quarter of the nation's 28,000 airport screeners are not citizens.

"This is another example of scapegoating immigrants for the national security
problems of this country," said Victor Narro, director of the Coalition for
Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. "Firing thousands of immigrant screeners
who have experience and the right qualifications is not going to make this
country a lot safer."

The campaign to change the citizenship requirement has gathered the most support
in California. At San Francisco International Airport, airport officials say
that 81 percent of the 800 screeners are immigrants, while at Los Angeles
International Airport about 40 percent of the more than 1,000 screeners are
immigrants.

Hoping to improve airport security after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the
sponsors of the airport security act called for making all screeners federal
employees, rather than employees of private contractors. The sponsors also
argued that the system would be more trustworthy if all screeners were citizens.

Representative John L. Mica, a Florida Republican who was chief author of the
House version of the bill, said: "There was unanimous support from all the
participants I know about the citizenship requirement. People felt that security
should be taken to a higher level. We're in a time of war, and people wanted the
security of knowing that only U.S. citizens were conducting the security at
airports."

The Service Employees International Union, which represents more than 2,000
screeners in California and Illinois, has organized protest rallies against the
citizenship requirement in Los Angeles and San Francisco. Working with immigrant
groups, it plans to challenge the provision in court and has arranged meetings
with members of Congress from California.

Union officials say they have a shot at getting the law changed because
Democrats and Republicans often try to show how friendly they are to immigrants,
especially Hispanic immigrants.

In recent years, American citizens have largely shunned screening positions
because of low pay and high stress. As a result, immigrants disproportionately
filled those jobs. After working for years when pay was near minimum wage and
benefits were largely nonexistent, immigrants complain that finally, when wages
and benefits are to improve markedly under the new law, they will be thrown out
of work.

Andrea Dehlendorf, an organizer with the service employees' union, said the law
created the absurd situation in which immigrant screeners could lose their jobs
but could then join the National Guard, which could in theory station them at
airports where they would supervise the screeners.

Many immigrants and some airport officials questioned the law's assumption that
citizens would keep aviation safer than immigrants would. Marina Neri, a
screener at Oakland International Airport, said: "I'm a supervisor, and I see
that some of my co-workers who are citizens are not performing their jobs as
well as some of the immigrants. Many immigrants are hard-working people."

John L. Martin, the director of San Francisco International Airport, said his
airport ran a tight screening program that largely relied on immigrants, most of
them Filipino. For years, he said, conditions and pay were so bad that the
average screener left after six weeks. But after the airport raised pay by 60
percent and improved conditions two years ago, turnover plunged.

"I'll hate to see the airport lose this highly qualified group of employees,"
Mr. Martin said. "I have no reason to think immigrants would do worse than U.S.
citizens."

In their greatest success on the issue, unions and immigrant groups have
persuaded the San Francisco Board of Supervisors to condemn the citizenship
requirement.

"Short term, this means poorer security because airport workers will have very
little incentive now to do a good job," said Gerardo Sandoval, the San Francisco
supervisor who sponsored the resolution. "Longer term, you cannot turn over 80
percent of the screeners at San Francisco International Airport and expect that
there will not be snafus and foul-ups."

Airport officials say they hope to work with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to minimize delays for those screeners who want to become American
citizens. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, plans to introduce a
bill that would put immigrant screeners who want citizenship and who qualify on
a fast track so they can become citizens in just a few months and keep their
jobs.

Vicente Crisologo, a Filipino screener at the San Francisco airport, argued: "We
immigrants can definitely be trusted. Look at the bomber in Oklahoma City.
Wasn't he a citizen? Look at the traitor in the F.B.I., wasn't he a citizen?
This law doesn't make any sense."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeimy Gebin, an immigrant from El Salvador who works at Los
Angeles International Airport, is among baggage screeners who are fearful of
losing their jobs because of a new citizenship requirement. (Kim Kulish/Corbis
SABA, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 12, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BORDERS;
Official Urges Combining Several Agencies to Create One That Protects Borders

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11


The White House Office of Homeland Security has set off a storm inside the Bush
administration with a broad proposal to create an agency that would consolidate
border security efforts now spread across the federal government.

According to a "border security white paper" produced late last month by aides
to Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, such an agency would be called
a federal border administration. It would take control of the Coast Guard, the
Customs Service, the border enforcement functions of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Department of Agriculture's agricultural
quarantine inspection program.

"Our borders today are porous and highly vulnerable to penetration by foreign
terrorists," says the paper proposing the government overhaul. It goes on to
note that almost a dozen federal agencies now bear responsibility for
controlling the borders.

"All of these agencies have other missions besides border security, so none has
security as its core institutional purpose," the paper says, recommending a
"single accountable agency."

The proposal has sparked a fierce debate inside the Bush administration and
drawn resistance from an array of cabinet agencies, causing Mr. Ridge to back
off from an initial effort to get the agency consolidation into the president's
new budget, officials said.

Susan Neely, a spokeswoman for Mr. Ridge, the former governor of Pennsylvania,
said: "The governor is on record indicating that where there are more effective
and efficient ways to secure our borders, it's something that we would be
looking at. We are definitely reviewing all the options."

But she said there was "consensus" that the White House needed more time to
consider various ideas. Several officials said the proposal was still under
consideration and could be submitted to Congress this year.

An administration official opposed to the plan, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said: "Ridge tried to push the plan through. A group of cabinet
agencies objected." The official said the opponents represented a wide range of
agencies, including the state, treasury, agriculture, justice and defense
departments.

An array of similar proposals have been made in the past to reorganize border
security. More than 1.3 million people, 340,000 vehicles and 58,000 shipments
are estimated to come into the United States each day. But the efforts died
because of inertia or bureaucratic resistance.

Officials said that Mr. Ridge began pushing the overhaul late last month.

The white paper produced by his staff argues that a consolidated agency would
produce more unity and could mobilize rapidly.

"The record of coordination and cooperation among the separate agencies with
border security responsibilities has been problematic for years and remains
mixed," the paper says.

But officials from a wide spectrum of cabinet agencies argued that the change
would be too disruptive.

At the Customs Service, which is a part of the Treasury Department, reports of
the proposal have circulated for weeks. Officials there are quick to point out
that the agency was established in 1789 by the fifth act of the first Congress.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service falls under the purview of the
Justice Department. "Since Sept. 11 we have had very strong cooperation among
border agencies and law enforcement generally," said Susan Dryden, a spokeswoman
for the Justice Department, "and we have found that working closely together in
this shared responsibility is proving very effective."

In November, Attorney General John Ashcroft announced an overhaul of the
immigration agency that would split into separate bureaus the agency's law
enforcement operations and its services for immigrants. The change was prompted
by concerns that the agency was badly equipped to fight terrorism.

Under the Ridge proposal, the border enforcement work of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, including the border patrol, would be moved into the new
federal border administration.

The reorganization also has proponents. Representative William M. Thornberry,
Republican of Texas, has introduced similar legislation. Under his plan the
Federal Emergency Management Agency would be brought under the same roof as the
Coast Guard, Customs Service and Border Patrol.

"These agencies are a key part of homeland security," Mr. Thornberry said. "I'm
hopeful that the president will at least move in this direction in the new
budget."

Ivo H. Daalder of the Brookings Institution who served at the National Security
Council under President Bill Clinton, said, "It's good to have the different
functions in different departments consolidated in a single agency." He added,
"The real question is whether it's the right time to reorganize as you're still
thinking about the larger picture."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 26, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENT;
In Preview of State of the Union Message, Bush Calls for More Money for Border
Patrols

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Me., Jan. 25


President Bush said today that he would propose spending $11 billion next year
to protect the United States' land, sea and air borders from terrorist attacks.

The president's proposal, an increase of more than $2 billion from the current
budget for border security, is to pay for more customs inspectors, more border
patrol agents, technology that will more quickly inspect shipments into the
United States and a new system that will track the arrival and departure of
people who are not American citizens.

"None of us ever dreamt that we'd have a two-front war to fight, one overseas
and one at home, but we do," he said in a speech at Southern Maine Technical
College here.

Mr. Bush added that every morning he looked at a threat assessment, an overview
of the present dangers facing the United States. "The enemy still wants to hit
us," he said. "And therefore this nation must do everything in our power to
prevent it."

Although Mr. Bush did not mention it in his remarks, the Portland airport was
the departure point for Mohamed Atta and Abdulaziz Alomari, two of the hijackers
in the World Trade Center attacks. On the morning of Sept. 11, Mr. Atta and Mr.
Alomari flew from Portland to Logan Airport in Boston and then boarded an
American Airlines jet that the authorities believe Mr. Atta later flew into the
north tower of the trade center.

"The biggest chore I have, my biggest job, is to make sure our homeland is
secure," Mr. Bush told the crowd.

He added that his goal was to create seamless borders with Canada and Mexico
that would keep out terrorists, drugs and disease but more easily let legitimate
goods in.

Mr. Bush also said the Immigration and Naturalization Service would crack down
on visitors who had overstayed their visas.

"The I.N.S. estimates that 40 percent of the people who are here illegally came
because of the generosity of America, were given a period of time in which they
could stay, and then they didn't leave," he said. "And one of the things we want
to make sure of is we find the 40 percent to make sure they're not part of some
Al Qaeda network that wants to hit the United States. And so we're looking,
we're listening, we're following every single lead."

Such a crackdown might not have affected the Sept. 11 hijackers, most of whom
were in the country legally.

Mr. Bush's speech was the fourth this week leading up to his State of the Union
address next Tuesday night, and like the others it served as both preview and
practice session for his themes of reviving the economy, winning the war against
terrorism and protecting the United States from attack.

He spoke on Tuesday in West Virginia about creating jobs and on Wednesday and
Thursday in Washington about increasing the Pentagon and domestic security
budgets.

The president spent part of his trip here touring the Coast Guard cutter Tahoma,
which was the command vessel in New York Harbor on Sept. 11. "They stayed there
for 40 days, on alert 24 hours a day, making sure that not only the traffic
flowed smoothly, but people were safe," he said of the cutter's crew.

The president also appealed to a hometown crowd throughout his remarks,
recalling his summers spent at his parents' vacation home in Kennebunkport, Me.

"It's nice to be back in -- I guess my second home," said Mr. Bush, who calls
his real home his Crawford, Tex., ranch.

Mr. Bush also joked about his father, the 41st president, as "41," and the kind
of coastal security he has as president.

"Now, you probably think I've had a sweet spot in my heart for the Coast Guard
because when I spend the night at 41's house down the coast, I wake up and see
the cutter sitting out there," Mr. Bush said to laughter.

This morning, Mr. Bush left the White House carrying a copy of "Bias," a book by
Bernard Goldberg that describes a liberal bias by the news media. Ari Fleischer,
the White House press secretary, said that he did not know who had given the
book to Mr. Bush, but that many staff members at the White House were reading
it.

Mr. Fleischer said that Mr. Bush had just begun the book and that he did not
know his reaction.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with the crew of the Coast Guard cutter Tahoma
yesterday in Portland, Me. He proposed spending $11 billion for border security,
an increase of more than $2 billion from the current fiscal year. (Agence
France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2002 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Born in U.S. at Record High

BYLINE:   By JANNY SCOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 712 words


The number of foreign-born residents and children of immigrants in the United
States has reached the highest level in history, according to a Census Bureau
report released yesterday. It found that the number had leapt to 56 million from
34 million in the last three decades.

Mexico accounted for more than a quarter of all the foreign-born residents, the
bureau's analysis of data from its March 2000 Current Population Survey showed.
That share is the largest any country has held since the 1890 census, when about
30 percent of the country's foreign-born population was from Germany.

The study found that, on average, foreign-born residents were much more likely
than native Americans to live in or around a handful of big cities. They were
almost equally likely to be in the labor force. But foreign-born residents
earned less and were less likely to have health insurance than native Americans.

While the number of foreign-born residents and their children is higher than
ever, their percentage in the population is not. In the 1910 census, that group
made up 35 percent of the population, compared with 20 percent in 2000, a
spokesman for the Census Bureau said.

The report brings together data on the age, sex and birthplaces of the foreign
born, their education levels, jobs and earnings. In doing so, it makes clear the
near impossibility of generalizing about immigrants and the immigrant
experience.

For example, while only 33.8 percent of residents over age 25 and born in Mexico
had completed high school, 95 percent of those born in Africa had. While the
median household income for those born in Latin America was $29,338, it was
$51,363 for those from Asia, well above that of native Americans.

The proportion of married couples with children under 18 ranged from 35 percent
for residents born in Europe to 73.4 percent for those from Latin America. The
proportion of naturalized citizens varied widely, from 52 percent of those born
in Europe to 21.1 percent of those born in Central America.

"The big question is how the second generation is going to do," said Nancy
Foner, a professor of anthropology at the State University of New York at
Purchase and the author of "From Ellis Island to JFK: New York's Two Great Waves
of Immigration" (Yale, 2000). "And how the presence of large proportions of
Asians, Latinos and black immigrants are changing Americans' notions of race."

The Census Bureau study found that the foreign-born population was heavily
concentrated in California, New York, Florida, Texas, New Jersey and Illinois;
those six states accounted for 70.4 percent of the total. Nearly 55 percent
lived in the nine metropolitan areas with populations of five million or more.

California led the nation with the highest percentage of foreign-born residents
with 25.9 percent, followed by New York State with 19.6. The metropolitan areas
with the largest percentage of foreign-born populations were Los Angeles were
29.6 percent and New York with 22.8.

In New York City, said John H. Mollenkopf, a demographer at the City University
of New York, 43 percent of the residents are foreign born and another 9.2
percent are the children of two foreign-born parents. In 1900, Professor
Mollenkopf said, only 23 percent of New Yorkers had native-born parents.

The Census Bureau's report put at 55.9 million the number of people of so-called
foreign stock, which includes 28.4 million foreign born, 14.8 million native
born with two foreign-born parents, and 12.7 million of mixed parentage. That
group is likely to grow, in part because the proportion of births to
foreign-born women rose to 20.2 percent in 1999 from 6 percent of all births in
1970, the report said.

While the median ages of the foreign-born and native populations barely
differed, foreign-born residents fell disproportionately between the ages of 25
and 54. The percentage of foreign-born residents in that age group was 58.7,
compared with 41.7 percent of native Americans.

"In some ways, it has complemented the baby boom," Dianne Schmidley, a Census
Bureau statistician and author of the report, said of the rise of the foreign
born. "Every discussion you hear about the baby boom and the effect of the baby
boom -- all that has been made greater by the addition of those young adults."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2002



CORRECTION: A headline on Thursday about 2000 census figures that show a record
number of foreign-born residents in the United States misstated the number. It
is 28.4 million; 56 million is the number of people who are foreign-born or who
are native-born to at least one foreign-born parent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HEAD COUNT: More Americans Born Abroad"In 2000, 56 million
Americans, or 20 percent of the population, had either been born in a foreign
country or had at least one parent who was, according to Census Bureau
estimates. The question on the birthplace of parents was not asked in 1940,
1950, 1980 or 1990. Graphs compare number born, measured in millions, in this
country to at least one foreign-born parent and born in a foreign country and
number as a percentage of the population from 1890-2000.(Source: Census Bureau,
Current Population Survey 2000 ; previous decennial censuses)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Immigrants Are Children

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 474 words


Each year, more than 4,000 children arrive in America unaccompanied by an adult.
Some are teenagers looking for work, but others are toddlers used as props by
smugglers or young people fleeing abuses like forced recruitment as soldiers or
arranged marriages. Except for Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban boy whose mother
drowned en route to America in 1999, they get little attention. But Elian's case
was unusual in another way -- he was allowed to stay with family and given legal
representation.

Hundreds of children escaping mistreatment find more of it when they arrive
here. Last year, of nearly 5,000 children in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, a third spent time imprisoned in a secure detention
facility such as a juvenile jail. While some of these minors were themselves
accused of violent crimes, the vast majority were children who did nothing more
than cross a border. Some are mixed in with violent juvenile delinquents, and a
few have been held in jail for weeks after being granted asylum. When taken from
jail to court hearings, they are shackled and handcuffed, and no arriving minor
is entitled to free legal representation. One 16-year-old boy was locked in a
hotel room for five weeks alone, without anyone to talk to, anything to read or
a change of clothes. An 18-month-old girl was taken to court for a hearing in
Florida two years ago with no lawyer or other adult to represent her.

A bill proposed by Senator Dianne Feinstein of California would change the way
the I.N.S. deals with unaccompanied children. It would not affect whether they
are eventually granted asylum or sent back home, but it would help the children
get better treatment and provide adults to look out for them during the months
of waiting. The bill would set up an Office of Children's Services outside the
I.N.S., provide a free attorney for the minor and appoint a guardian to
investigate the child's situation and make recommendations to the court. The
changes are necessary and modest and might even save money by speeding up cases.

The problem of unaccompanied minors is a complex one that touches on the
I.N.S.'s varied ills. The agency's staff is overstretched and undertrained, and
resources are short -- more beds in children's shelters are needed, for example.
The truth about an arriving child's circumstances, and even age, is often hard
to find. Most problematic the agency has a dual mission -- it protects America's
borders from those who do not deserve refuge, while helping those with a valid
reason for flight. Decisions about minors' treatment, however, should be made by
people who do not have this conflict. Children who come to the United States
alone have survived terrible hardship at home and on the journey. Every
precaution should be taken to see that America does not welcome them with more
trauma.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
The Overwhelming Allure of English

BYLINE:  By GREGORY RODRIGUEZ;  Gregory Rodriguez is a senior fellow at the New
America Foundation, a nonpartisan research institute.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1431 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A GENERATION of large-scale Latin American immigration has turned Spanish into
the unofficial second language of the United States.

In early March, Texas held the nation's first-ever gubernatorial debate in
Spanish. President Bush never misses an opportunity to show that he, too, can
speak the language of Cervantes. Meanwhile, with the press of a button, most
automated teller machines can communicate with customers in digital Spanish.
From the streets of Miami to Los Angeles, it sometimes feels as if Spanish is
giving English a run for its money.

But even with this proliferation of Spanish, the United States is still, in the
words of one prominent sociologist, a country that is a "language graveyard" for
foreign tongues. While many Americans fret over the state of their nation's
primary language, there are signs everywhere that English is triumphant both at
home and abroad.

As the United States strengthens its position as the world's economic
superpower, the global reach of its popular culture -- and accompanying English
language -- only grows. By mid-century, half the planet is expected to be more
or less proficient in English, compared to roughly 12 percent now. Why should
the American-born children of immigrants be somehow immune to the rising power
of the international language of diplomacy and commerce?

Still, there is a growing concern that the rise of Spanish threatens the
pre-eminence of English in America. Last month, Iowa became the 27th state to
declare English its official language -- the 10th since 1995. While The Des
Moines Register dismissed the act as "an embarrassment" perpetrated by a "bunch
of yahoos in the Legislature," four out of five Iowans supported it.

To be sure, the United States' proximity to Latin America combined with the
sheer size and continuous nature of Latino migration has changed the nation's
cultural landscape. Mass media, modern transportation and the Internet all
nurture Spanish in the United States in a way inconceivable to earlier waves of
immigrants. And unlike those who came before, today's immigrants can hear their
native tongue on morning drive-time radio and watch soap operas from their
homeland in the evening. Over the last decade, Spanish-language TV and radio
boomed in the nation's largest media markets.

But while immigration has powered the rise of Spanish-language media, a new
demographic trend is already shifting the balance in favor of English -- even in
the heaviest immigrant media markets in America. In Los Angeles, home to the
nation's largest Latino immigrant population, Spanish-language radio stations
routinely topped the charts for most of the 1990's. But the growth of
Spanish-language radio leveled off in the last few years. For the past nine
months, KROQ, an alternative, youth-oriented rock station, has snagged the
region's highest overall ratings. It is the first time since 1991 that an
English-language station has remained No. 1 for three consecutive ratings
periods. A fragmented Spanish-language radio market helped KROQ, but the station
has a fundamental trend on its side.

"The Hispanic share of our listenership has increased gradually over the past 10
years," says Trip Reeb, KROQ's general manager. Without actively seeking to
broaden its ethnic appeal, the station, long considered "white," now has a 40
percent Latino audience. In fact, a growing number of mainstream
English-language radio stations find themselves with sizable Latino audiences.
"Right when everyone is discovering the importance of using Spanish, we're
seeing Latinos become the backbone of the English-language audience," said
Patricia Suarez, president of Suarez/Frommer & Associates, an advertising firm
in Pasadena, Calif.

Sometime in the 1990's, demographers say, the foreign-born portion of the Latino
population reached its peak. In other words, on the basis of current
projections, from now on the immigrant or first generation will be a smaller
percentage of Hispanic America. According to Barry Edmonston, the head of the
Population Research Center at Portland State University, the fastest-growing
segment of the Latino population is the third generation, which is projected to
triple by 2040. The second generation, is expected to double. "In every
immigrant experience, there is a shift from immigrant culture to ethnic American
culture," said Mr. Edmonston. "Hispanics are in the middle of that shift right
now."

As American Latinos now become less an immigrant market and more an ethnic
market, the equation of Latinos with Spanish is beginning to fade. While slower
to make the shift than other immigrant groups, Latino linguistic assimilation is
not entirely unlike that of immigrants at the turn of the 20th century.
According to the 1990 Census, fully two-thirds of third-generation Latino
children spoke only English. And while bilingualism does persist longer within
Latino families, particularly along the border region, there is no indication
this precludes the use of English as the primary language.

As in past waves of immigration, the first generation tends to learn only enough
English to get by; the second is bilingual; and the third tends to be
English-dominant if not monolingual.

"The big picture is that bilingualism is very difficult to maintain in the U.S.,
and by the third generation it is extraordinarily difficult to maintain," said
Richard Alba, a sociology professor at the State University of New York at
Albany. "This is because English is so dominant and so highly rewarded."

It makes sense that the shift to English is being felt first in the youth
entertainment market. A two-year-old study by Nielsen Media Research shows that
even in households where the adults speak Spanish, younger Latinos prefer to
watch television in English. In fact, the preference for English over Spanish
becomes more lopsided the younger the demographic. Nickelodeon, the children's
cable network, has embraced mainstream Latino characters more than any other
network.

Two years ago, the Walt Disney Company failed in the first large-scale effort by
a Hollywood studio to broaden its domestic Latino base. But after simultaneously
releasing an English and Spanish-language version of the animated film "The
Emperor's New Groove" in 16 theaters, the studio pulled the dubbed version for
lack of interest. "The Latino audience clearly came out for the movie, but that
audience definitely preferred to see it in English," said Richard W. Cook,
chairman of Walt Disney Motion Pictures Group.

Similarly, even as the Latino population exploded, Spanish-language movie
theaters in Southern California were closing. In the last half of the 1990's, a
company that screens foreign and dubbed films cut the number of its movie houses
dedicated to Spanish-speaking audiences by more than half. Like Americans at
large, the average Latino moviegoer is a teenager. And the average Latino
teenager is American-born and more eager to see a contemporary English-language
action film than the art-house fare from contemporary Latin America. In fact, a
recent study of the children of immigrants found that by the end of high school
9 in 10 preferred to speak English and 98 percent spoke it proficiently.

AT the same time, Spanish is certainly not going away in the regions of the
country that serve as gateways to new immigrants. American-born Latinos can
enjoy Latin-American soap operas or old-fashioned boleros on the radio. But like
children of immigrants in the past, the descendants of today's newcomers will
negotiate their work lives and create art and music in the language in which
they are schooled. While bilingual education is often blamed for the persistence
of Spanish in the United States, most such programs are designed to shift the
child into English-speaking classes within three or four years. In addition, a
few elementary school years in Spanish do not give students adult-level
proficiency. Even in Miami, the nation's quintessential bilingual city,
international corporations complain of a shortage of fully bilingual workers to
conduct business with Latin Americans in professional Spanish.

Thus, despite the obvious benefits of bilingualism in a globalizing world,
English still overwhelms the languages that immigrants bring to these shores.
Not unlike previous large waves of immigrants, Latinos are introducing words and
phrases of their native language into mainstream English. But within generations
of arriving in America, Latinos eager to read the classic works of Cervantes or
Gabriel Garcia Marquez will most likely do so through English translations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
Congress Set to Break Up Beleaguered Agency

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 946 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 9


After several abortive efforts over nearly three decades, Congress is taking the
first steps this week toward the likely overhaul of the beleaguered Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

The House Judiciary Committee is prepared to approve an unusual bipartisan bill
on Wednesday that would abolish the immigration service and split its functions
into two separate bureaus, one for enforcement and one for services. The bureaus
would be overseen by a new associate attorney general, who would be the
third-ranking official in the Justice Department, the immigration service's
parent agency.

The full House could vote by the end of the month on the legislation, which has
the support of both Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, and
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader.
Proponents argue that the bill would elevate the priority of immigration issues
in the government, and separate the agency's often conflicting responsibilities.

Similar legislation in the Senate sponsored by Senators Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, and Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, is likely to
be introduced this week or next, Congressional aides said.

Reorganizing the immigration service, one of the government's fastest-growing
agencies, with 37,000 employees and a $6.2 billion budget, has been a
legislative perennial since the late 1970's. But past efforts to restructure the
agency have always failed.

This year, however, what remaining defenders the agency had on Capitol Hill
jumped ship after a series of mishaps. The agency suffered a humiliating setback
after the disclosure in March that an I.N.S. service contractor mailed out visa
extensions that month for two of the dead Sept. 11 hijackers.

With the agency reeling from that debacle, one of its port inspectors in
Norfolk, Va., ignored new post-Sept. 11 security guidelines, and allowed four
Pakistani seamen to come ashore, where they then disappeared. One seaman has
since been arrested, but the three others are at large. The fugitive sailors are
not considered security risks, but their entry was another embarrassment for the
agency.

The Bush administration and House supporters of the legislation agree that the
agency's functions must be separated to improve efficiency and accountability.
But they sharply disagree over the solution.

President Bush has said that the commissioner of immigration and naturalization,
James W. Ziglar, should be given a chance to fix his service's problems through
an administrative overhaul that separates the agency's enforcement and services
functions, and allows Mr. Ziglar to keep his job.

House leaders say Congress must take matters into its own hands and impose a
legislative remedy. "The I.N.S. tinkered with the boxes five times during just
the 1980's," Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican
who heads the House Judiciary Committee, said at a hearing today. "Despite all
these internal reorganizations, the agency is as dysfunctional as it's ever
been."

Mr. Sensenbrenner won support for his bill from the panel's ranking Democrat,
Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, by agreeing to a series of
compromises, including assigning a general counsel to the new associate attorney
general's office to oversee legal matters for the two bureaus. The new associate
attorney general would also have an office to handle children's issues.

Immigration specialists say the changes make the legislation more palatable, but
they still voice concern that the House bill would divorce functions that are
inextricably linked. Immigration inspectors at airports, for instance, are the
first line of defense against potential terrorists, but they are also the first
officials encountered by a foreigner seeking asylum. These specialists also say
the legislation falls short of creating a strong overall immigration czar.

"We think it's a step in right direction, but we still have a lot of concerns,"
said Judy Golub, advocacy director for the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

The Bush administration is in a delicate political position, and is not taking a
public position on the House bill. Immigration experts say the Justice
Department does not want to pick a fight with Mr. Sensenbrenner, especially
since Mr. Bush is considering another alternative for border security that would
require Congressional approval.

Under that plan, proposed by Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, the
Border Patrol, which is now a part of the immigration service, would be merged
with the Customs Service, now a part of the Treasury Department, with the new
combined agency falling under the Justice Department. But this plan is likely to
face stiff opposition, particularly in the Senate, aides said.

"Ridge is making a grab for your jurisdiction," Mr. Conyers told Mr. Ziglar at
today's hearing. But Mr. Ziglar refused to take the bait, and said he would go
along with whatever the administration and Congress decided was best for the
country.

Seven months into the job, however, Mr. Ziglar is racing against the clock,
trying to direct as many improvements and efficiencies as possible to stave off
the agency's critics, and maintain support from Attorney General John Ashcroft
and Mr. Bush.

"What needs to be addressed is the lack of good, strong and empowered managers
and the lack of culture of accountability throughout the agency," said Michael
R. Bromwich, a former Justice Department inspector general. "People do bad
things, people don't get punished or dismissed for incompetence or worse, and
I.N.S. personnel realize nothing has changed. That's the vicious cycle that
needs to be addressed."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Ziglar, left, the immigration chief, at a hearing
yesterday with F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the House Judiciary Committee
chairman. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Endorses Abolition of Immigration Agency

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24


With the House poised to approve a bill on Thursday to abolish the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, the Bush administration unexpectedly threw its
support behind the legislation today. Until today, the administration had taken
no public position on the bill, but had criticized it in private.

The measure, which has broad bipartisan backing, would dissolve the beleaguered
immigration service and split its functions into two bureaus, one for
enforcement and one for services. The bureaus would be overseen by a new
associate attorney general, who would be the third-ranking official in the
Justice Department, the immigration service's parent agency.

The administration and House supporters of the legislation agree that the
agency's functions need to be divided to improve efficiency and accountability.
But President Bush and the Republican-controlled House have disagreed over how
to do that.

Mr. Bush and Attorney General John Ashcroft have wanted to give the immigration
service a chance to repair its own problems. Crucial lawmakers like
Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican who heads the
House Judiciary Committee, have said, however, that Congress must impose a
solution.

Today, administration officials effectively gave in rather than pick a fight
with lawmakers from their own party and appear to be on the opposite side of
what is expected to be a lopsided vote.

"The administration is saying to the House, We're going to use your bill to
advance the vehicle of restructuring the I.N.S., and we'll work out the
differences in that forum," said an administration official familiar with the
issue.

Indeed, a statement issued by the White House late today said that the
administration supported the legislation, but that the "bill needs to be
improved in certain important respects."

Specifically, the administration fears that the bill, as written, would give the
new associate attorney general less authority over immigration policy and the
agency's budget than the current immigration commissioner, James W. Ziglar, has.

The administration has also expressed reservations about the qualifications for
senior officials in the revamped agency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 7, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush, at School, Promotes Education Bill

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: SOUTHFIELD, Mich., May 6


President Bush visited a once-failing elementary school today in a neighborhood
brimming with Arab immigrants to press educators and parents to put into effect
the education bill that he signed this year and to celebrate the successes of
young Arab students.

Three months after signing the bill, which calls for annual testing of
elementary school students, Mr. Bush defended the required evaluations, telling
students and teachers, "If you are afraid to be held accountable, something must
be going wrong."

But the school where Mr. Bush appeared, Arthur Vandenberg Elementary School,
which holds classes year-round, had demonstrated significant improvement in the
years before the bill was passed. In 1992, 29 percent of Vandenberg's students
performed satisfactorily on the Michigan Achievement Test. By 2001, the
principal said, that figure had risen to 93 percent, even though 30 to 50
students enter the school each year unable to speak English.

Just shy of 60 percent of those students speak Arabic, and the educational
challenge of teaching in English was evident as Mr. Bush toured the classrooms.
The school employs four full-time translators. Clocks, doors and other objects
around the school are labeled in English and Arabic.

Several of the students whom Mr. Bush met today had left countries that he has
identified as part of the "axis of evil." Among them was Mariam Karana,
identified by school officials as a fourth grader who arrived here two months
ago from Iraq knowing no English beyond the letters of the alphabet.

With the president in her classroom this morning, Mariam was softly reading a
short essay assigned by her teacher, "How Diversity Has Made America Great."

"She was very nervous; that's why it was so hard to hear her," said the
principal, Sharlane Charns, who has overseen the large improvement in test
scores.

Mr. Bush emerged beaming from the encounter.

"She was able, in front of the president of the United States, and the press
corps, to read about values that matter. But it's the same values that matter to
my little girls," he said, referring to his college-age twins, Barbara and
Jenna.

Then, in what amounted to a quick civics lesson for the fourth and fifth
graders, Mr. Bush took a few questions from reporters about his meeting with
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel on Tuesday in Washington and what he
thinks of Yasir Arafat.

"He must lead," the president said of Mr. Arafat as the students looked on
quizzically at the scene of the president's being peppered on Mideast diplomacy
in front of the chalkboard.

"You're watching democracy," Mr. Bush told the students.

The trip here was the first of three this week in an effort to focus anew on Mr.
Bush's domestic agenda, even as his time back in Washington is dominated by
Mideast diplomacy.

Mr. Bush was joining a 25-city tour by Education Secretary Rod Paige to make
schools and parents aware of the new education bill and its provisions for
student accountability.

In many states, the increase in student performance was under way well before
Mr. Bush pressed for the bill. Ms. Charns, the principal, told reporters after
Mr. Bush had left that the improvements occurred in the past eight years, driven
largely by her initiatives in this economically mixed suburb of Detroit.

While Mr. Bush spoke, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who
co-sponsored the bill and became Mr. Bush's unlikely ally along the way, argued
that the administration was not following through with the money needed for the
schools to meet the new requirements.

"President Bush proposes just a 2.8 percent increase in education (or $1.4
billion)," Mr. Kennedy said in a statement, "less than one-fourth of the 13
percent average increase over the last seven years. Just one month after signing
most significant education law in 30 years, the president's budget takes a large
step backward. Accountability will work only when matched with adequate
resources."

The White House says the issue is not money but reforms and insists that the
money is sufficient. The president's budget requests for next year include $387
million to help states develop systems to measure student performance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush visiting Vandenberg school in Southfield, Mich.
At rear is Sharlane Charns, principal, who has overseen major improvements.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

FOREIGNERS OBTAIN SOCIAL SECURITY ID WITH FAKE PAPERS

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19


Tens of thousands of foreigners are illegally obtaining Social Security numbers
by using fake documents, a typical first step to identity theft and other
crimes, but federal officials still have not found a way to search immigration
records to prevent the practice, federal investigators say.

In a new report, the inspector general of the Social Security Administration,
James G. Huse Jr., said that 1 in 12 foreigners receiving new Social Security
numbers had done so using fake documents. Preliminary results from an
investigation still under way show that 100,000 Social Security numbers were
wrongly issued to noncitizens in 2000, Mr. Huse said.

The continuing problem is causing great concern among law enforcement and
counterterrorism officials, because Social Security cards can be used to obtain
credit cards and the security badges needed for jobs at airports or other
vulnerable locations. Since Sept. 11, federal authorities have been conducting
nationwide sweeps to arrest people on charges of using false Social Security
numbers.

Some of the 19 hijackers on Sept. 11 had falsely obtained Social Security
numbers, which allowed them to open bank accounts and get credit cards in this
country.

Prosecutors said that Lotfi Raissi, an Algerian pilot initially suspected of
training several hijackers, had used the Social Security number of a Jersey City
woman who died in 1991.

For more than three years, Mr. Huse has recommended that the Social Security
agency check the records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service before
issuing Social Security numbers to noncitizens.

Before Sept. 11, the Social Security agency disagreed with this recommendation
and did nothing to carry it out, fearing it would lead to unacceptable delays in
issuing Social Security numbers to legitimate applicants.

The Social Security agency has since embraced the recommendation but has had
little success in getting the necessary help from the immigration agency, Mr.
Huse said in an interview. The immigration agency issues many of the documents
that immigrants use to show they are eligible for Social Security cards.

The Social Security agency needs immediate help from the immigration agency
because, Mr. Huse said, "Social Security service representatives are not trained
in studying the authenticity of foreign identity documents."

Mr. Huse said the two agencies were still working out an arrangement to give
Social Security officials access to electronic immigration files on noncitizens.
Social Security is also waiting for the immigration agency to incorporate data
on certain immigrants authorized to work in the United States.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the immigration agency, said: "We are trying
to work more closely with the Social Security Administration to reduce the use
of fraudulent documents. It's one of our top priorities."

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, said Social Security number fraud was a domestic security issue.

"Audits by the inspector general show that the Social Security Administration
has been much too loose with its control of Social Security numbers," Mr.
Grassley said. "That's extremely dangerous when criminals and terrorists are
able to use Social Security numbers to infiltrate American society."

Foreigners have obtained Social Security numbers by using counterfeit versions
of visas, green cards and arrival-and-departure forms, among other documents. In
some cases, the government has sent Social Security cards to nonexistent
children and to dozens of noncitizens listed at the same address.

Mr. Huse said the events of Sept. 11 showed that "identity theft was a prime
modus operandi of terrorists." Once a person obtains a Social Security number,
through proper or improper means, he said, the government has little control
over its use.

"The tragedies of Sept. 11 demonstrate that the misuse of Social Security
numbers and identity theft are 'breeder' offenses with the ability to facilitate
crimes beyond our imagination," Mr. Huse said in his report.

"For at least several more months," he added, "the Social Security
Administration will continue to issue Social Security numbers to noncitizens
without obtaining independent verification of documents."

In the last year, the Social Security agency issued 5.8 million numbers,
including 1.5 million to noncitizens.

The report comes during a nationwide crackdown that has already led to the
arrest of hundreds of airport workers on charges that they used fraudulent
Social Security numbers to obtain jobs providing access to airplanes, ramps,
gates and other restricted areas.

Since September, according to the inspector general of the Transportation
Department, 367 workers have been arrested at 16 airports, and 371 have been
indicted. Of those, 140 have pleaded guilty or negotiated plea agreements. In
addition, 98 people have been deported, and 28 are waiting for deportation
hearings.

The indictments name 130 airport workers in the Washington area; 66 in
Charlotte, N.C.; 69 in Salt Lake City; 32 in Phoenix; 29 in Las Vegas; and 18 in
Boston.

After using counterfeit immigration papers to obtain Social Security numbers,
many foreigners use the numbers to get airport security badges, Mr. Huse said.

Separately, federal officials are investigating hundreds of people believed to
have used false Social Security numbers to obtain credit cards and steal money.

In some cases, people detained as terrorism suspects were held on Social
Security fraud charges, which are easier to prove.

"These actions ensure that the suspected terrorists remain in the judicial
process while the terrorist investigation is continuing," said Mr. Huse, who
worked at the Secret Service for 25 years before joining the Social Security
agency in 1996.

Before Sept. 11, it was unusual for the government to imprison anyone on a
charge of having obtained a false Social Security number.

To illustrate the misuse of Social Security numbers, Mr. Huse cited the case of
Malek M. Seif, a pilot arrested in Phoenix in October. Federal officials said
Mr. Seif might have known a Sept. 11 hijacker, but he was not accused of
terrorism. In February, he pleaded guilty to Social Security fraud,
acknowledging that he had made false statements when he applied for a card.

Federal officials said Mr. Seif had obtained two Social Security numbers under
different names, obtained driver's licenses in both names and used both
identities on a variety of loan and credit card applications.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malek M. Seif pleaded guilty in February to Social Security
fraud. (Paul F. Gero/The Arizona Republic)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contractor on L.I. Is Charged With Cheating Day Laborers

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: LOCUST VALLEY, N.Y., June 12


A Long Island construction contractor was arrested this morning on charges that
he refused to pay four workers $8,360 in promised wages. The state attorney
general's office said it was the first time it had filed criminal charges
against an employer for failing to pay immigrant day laborers.

The attorney general's office has prosecuted many employers for underpaying
illegal immigrants, but until now, it has generally focused on sweatshops,
grocery stores and other more organized businesses.

"My office is firmly committed to preventing the illegal treatment of workers
who, by law, are entitled to promised wages for the long, exhaustive hours of
work they perform," the attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, said in a statement.

The contractor, Richard Holowchak, was arrested at his home here; he failed to
appear at a court hearing earlier this month, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer
said.

Mr. Holowchak, 37, was charged with four counts of failing to pay wages to the
workers, all of whom worked for him for about a month in January, refurbishing a
house on Long Island's North Shore and doing construction work on another
building in Nassau County, officials said. Mr. Holowchak promised two of the
workers $90 a day and two $100 a day, the authorities said, but he never paid
them. Mr. Holowchak did not return phone calls seeking comment.

The arrest stemmed from a task force that Mr. Spitzer's office set up last year
to investigate the treatment of day laborers who gather on street corners
looking for work.

Throughout the country, there have been debates, sometimes raucous, about
illegal immigrant workers and the extent to which public officials should
protect them. On Long Island, the debate has been fierce at times; last year,
two men were convicted of luring a pair of Mexican immigrants into a car by
posing as contractors, then attacking the workers and trying to kill them.

While federal laws prohibit the hiring of illegal immigrants, state law requires
that workers be paid promised wages regardless of their immigration status.
Juanita Scarlett, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer said the federal Labor
Department was investigating the case.

"Our policy," she said, "is never to ask immigration status because workers are
entitled to the same wages and protections under New York State law regardless
of whether their status is legal."

The case of Mr. Holowchak came to Mr. Spitzer's attention after the workers
contacted the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church,
who has worked closely with Long Island's Spanish-speaking immigrant workers.

Mr. Ramirez said he pleaded, unsuccessfully, with Mr. Holowchak to pay the men,
and then reported the case to the authorities. "This message, hopefully, will go
out loud and clear not only to the day laborer community, so they know that
they're not alone, but also to the contractors, so they say, 'Hey, I'm going to
think twice about ripping people off,' " Mr. Ramirez said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 23, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seeking Acceptance, After 5 Generations

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 173 words


To the Editor:

Re "A Slaying in 1982 Maintains Its Grip on Asian-Americans" (front page, June
18):

Treatment of Asian-Americans as "perpetual foreigners" sounds familiar.

I'm a fifth-generation Chinese-American, yet I'm often asked: "How long have you
lived in this country? When will you return to your country?"

My great-great-grandfather immigrated to the United States in the mid-1800's as
an interpreter, yet people say I "speak English very well and don't have an
accent."

My political awakening occurred with the case of Wen Ho Lee. Solitary
confinement and presumed guilt are not expected for American citizens who
believe in the Declaration of Independence, the Bill of Rights and United States
constitutional law.

Furthermore, in this era of terrorist-hunting, it is dangerous for
Asian-American immigrants and descendants to be suspected as "foreigners."

I look forward to the day that everybody accepts Asian-Americans as Americans. I
hope that I won't have to wait another five generations.

PETER LEW
Scarsdale, N.Y., June 19, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stepson of Hussein Is Arrested in Miami on Immigration Charges

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 4


A stepson of Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, has been arrested here on
immigration charges after enrolling in a flight school that had been used by one
of the Sept. 11 hijackers, federal authorities said.

The stepson, Mohammed Nour al-Din Saffi, a citizen of New Zealand who has worked
in commercial aviation, planned to attend classes at Aeroservice Aviation Center
here, said James Goldman, an assistant director for investigations with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

According to the service, Mr. Saffi was traveling as a tourist and had not
applied for a student visa that would have let him take courses. He arrived
Tuesday in Los Angeles on a flight from New Zealand.

There was no evidence that Mr. Saffi, 36, was connected to any terrorist group.

Mr. Goldman said Mr. Saffi was seeking recertification training at the flight
school. The F.B.I. said he was employed by an airline in New Zealand.

An F.B.I. spokeswoman, Judy Orihuela, said Mr. Saffi was tracked on Wednesday as
he flew from Los Angeles to Miami International Airport. He was taken into
custody at a motel shortly after he arrived here.

Mr. Saffi is at Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County and is being
processed for deportation to New Zealand, Mr. Goldman said.

The Weekend Herald, a newspaper in New Zealand, reported in December that Mr.
Saffi was employed by Air New Zealand as an engineer and had lived in the
country for six years.

They said officials in New Zealand had investigated Mr. Saffi after Sept. 11
when they learned he was President Hussein's stepson. No action was taken, the
paper said.

Mr. Saffi had declined to discuss his relationship with Mr. Hussein when asked
by the paper. The Miami Herald reported that Mr. Saffi denied to federal agents
any family tie to Mr. Hussein.

Mr. Saffi is the eldest son of Samira al-Shahbandar, Mr. Hussein's second wife.
His father is Nour al-Din Saffi, an aviation engineer and former head of Iraqi
Airways.

According to sources in Baghdad and in Iraqi exile circles, Mr. Hussein forced
Nour al-Din Saffi to divorce his wife in the late 1970's before Mr. Hussein
married her. He has since married again.

Mr. Saffi is believed to have left Iraq after the Persian Gulf war in 1991 --
first to neighboring Jordan and then to New Zealand -- after an argument with
his mother.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 7, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

El Al Gunman Faced Deportation in 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 64 words


The Egyptian immigrant who killed two people at Los Angeles International
Airport on Thursday was nearly deported in 1996, but later gained permanent
residency status, federal officials said yesterday.

In response to the shooting, officials said they would place armed law
enforcement officers -- uniformed and plainclothes -- at ticket counters and
other public areas of airports.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 7, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Unit Almost Deported Airport Gunman in 1996

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 6


The Egyptian immigrant who fatally shot two people at the El Al ticket counter
at Los Angeles International Airport on Thursday was nearly deported in 1996
after his application for permanent residency was denied, federal officials said
today.

The immigrant, Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, who was killed by an airline security
guard, entered the country legally on July 31, 1992, on a six-month tourist visa
and later filed to remain permanently, said Ron Rogers, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The request was denied and deportation
proceedings begun.

It was unclear why the residency request was rejected, Mr. Rogers said. But Mr.
Hadayet gained permanent status about a year later when his wife, Hala, was
granted permanent residency through the Department of State's Diversity Lottery
Program.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation said Mr. Hadayet, 41, who had run a
limousine service, went to the El Al counter intending to kill people, but his
motive remained unclear.

"Obviously, we're checking into his background," said Laura Bosley, a
spokeswoman for the F.B.I. "We're trying to establish who his associates were
and family members to establish what motivated him to do what he did. Until we
can establish that, it would be premature to speculate."

Background checks revealed that the police in Irvine, Calif., where Mr. Hadayet
lived, went to his apartment on a domestic dispute call six years ago, but he
was not prosecuted.

The records show officers were called to the apartment on May 19, 1996, and
found that Mr. Hadayet and his wife "had been involved in a physical
confrontation." Each was listed as a victim of an assault and battery on a
report that the police submitted to the district attorney's office for potential
assault and battery charges against both parties. No one was arrested, and the
district attorney declined to prosecute because of lack of evidence.

The only other Irvine police files on Mr. Hadayet were from an incident in
January 1997, when he was robbed while driving a cab at John Wayne Airport in
Orange County, and when he was listed as a witness and victim in a fraud case
reported last November.

On Thursday Mr. Hadayet fired 10 or 11 bullets before he was fatally shot by an
airline security guard. Three other people were wounded, including a guard who
was stabbed as he fought with Mr. Hadayet. An F.B.I. spokesman, Matt McLaughlin,
said the guard would recover..

The families of Mr. Hadayet's two victims were in mourning today and preparing
for burials -- one in California the other in Israel.

The family of Victoria Hen, 25, who was working at the ticket counter where the
shooting took place, was sitting shiva at their home in Chatsworth, in the far
north San Fernando Valley. A family spokesman said Ms. Hen, who worked for a
firm that contracted with El Al, had been knowledgeable about security and had
no fear of working at an airline. She had worked there about two months.

"She would go to work with a beautiful smile," said Joseph Knoller, a spokesman
for the family.

Ms. Hen's burial is scheduled for Sunday in Eden Memorial Park in Mission Hills,
Calif.

Jacob Aminov, a 46-year-old father of five with another child on the way, will
be buried on Monday in Israel, which was his wish. He had been at the airport
because he volunteered to take a friend there.

A diamond importer who owned a business in downtown Los Angeles, he was
described as down to earth and devoutly religious. He helped found the Sephardic
synagogue Yad Avraham -- Hand of Abraham -- in North Hollywood.

On Sunday, the family plans to eulogize him before flying his remains to Israel
on an El Al plane.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 7, 2002 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

U.N. Coaxes Out the Wheres and Whys of Global Immigration

BYLINE:   By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words


For years, as the number of people moving legally or illegally across national
borders has grown, governments have resisted United Nations efforts to collect
reliable statistics and coordinate procedures governing immigration.

The United Nations estimates that at least 185 million people -- up from 70
million three decades ago -- are now living in countries other than where they
were born.

But demographers say that attempts to analyze these population movements are
often frustrated by government officials who try to inflate or to obscure them.

Now, in the midst of an intensifying debate about immigration in Europe and the
United States, in part fueled by fears of terrorists crossing borders, the
United Nations population division will meet on Thursday and Friday in New York
to begin exploring global cooperation on the issue. The meeting is expected to
be the largest of its kind, attracting the participation of governments, refugee
organizations, volunteer agencies and policy analysts.

"This time, people are serious," said Demetrios Papademetriou, a former public
policy analyst in the United States Labor Department who is now the co-director
of the Migration Policy Institute, a research organization in Washington created
by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace two years ago. "There is a
different air to this meeting. A lot of people are now making serious
investments."

Beyond what are perceived as problems of immigration in richer countries, there
is mounting evidence of threats to peace and life from migrations, often forced,
in poor nations. For example, African leaders have said that the long-running
Congo war cannot be resolved until Hutu refugees from neighboring Rwanda, now
ruled by Tutsis, have been moved out.

Debates over immigration, said Joseph Chamie, director of the United Nations
Population Division, are characterized by "a yawning lack of data, absence of
theories to explain international migration, a weak understanding of the complex
interrelationship between migration and development, and concerns about the
social, economic and political consequences."

There are no internationally agreed upon definitions of terms like "citizenship"
or "residence." Nationalist hackles rise quickly in some developed countries,
especially in Europe and Japan, when demographers suggest that low birth rates
and aging populations may require huge inflows of immigrants to keep economies
afloat.

Two years ago, for example, Mr. Chamie was publicly criticized by the European
Union after talking with the media about the possible need for "replacement
migration" before European governments had had a chance to consider the issue.

United Nations officials say the lack of data has often obstructed important
work. Only one in three member nations ever report statistics, the United
Nations says, and some governments have not been heard from for decades.

Dr. Papademetriou of the Migration Policy Institute said he hoped that the mix
of private, governmental and international experts meeting in New York would
"come up with solutions that allow us to husband public resources in a very
effective and responsible way." The institute has established a Web site,
www.migrationinformation.org, to collect information and analyses.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2002



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about United Nations efforts to address
problems of global migration misstated the number of people the United Nations
estimated were living outside their country of birth three decades ago, as
contrasted with 185 million today. The older number is 80 million, not 70
million.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 7, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

If You're Thinking of Living In/Brighton Beach;
Magnet for Immigrants, Moving Upscale

BYLINE:  By NANCY BETH JACKSON

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1816 words


NEIL SIMON grew up in the Bronx, but it is Brighton Beach that he brought to the
stage and screen when he recalled his 1930's boyhood in "Brighton Beach
Memoirs." The first act opens in "a wooden frame house, not too far from the
beach. It is a lower-middle-income area inhabited mostly by Jews, Irish and
Germans."

Today's gawky Eugene Jerome, once played by Matthew Broderick in his first
Broadway role, might be a second-generation Russian-American with Mexicans, not
Murphys, living across the street. If Eugene wanted to sneak a smoke behind the
Brighton Beach Baths, he would find instead a gated community with penthouses
selling for $1 million on the 15-acre tract. And those little beach bungalows of
yesteryear with the square footage of a junior one-bedroom now sell for upward
of $250,000, if they have not been replaced by a new condo.

"Brighton Beach is one of the most exciting places in New York; it's a
combination of something foreign and something very local," said Aviva
Zeltzer-Zubida, a Russian-born doctoral candidate in sociology at the City
University of New York. She does not live in Brighton Beach but cannot stay away
from the food shops and night life in what has long been called Little Odessa,
after the Ukrainian city on the Black Sea.

Yet summer mornings on the boardwalk of Brighton Beach, tucked between raucous
Coney Island and affluent Manhattan Beach, are much as they were in the 19th
century when New Yorkers traveled out from the city by steamboat, train and
trolley to savor the sea breezes. The elevated tracks of the Q line and the
bustle in shops along Brighton Beach Avenue are only a few blocks away, but the
ocean stretches forever from the broad sandy beach. Freighters head east on the
horizon as a few sailboats bob closer to shore. You could be on Miami Beach, not
a $1.50 subway ride from Manhattan.

Brighton Beach, named after the English seaside resort, began to develop as a
summer vacation spot shortly after the Civil War when William A. Engeman
recognized its salubrious possibilities. Catering to middle-class families, he
built a pier, a hotel and a bathhouse, adding a racetrack in 1879 after the
completion of Ocean Parkway. The nation's first bike path was built along the
parkway in 1894. A beachside amusement park with a carousel and giant roller
coaster added to the attractions.

The Brighton Beach Baths replaced the amusement park in 1907. Members played
mah-jongg or tennis and enjoyed concerts. From its earliest years, Brighton
Beach offered top entertainment with John Philip Sousa's band, the first Yiddish
vaudeville theater and Victor Herbert in the early years and Milton Berle,
Lionel Hampton and Herman's Hermits later on. Today, Russian night spots like
the National and the Oceana Theater stage extravagant Las Vegas-style shows.
Instead of Yiddish actors, the neighborhood now has the Brighton Beach Ballet
Theater and School of Russian Ballet.

Brighton Beach became a year-round community with the conversion of beach
bungalows. In the 1920's and 1930's more than 30 six-story apartment buildings
were built on streets south of Brighton Beach Boulevard. The elevator buildings
with doormen, Art Deco entrances and salt water in the bathtubs attracted what
one Brighton Beach historian called "the creme de la creme" of immigrants,
escaping the tenements of the city.

The Jerome family of Mr. Simon's imagination lived in a single-family house on a
narrow lot north of Brighton Beach Boulevard. When moviemakers filmed the movie
in 1986, they found it easy to recreate the 1930's neighborhood on Brighton
Fourth Street (numbered streets are all preceded by "Brighton"). The
architecture had not changed much, even if residents might have felt more at
home in "Moscow on the Hudson," the 1984 Robin Williams comedy that included
scenes in the National.

In the late 1970's, Brighton Beach had all but succumbed to urban blight.
Apartment buildings were bullet-scarred and graffiti-covered. McDonald's pulled
down its Golden Arches. Younger residents fled to the suburbs, leaving behind
one of the oldest populations in the country. The Brighton Beach Baths remained,
but not the grandeur.

THEN a community outcry organized by a young widow who could not afford to move
away and a change in the Soviet immigration policy saved the neighborhood.

In 1977, the widow, Pat Singer, rallied her neighbors. They staged a
demonstration at Brighton Beach and Coney Island Avenues, where the traffic
lights allow pedestrians to cross in all directions at once. For four hours,
about 500 demonstrators, many in wheelchairs and walkers or aided by canes
protested the deterioration of the neighborhood and its services. Out of the
protest grew the Brighton Neighborhood Association, which Ms. Singer directs
today.

About the time Brighton Beach residents citizens decided to take back their
neighborhood, the Russians began moving in. The Soviet Union began to allow
refuseniks, many of them Jews, to emigrate.

In Mr. Simon's play, Eugene Jerome worried that "at any minute there could be a
knock at the door with 37 relatives from Poland, showing up looking for a place
to live." Beginning in the late 1970's, the knock on the door came from Russian
relatives and friends, who found Brighton Beach a good launching pad for life in
America.

The neighborhood soon had the largest Russian-speaking population in the city
and perhaps in the nation. Russian remains the first language on Brighton Beach
Boulevard. An English-speaker entering a food shop -- even the bustling N&I
International Food with its immense assortment of pickles -- would do well to
bring an interpreter if only to read the signage and packaging.

"I'm called the Mother of Brighton Beach, but I'm a bad mother because I can't
communicate with my children," laughed Ms. Singer, whose mother immigrated from
Odessa, but spoke Yiddish. "I can say, 'Thank you' and 'Wait one minute.' "

To communicate with other residents, Ms. Singer would need to speak more than
Russian. The neighborhood is home to Pakistani, Afghan, Indian, Hispanic, Asian
and longtime Jewish residents as well as Russians. Brighton Beach no longer has
a kosher meat market, but several shops advertise their meats are halal. The
synagogues that long have dotted the neighborhood have been joined by an Islamic
center on Neptune Avenue. The library has Russian books in one corner, Chinese
magazines on the shelf, a Jewish interest section as well as cassettes for
learning English and foreign-language videos.

As a portal for immigrants, Brighton Beach is always adding another ingredient,
but the dish is more a textured beef stroganoff than pureed melting pot.
"Everyone lives in close proximity with a lot of interaction but little mixing,"
Ms. Zeltzer-Zubida observed.

Many second-generation immigrants head to the suburbs when their children
approach school age, but neighborhood schools reflect a rich diversity. Abraham
Lincoln High School, whose former students include Arthur Miller, Joseph Heller,
Neil Sedaka, Neil Diamond, Elizabeth Holtzman and Harvey Keitel, has students
from 40 different countries and offers instruction in Russian and a special
science and math program.

About 10 to 25 percent of the students in grade schools in the neighborhood are
recent immigrants, mostly from Mexico, Pakistan, Russia and Ukraine, but
standardized test scores are generally high. At P.S. 100, 2951 West Third
Street, 72 percent of the students met the standard in reading and 60 percent in
math in annual tests administered by the city and state. At P.S. 225 at 1075
Ocean View Avenue, those meeting the standards totaled 66 and 67 percent,
respectively. P.S. 253 at 601 Ocean View Avenue, which enrolls students from 42
countries speaking 33 languages, scored considerably lower: 32 percent in
English and 36 percent in math.

The new Oceana condominium development on the boardwalk also has a polyglot of
residents, drawn by the beach and the proximity to Kennedy Airport, 13 miles
away. The gated community, which will ultimately have 850 apartments in 15
buildings of 5 to 12 stories, had its genesis more than a generation ago when
the family of a Russian-born Brooklyn contractor named Isaac Muss took a gamble
on Brighton Beach. In 1980, his grandson Stephen Muss, by then a prominent Miami
Beach developer, bought the Brighton Beach Baths, which his family had been
leasing, and began planning a high-rise complex.

In 1999, Stephen's cousin Joshua Muss, based in Queens, bought the property and
shifted the design to shorter buildings. Using architects who had designed
Fisher Island in Miami, the Musses have completed five buildings, where
occupancy is more than 96 percent. A sixth will be finished in November and the
seventh projected for spring 2003. Two-bedroom condos range from the
mid-$300,000's to $600,000, three-bedrooms from $490,000 to $750,000 and
penthouses of three or four bedrooms start in the high $600,000's and can exceed
$1 million. Private parking near the entrance of each building cost $40,000;
underground valet parking for 1,200 cars will be available for a monthly fee.

Sergy Guberman, a former ballet dancer turned real estate entrepreneur, moved
his family to Staten Island for more space and newer construction, but he is
betting that people like him will return in Brighton Beach if better housing is
available. He recently razed six cottages on Brighton Fourth Street just south
of Neptune Avenue to build an eight-story condo with landscaping, parking. and
fancy kitchen appliances. A two-bedroom apartment with a Jacuzzi bath costs
$345,000. Even before the building was finished, all but two of the apartments
had been bought by Russian-Americans in their 30's, 40's and 50's. ARTHUR
KESSLER, Brighton Beach-born and a realtor for nearly 30 years, predicts that
replacing out-of-date housing with condominiums will be the trend of the 21st
century, particularly since so much of the area is already zoned for multiple
dwellings. Angela Friedman, a Russian-born real estate agent at Fillmore Real
Estate, said that bungalow prices were soaring because some were being restored
for use as beach cottages by Russian-Americans who want to return to Little
Odessa at least for the summer.

Renting? Don't ask. "Zero vacancy and I mean zero, zero -- you wait in line,"
Mr. Kessler said. Many agents, including Mr. Kessler and his wife, Pat, no
longer handle rentals. The market is by word of mouth or local newspapers -- in
Russian.

Meanwhile, Brighton Beach is becoming more upscale, glitzy with little fancy
pockets here and there. Milena, where immigrants from Tashkent, Uzbekistan, have
been selling women's fashions for 20 years, now has a monitor showing the latest
from the catwalks and a two-story glass facade that would fit right in on
Madison Avenue.

Can Banana Republic, Gap and Ann Taylor be far behind? "Just give us time," says
Pat Singer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Russian signs abound near Brighton Beach Avenue at Brighton
12th Street, top; the Oceana condominium complex; and houses near Corbin Place
and Brighton 15th Street. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times);
2-bedroom, 2-bath condominium at 2943 Brighton Fourth Street, $325,000. 3-family
house at 3033 Brighton Sixth Street, $425,000. 3-bedroom, 3-bath condominium at
the Oceana, $600,000. Chart: "GAZETTEER"POPULATION: 32,489 (2000).AREA: 0.46
miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $25,064 (1997 estimate).MEDIAN PRICE OF
ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $200,000.TAXES ON A MEDIAN HOUSE: $900.MEDIAN PRICE OF
TWO-FAMILY HOUSE: $260,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF AN OLDER TWO-BEDROOM CONDO:
$175,000.GOVERNMENT: City Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr. (Democrat).CODES:
Area, 718; ZIP, 11235.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 16.5 miles.RUSH-HOUSE
COMMUTATION: Q Express, 35 minutes ($1.50 one way).KNISHES IN A TIME WARP:
Borscht and blinis are neighborhood staples these days, but the baked knish
holds its ground at Mrs. Stahl's, a no-frills storefront that has been serving
up the paper-wrapped specialty under the El at Brighton Beach and Coney Island
Avenues for 65 years. When Mayor Guiliani lost his 2001 Super Bowl wager to the
Baltimore mayor, he paid off in part with two dozen mixed knishes -- potato,
cabbage, cheese and mushroom -- from Mrs. Stahl's. Russian immigrants have been
slow to develop a taste for knishes, but Les Green, a Brooklyn businessman who
bought the shop in 1985 after Mrs. Stahl's death, keeps them coming. A dozen
years ago he added a frozen kosher knish wholesale business. Now he also offers
next-day-air gift packs as far away as Hawaii, Puerto Rico and Miami Beach and
has a Web site in the works. Map of Brooklyn highlights Brighton Beach.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2002 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: THE DETAINEES;
U.S. Deports Most of Those Arrested in Sweeps After 9/11

BYLINE:   By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 563 words


As legal challenges to its policy of secret detentions advance slowly through
the courts, the government has managed to deport most of the Sept. 11 detainees
at the center of the lawsuits.

Some 1,200 South Asian and Arab men were arrested in sweeps after the terrorist
attacks, and 750 of them were ultimately detained on immigration violations, the
Justice Department said. As of four weeks ago, when the latest head count was
released, all but 74 had been expelled to their home countries or, in a handful
of cases, released to resume their lives in the United States.

The government, citing national security concerns, has refused to disclose the
names of those foreigners it held in detention, including the vast majority who
were never charged with anything other than overstaying a visa. It has also
banned the public from the deportation hearings of "special interest detainees"
once it has finished investigating them.

The secret detentions and secret hearings have been attacked in federal lawsuits
filed by civil liberties groups in Washington, D.C., New Jersey and Michigan,
and those cases continue to wend their way through the judicial system.

"The fact that many of the so-called 9/11 detainees have been deported in no way
diminishes the significance of the current legal challenges," said Lee Gelernt,
a lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union, adding that some detainees are
still affected by the government's secrecy policies.

The group's lawsuits asked for the names of all detainees, whether they were
still in the country or not.

Federal district judges have ruled against the government's blanket closing of
hearings and refusal to release detainees' names. The Justice Department
prevailed in just one instance so far. The New Jersey Supreme Court on Tuesday
let stand an appellate decision against the disclosure of names.

Civil liberties groups and Muslim-American organizations have complained for
months about the treatment of the foreigners picked up after Sept. 11, the lack
of information given to the prisoners' relatives and the continued detention of
people who had agreed to leave the country.

The pace of expulsions began to pick up in March, culminating in the group
deportation of 26 Pakistani detainees on a chartered aircraft on June 26.

They were among 131 Pakistanis who flew home together after being gathered from
detention centers around the country. In addition to the Sept. 11 detainees, the
passengers included 70 people who had ignored previous deportation orders and 35
who had been charged with crimes.

The immigration service routinely organizes special flights, usually once or
twice a week, when large numbers of people from the same country are being
deported, said Karen Kraushauer, a spokeswoman for the I.N.S.

Other expulsions of the Sept. 11 detainees have been so abrupt that family
members did not know for days after the fact.

In the case of Ali Yaghi, a Jordanian detainee who had applied for residency,
his American wife and three children in Albany were never told that he was
deported to Jordan on June 24, after spending nearly nine months in the
Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn on an immigration charge.

Mr. Yaghi has not been heard from since, raising fears in his family that
Jordan's security services may have been so suspicious about his long detention
that they arrested him upon arrival.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2002



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about the deportation of foreigners who had
been detained for immigration violations after Sept. 11 misspelled the surname
of a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who commented
on transportation arrangements. She is Karen Kraushaar, not Kraushauer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: IMMIGRATION;
71 Obtained Fraudulent Visas At American Embassy in Qatar

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10


An investigation by the State Department has found that 71 people obtained
fraudulent visas from the United States Embassy in Qatar in 2000 and 2001, in
some cases in exchange for bribes of more than $10,000, Bush administration
officials said today.

One man who got such a visa, Rasmi al-Shannaq, 27, was a roommate in the
Washington suburbs with two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Hani Hanjour and Nawaq
Alhazmi. Mr.

Shannaq is being held on charges of visa fraud in Baltimore, but federal
investigators say there is no evidence he was aware of the September plot.

Two other recipients of the illegal visas are also suspected of "some
relationship" to the hijackers, one official said, but they were not identified.

"At this point, we don't have any other links to terrorism," another official
said on Tuesday, "but that's clearly a major issue for investigators."

At a hearing in Baltimore, a federal prosecutor said today that Mr. Shannaq had
been denied visas four times before paying $13,000 for an illegal one as part of
a bribery ring.

The visas were issued using the computer authorization codes of at least one
embassy officer who was an American citizen, as required. Officials said
investigators questioned a former embassy employee, an American citizen who
lives in Virginia, and were also investigating a former employee who lives in
Jordan.

"We'll punish people to the maximum extent of the law," one official said.

Officials said 31 people were in custody in the United States as a result of an
investigation that began last year, and 29 others were still being sought.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 12, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 49 words


An article yesterday about the deportation of foreigners who had been detained
for immigration violations after Sept. 11 misspelled the surname of a
spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who commented on
transportation arrangements. She is Karen Kraushaar, not Kraushauer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 17, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: DETAINEES;
2 Seattle Men Call Inquiry Wrong on Ties To Al Qaeda

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WILSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 739 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, July 16


A former inner-city mosque under investigation for suspected ties to Al Qaeda
was run by mostly young African-American men who saw themselves as armed
enforcers for a block overrun by drug dealers, members said.

A former leader of the Seattle mosque, Semi Osman, 32, a Tacoma resident who
reportedly holds a British passport, was arrested in May on immigration and
weapons charges.

Two members, the brothers James and Mustafa Ujaama, said in a news release on
Monday that they were under investigation and denied any wrongdoing.

The Seattle Times has reported, however, that federal investigators believe that
James Ujaama and two members of the London mosque of Sheik Abu Hamza al-Masri, a
radical clergyman who is suspected of being tied to Osama bin laden, visited a
remote farm in Bly, Ore., to try to set up a Qaeda training camp in 1999.

The investigation has shaken Seattle's largely moderate Muslim community of
about 30,000 members.

The mosque, called the Yasin mosque, was in a strip mall at a corner controlled
by dealers in crack cocaine. When the building was condemned after an earthquake
in 2001, the mosque moved a few doors down in the same building and was renamed
Dar-us-Salaam.

"Almost everybody carried" a weapon, to help guard the area, said a former
member, Eric McDaniel.

Another member, Abdul-Hakim, said that members once beat a drug dealer and that
the police had raided the mosque for weapons.

Mr. Hakim said the accusations of ties to Al Qaeda were unfounded. Mosque
members were interested in the Oregon property, he said, because they wanted to
raise animals for religiously pure meat and to start a cemetery.

"We never heard the words 'Al Qaeda' until they came out of George Bush's
mouth," Mr. Hakim said.

In the news release, Mustafa Ujaama said that his brother had traveled to London
and to the Middle East but that it was unfair to call them terrorists "because
of where we have prayed," The Seattle Times reported.

The King County executive, Ron Sims, said the Ujaama brothers were respected
members of the community. "These two gentlemen are community activists, not
terrorists," Mr. Sims said through a spokeswoman.

But a British fighter in the Taliban who is in custody at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
told investigators that James Ujaama had set up a Web site for the London
mosque, The Times has reported. James Ujaama is listed as the founder of the Web
site stopamerica.org.

"America's foreign policy makers have brought hate to the people of the United
States," reads a statement on the site attributed to James Ujaama. "We the
people of the United States charge this government and their coalition with
conspiracy to commit genocide and crimes of terrorism against Muslim people in
our names."

Parents and officials at an Islamic school where Mustafa Ujaama and other mosque
members sent their children said they had extremist attitudes.

"When one of the preschool teachers wanted to talk to him about his children, he
said he didn't talk to women," the principal, Ann al-Moslimany, said of Mustafa
Ujaama.

One of the men from the mosque once objected to the school's American flag, Mrs.
Al-Moslimany said.

"We have not had very good relations to them," she said. "They certainly were
very extreme." But she said did not think they were terrorists.

Mr. Osman, the mosque's former imam, has been indicted on charges of
fraudulently applying for United States citizenship and having a handgun with
the serial number scratched off. He paid his wife $50 to marry him to gain
American citizenship, the indictment said. Executing a search warrant in May,
investigators found anti-American literature, weapons and survival gear.

Mr. Osman was born in Sierra Leone, holds a British passport and has lived in
the United States since the late 1980's, his lawyer has said.

Residents of Bly said he lived in their town in 1999. Mr. Osman was quiet and
friendly, unless you went on his rented ranch, neighbors said. When Perry
Thompson, a rancher, went to check on howling dogs there, Mr. Osman threatened
him with what looked like a 9 millimeter automatic pistol, Mr. Thompson said.

Melba Thompson said Mr. Osman came out with a sawed-off shotgun when she and her
daughter went to inspect the ranch as a rental. "There were no gunshots and no
large groups of men, like I read in the paper," she said. "But Semi was an
obstinate, arrogant, crazy man who acted like he was trying to shock some
country bumpkins."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 18, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexicans Hail U.S. Envoy's Latino Roots

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 17


Mexicans largely welcomed President Bush's nomination of a Texas state official,
Antonio O. Garza, as ambassador to Mexico, but some warned against expecting too
much simply because Mr. Garza is the grandson of Mexican immigrants.

"One would hope that his Latino roots would help forge a closer relationship
between the two countries," the columnist Adrian Trejo wrote in a daily, El
Economista. "But experience has shown us that sometimes American Latinos can be
harder on fellow Latinos than any other group."

There is little doubt that Mr. Garza, a member of the Texas Railroad Commission
and a political ally of President Bush, will be doing some damage control in the
often bumpy relations between the two countries.

"Mexico's policy with the U.S. has tended to bypass the Paseo de la Reforma,"
where the embassy is located, "but now that will become the first line of
contention," said Antonio Ocarranza, a political analyst who had been a
spokesman for the former president, Ernesto Zedillo.

Mr. Garza "not only has a great knowledge of the border and Mexico, but he has
close contact with Bush," Mr. Ocarranza said.

Mr. Garza, whose nomination is subject to Senate approval, would replace
Ambassador Jeffrey Davidow, a career diplomat posted to Mexico City in 1998.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 19, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico to Close Once Celebrated Agency Aiding Mexican Immigrants in U.S.

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 18


President Vicente Fox, who has heralded some 18 million Mexican immigrants in
the United States as "national heroes," will close an office that had been
specially created to represent their interests in the federal government,
officials said.

The responsibilities of the office, whose creation just after Mr. Fox's
inauguration in December 2000 had been celebrated by immigrant leaders as a
political triumph, will be taken over by the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

Deputy Foreign Minister Enrique Berruga said that the decision would bolster
President Fox's efforts to serve the needs of Mexican immigrants by taking the
mission of a single office and charging it to some 47 Mexican consulates in the
United States.

"I think we have a lot to bring to the program in that we have a larger
infrastructure," Mr. Berruga said in an interview on Wednesday. "All of it is at
the service of those communities."

Immigrant leaders in the United States, however, called the announcement a
troubling setback. Mexican immigrants in the United States, most of whom cross
the border illegally in a desperate search for work, had long been treated by
past governments as a source of national shame. Government officials made only
quiet gestures of appreciation for the billions of dollars immigrants send home
each year -- Mexico's third largest source of income after oil and tourism.

Shortly after his election, which ended the 71-year rule of the Institutional
Revolutionary Party, President Fox promised to open a direct line of
communication between his government and some 18 million Mexicans in the United
States. The new agency, the Office for Mexicans Living Abroad, was housed in the
presidential complex. In numerous visits to the United States, President Fox
promised to serve the needs of Mexicans there just as he would serve Mexicans at
home.

"We are very discouraged by the news," said Jaime Lucero, a New Jersey-based
businessman and self-made millionaire who was one of the most important
financial supporters of President Fox's immigrant policies. "By opening the
office, President Fox sent a strong message that we were important to Mexico and
to his government. By closing it after such a short time, he sends the message
that we were not important for very long."

Guadalupe Gomez, president of the a powerful Mexican immigrant federation in
California, said, "We had never felt so close to a president and to a
government."

The decision to close the office was reached after a protracted power struggle
within the Fox administration for control of one of the government's most
prominent political agendas. Since his election, President Fox has made
immigration a priority, and his push for sweeping immigration reforms in the
United States won admiration on both sides of the border.

The director of the Office for Mexicans Living Abroad, Juan Hernandez, traveled
regularly to the United States seeking financial support from powerful immigrant
confederations for projects in the poorest regions of Mexico. He also lobbied
federal and state officials in the United States to improve undocumented
immigrants' access to education and health care and to make it cheaper for them
to wire money back home.

However, his high-profile campaigns often irritated ministers in the Fox
cabinet. They complained that Mr. Hernandez often announced new programs without
consulting directors of the agencies that would be responsible for carrying them
out. Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda, one of President Fox's most trusted
aides and the architect of the government's immigration proposals, was
considered a major rival.

Mr. Hernandez, formerly a chief campaign adviser to President Fox, has refused
to comment on the decision to close his office. It was remained unclear whether
he would continue his work in the government.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 19, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Divided by a Call for a Common Language

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: GREEN BAY, Wis., July 18


One board member called the resolution the "least significant document" to cross
his desk in a decade on the Brown County Board of Supervisors. Yet Nancy
Nusbaum, the county executive, said it would most likely prompt her first veto
in 15 years.

The resolution, making English the official language of county government here,
has no practical impact -- the county translates documents and provides
interpreters only when required by federal law. But the symbolic effects have
already torn through this fast-changing city in weeks of angry debate.

"Either you just don't get it, or you just don't care," Kevin Kuehn, a
supervisor who opposed the resolution, told his colleagues before the bitterly
divided board voted 17 to 8 on Wednesday night in favor of the resolution. "Is
it that you don't understand? Is it that you have fear? Or is it a racist act?
Because I don't understand what else it can be."

In passing the resolution, which also calls on the state and federal governments
to pay for English classes for immigrants, Brown County joins at least 11 other
Wisconsin counties, and 27 states, that have adopted English as their official
language. Though the movement has gained strength in recent years as part of a
backlash against growing numbers of immigrants, it has taken on particular force
since Sept. 11, fueled by patriotic fervor and fears about an uncertain economy.

"English has been the most important unifier of our country for the last 200
years -- it's a symbol of being American, right up there with the flag, 'The
Star Spangled Banner,' the Pledge of Allegiance," said Valerie Rheinstein, a
spokeswoman for U.S. English, a Washington group that advocates such
resolutions.

"You're free to come here and you're free to make a life for yourself, but
you're also free to leave," Ms. Rheinstein added. "You're coming here to be an
American. Being an American means you're going to have to speak English."

Here in Green Bay, the battle over the English resolution has exposed the
discomfort that quietly accompanied the shift from a largely homogenous town
united in devotion to the Packers football team to a city where Hmong farmers
pick cilantro and onions in community gardens and Mexican flags flap from cars
on the Cinco de Mayo holiday.

According to the 2000 census, 7 percent of Green Bay's 102,313 residents, and 4
percent of Brown County's 226,778, are foreign born, up from 2 percent of the
city and 1 percent of the county in 1990. Two decades ago, Green Bay was 97
percent white; now it is 85 percent. The county is home to 5,000 Asians and
9,000 Hispanics.

Amid the apartment buildings along Imperial Lane, near the Packerland meat
processing plant where some 70 percent of the workers are immigrants, a barrio
has sprouted, with signs marking tenant parking in English and in Spanish. In
the basement of the First Presbyterian Church, where Hmong girls learn
traditional dances for New Year's, twin yellow posters in two languages announce
free immunizations.

When Isaias Alvarez opened La Guadalupana, a Mexican grocery, three years ago,
he had to drive to Chicago weekly to stock his shelves with flax seed, epazote
and chile morita. Now, with about 10 bodegas in town, delivery trucks arrive
every Thursday with those spices, along with Spanish-labeled products like
Nestle's La Lechera, a form of sweetened condensed milk, and Knorr's Caldo de
Tomate, tomato bouillon.

Karl Txajkaug Thoj, director of the Hmong Association of Green Bay, sees the
resolution as an unwelcome mat that says to his community, "You're not
important, forget about your culture, forget about being different." After Mr.
Thoj protested the measure at a public hearing, he received an anonymous letter.
"Yes, you people are not welcome in Green Bay," it said. "Green Bay was nice
until you freeloaders came. You multiplied like animals and want everything for
nothing."

Noting that the 26 members of the county board are all white, a columnist in The
Green Bay Press-Gazette likened the resolution to apartheid. Green Bay's mayor
and the Chamber of Commerce have joined nuns and rabbis in opposing it.

In a series of contentious public hearings over the past two months, residents
favoring the resolution expressed concern that the county would have to spend
money translating documents and providing interpreters as the community
continued to diversify. Invoking the Americanization of their European
ancestors, they said the resolution would unite the community, not divide it.

"If I cannot exchange ideas with you, we're already divided," Mary Verheyen told
the board at a June meeting. "We need one thing to unite us. Let it be we can
understand each other."

But the measure's opponents make the same point. May Xiong, whose family were
the first Hmong to arrive in the area in 1976, and who now owns an Asian grocery
where Hmong videos and shaman's incense sticks are for sale, recalled her years
as a nurse treating bleeding American soldiers in the Vietnam War.

"They do not speak any Lao," she said. "What would happen to their legs, their
arms, their eyes? They need a translator."

On Wednesday night, 31-year-old Sean Ryan, who owns a fast-food restaurant,
stood in a corner of the crowded hearing room holding aloft three sarcastic
signs. "Mi casa NO es su casa," one read. Another attributed a quotation, "More
conformity is better for all of us," to Hitler and Brown County.

After several contentious meetings over two months, the supervisors changed the
title of the resolution from "Resident Responsibility Act" to "Brown County
Diversity Resolution," and tried to soften its language. Proponents said it was
aimed at unity.

John VanderLeest, a supervisor who voted for the resolution, said he hoped it
would push people to learn English more quickly, thus enabling them to find
better jobs and become citizens. Pat Collins, who sponsored the initiative, said
that "the vast majority of the middle of this county" supported it and that
calls from constituents had been 9 to 1 in favor.

"When we pass it, the sun's going to rise in the morning, people will get on
with their lives," Mr. Collins said. "This county will have made a statement.
That's all it is."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean Ryan, above, expressing his view of the English resolution
Wednesday. May Xiong, who as a nurse in the Vietnam War treated American
soldiers, none of whom spoke Lao, said: "What would happen to their legs, their
arms, their eyes? They need a translator." (Photographs by Mike Roemer for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 23, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Many Arrested In Crackdown On Corruption In New Orleans

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, July 22


The police began rounding up more than 80 people on bribery charges today in a
sweeping crackdown on corruption at the city's auto inspection and
taxi-licensing agencies.

The auto inspection agency and its three stations were closed by the roundup,
which began before dawn, and the authorities said all 20 of the employees at the
stations would be implicated. Two city officials were fired, and one of them was
arrested.

Eighty-four people in all, 77 of them taxi drivers, were named in arrest
warrants accusing them of bribery, fraud and malfeasance. About 30 have been
arrested.

The authorities said city employees took bribes to hand out taxi permits to
illegal immigrants and to overlook automobile safety violations. The police said
one of the inspectors, a nine-year veteran, told investigators that "she was
trained to do it that way."

Mayor C. Ray Nagin said that the investigation would probably reach into other
agencies and that more arrests could be coming. The mayor, who began his term in
May, said there was "hard evidence" that previous administrations knew of
corruption and did nothing.

"It is very clear that this type of behavior has been going on for many, many
years," Mayor Nagin said.

The city has long had a reputation as a place of excess, from food and drink to
prostitution to graft. Federal prosecutors are investigating the relationship of
bail bond companies to judges in suburban New Orleans.

Mr. Nagin's predecessor, Marc A. Morial, was credited with cleaning up
corruption and brutality in the Police Department. Former Chief Richard
Pennington, who recently took the top police job in Atlanta, presided over
indictments, firings and disciplinary actions against more than 350 officers.

Mr. Nagin, a former cable television executive, said his administration was
examining contracts signed in the last days of Mr. Morial's term. He said
previous administrations had ignored problems.

"This is inexcusable and should have been taken care of long ago," Mr. Nagin
said. "It is not leadership, it is not management. It's not anything but
complicity."

Mr. Morial, who was barred from seeking a third term and is now in private law
practice, said, "If any information had been brought to me directly, I would
have turned it over to the proper authorities and ordered a complete
investigation."

Most of the arrest warrants were issued for taxi drivers, many of whom were
illegal immigrants. The police said the drivers paid bribes of $200 to $1,000
for taxi licenses.

Capt. Louis Dabdoub of the Police Department said taxi bureau employees also
illegally waived a $50 inspection fee required every six months, costing the
city thousands of dollars, and were suspected of fixing tickets.

The investigators also focused on the annual inspections of private vehicles,
which is handled by the city. Undercover officers were sent into inspection
stations with vehicles that obviously could not pass safety inspections. They
found that inspectors routinely approved substandard cars after accepting
bribes.

Brian Cain, deputy director of the taxi bureau's parent, the Utilities
Department, was arrested and fired. His boss, Lillian Regan, was fired.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: IMMIGRATION SECURITY;
Border Customs Agents Are Pushed to the Limit

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1439 words

DATELINE: ROMA, Tex.


It is high noon, 102 in the shade, and Andres Guerra is a blue blur in his
wool-blend United States Customs uniform, dashing from car to car at this border
crossing from Mexico.

Interrogating drivers, flashing his mirror under tailpipes, peering into gas
tanks with a fiber-optic probe, tuning in his radiation detector, he is guarding
the border as best he can. His recent catches include more than $1 million in
illegal cash, a ton of marijuana, 600 pounds of cocaine and three writhing baby
alligators hidden under a smuggler's blouse.

But since Sept. 11, Mr. Guerra has been looking hard for a more deadly cargo. He
and his fellow customs officers are now on the front line of the United States'
defense against terrorists and their weapons.

"You've got a vast number of vehicles coming across," said Rudy Santos, a
customs chief in Laredo, roughly 80 miles northwest of Roma. "Try to find the
bad guy among them. Try to find the canister of cyanide."

At every crossing along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, and in the trackless
desert in between, the Customs Service is on a round-the-clock high alert. Its
inspectors, working double shifts, have been pushed to their limits by their new
task.

"They are absolutely getting weary," said Mr. Santos, who oversees 36
inspectors. "The body can take only so much physically. The guys are working
16-hour shifts in heat that'll knock you down."

Before Sept. 11, the Customs Service was mostly concerned with speeding trade
and impeding contraband. Now the 213-year-old agency has shifted its priorities
to guarding against killers with a cause.

One of the nation's oldest agencies, the Customs Service works alongside the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border Patrol to control the flow
of goods and people in and out of the United States. It may be swallowed or
split up by the Homeland Security Department that Congress is starting to
create.

Dismembering or dissolving the service "would be a serious mistake of the first
order," said the customs commissioner, Robert C. Bonner, who wants it
incorporated intact into the new security structure.

Mr. Guerra and his colleagues, interviewed at nine border posts in Texas and
California, wonder whether their jobs will get even more difficult if their
service disappears in the biggest government reorganization since the end of
World War II.

"Everybody's asking questions," Mr. Guerra said, "and we're not getting too many
answers."

The United States' frontiers to the north and south are the longest undisputed,
undefended borders on earth. Customs inspectors have long known that anyone can
sneak into the United States from Mexico -- anyone, that is, who dares cross the
Rio Grande or the desert in secret.

"People cross the river like we cross the road," said Ventura Cerda, a customs
agent who patrols a 100-mile stretch of South Texas up the Rio Grande from Roma.
"This border is open. Policing it cannot be done. People down here specialize in
smuggling everything and everyone. I don't care if it's humans or weapons. All
you got to do is get across that river and you're good."

Short of building a wall from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico, the task
of actually securing the border, most agree, is impossible. "It would take a
million people, I suppose -- maybe more," said Paul H. O'Neill, the secretary of
the Treasury, which oversees the service.

A quarter of the service's more than 20,000 agents are deployed at border posts.
Every day they see roughly 1.3 million people going in and out of the United
States. They peer into 350,000 cars, trucks and buses a day. With the help of
their sniffer dogs, they seize more drugs than any other arm of the government.
They collect more revenue -- about $22 billion a year in duties and fees -- than
anyone but the tax man.

At the Mexican border, inspectors also have to speed a quarter-trillion dollars
in annual cross-border commerce. They try to interrogate every potentially
suspicious person coming into the country, watching for white knuckles or a
jumping pulse.

"The guy on the line has to make a determination within seconds whether to
intensely examine someone," said Mr. Santos, the chief in Laredo.

Given the pressure to keep cross-border commerce flowing freely, Mr. Santos
said, balancing free trade with national security can become an unmanageable
high-wire act: "There's no way you can do both."

Francis Brown is the assistant customs director for trade operations in Laredo,
where some 4,000 tractor-trailers enter the United States daily. It is the
border's busiest truck port, with its truck traffic up about sixfold since the
advent of free trade with Mexico in 1994.

"You have to treat each one as a threat now," Mr. Brown said. "The inspector has
to look at the particulars of every shipment. He has 30 seconds to two minutes
to make a decision. Does he know what's coming across?"

At San Ysidro, Calif., which also handles some of the heaviest tourist traffic,
some 50,000 Mexicans cross legally every day, commuting from the area around
Tijuana to work in San Diego and elsewhere. Without them, hundreds of
restaurants, hotels and small businesses would crumble. Francisco Luna, chief
inspector at San Ysidro, said the agency "cannot spend minutes inspecting
vehicles, because the economy would be ruined."

When the border first re-opened after the attacks, intensified inspections made
the wait at the busiest crossings as long as 15 hours. Now, at most crossings,
the wait is nearly back to what it was before September -- a consequence,
customs agents say, of them working even harder and thinking faster.

Complicating the task further, inspectors along the border are under constant
surveillance from smugglers.

"They're watching us," Mr. Santos said. "They see what we are doing. We've
gotten a lot of bomb threats. That disrupts our operations."

Mr. Cerda, on patrol along the Rio Grande, said that hundreds of unseen eyes and
ears "are on both side of the border, listening to us, watching us."

Mr. Bonner, the commissioner, said those spotters worked for Mexico's most
powerful drug cartels. The United States fights them in a continuous contest of
cat and mouse.

"There's a gamesmanship that's going on that probably rivals anything during the
cold war," said Mr. Bonner, a former chief of the Drug Enforcement
Administration.

As in the cold war, the C.I.A. and its fellow services have worked more closely
with the Customs Service and other domestic law enforcement and
internal-security branches of the government since Sept. 11. But many border
guardians say little useful intelligence reaches them.

Mr. Guerra, the inspector here, said he learned a lot from lessons in
interrogation that a C.I.A. officer taught customs personnel.

Mr. Santos, on the other hand, said he "would like to see real intelligence
instead of generic intelligence" that was sanitized to protect sources.

Customs officers can look through travelers' vehicles and possessions without
search warrants, probable cause or reasonable suspicion. But some said they
needed access to private information, like tax data, to fight potential
terrorists.

"There are certain inefficiencies built into the system, because this is a
democracy," said David P. Higgerson, the customs director in Pharr, Tex. "If
Osama bin Lopez shows up here and he has a tourist visa, but he also has a
Social Security number, could we stop him?"

"We don't know how to do that," Mr. Higgerson said, because of walls erected by
federal privacy laws. "Do you want a young dog handler here knowing whether or
not you filed a tax return last year?"

The answer from a new homeland security department, he said, would probably be
yes. "I think we will have access to this stuff as homeland security starts to
integrate."

X-ray and gamma ray machines already scrutinized many trucks entering from
Mexico. Now the Customs Service tries to inspect billions of tons of cargo
before they enter the country.

Its inspectors gather information and conduct background checks on Mexican
trucking and shipping companies, as well as on the truckers who ferry cargo
across the border.

"You're trying to pinpoint which of hundreds and hundreds of boxes in a trailer
or a truck might be carrying contraband, and that's hard enough," said
Crescensio Cantu Jr., the customs director in Roma. "Better to pinpoint the
smuggler."

Customs inspectors at the Mexican border hear one question repeatedly from
travelers, truckers and tourists. Anacleto Botello, a veteran at the port in
Hidalgo, Tex., said he had heard it a thousand times: "Do I look like a
criminal?"

Since Sept. 11, he said, "The question is, Who's not a criminal?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Customs officers, and sometimes their dogs, have to determine
within a few seconds whether to check a vehicle entering the country at Laredo,
Tex. (Lynsey Addario/Saba, for The New York Times) Chart: "On the Line"In 2001,
approximately 286 million people crossed the border with Mexico legally,
traveling in more than 97 million vehicles and crossing by foot. Traffic at some
of the busiest border crossingsIN THOUSANDS, 2001 PEOPLESan Ysidro:
47,937Calexico: 33,355El Paso: 51,295Laredo: 25,996Hildalgo: 22,688 PRIVATE
VEHICLESSan Ysidro: 15,675Calexico: 9,670El Paso: 17,285Laredo: 7,684Hildalgo:
7,761 TRUCKSSan Ysidro: 0Calexico: 259El Paso: 656Laredo: 1,419Hildalgo: 368
BUSESSan Ysidro: 106Calexico: 2El Paso: 9Laredo: 40Hildalgo: 34 TOTAL
VEHICLESSan Ysidro: 15,781Calexico: 9,932El Paso: 17,950Laredo: 9,144Hildalgo:
8,163 VALUE OF CARGOSan Ysidro: $197Calexico: $4,421,192El Paso:
$24,743,307Laredo: $45,906,671Hildalgo: $7,312,091 (Source: U.S. Customs
Service) Drawing (Sarah Slobin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Benefits of English

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 104 words


To the Editor:

Re "Divided by a Call for a Common Language" (news article, July 19):

The cause of immigrants and old-timers alike suffers when pro-English ordinances
are viewed as part of a xenophobic "backlash." Resolutions like the one passed
in Green Bay, Wis., could greatly increase the social and economic opportunities
of immigrants who are not yet fluent in English.

Furthermore, immigrants and non-immigrants who have a language in common may be
able to channel their conflict into constructive debate and discourse, building
trust and even friendship across both communities.

DANIEL SCHIFF
New York, July 20, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 28, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Their Neighborhood

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 79 words


To the Editor:

Thank you for for a much-needed, accurate presentation of the invasion of
Hamilton Heights by the international drug trade.

Two questions:

Why aren't the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Internal Revenue
Service cooperating to deal with this issue? And how is it that billions of tax
dollars are shipped to Colombia, yet the 30th Precinct can barely find resources
to answer the calls of local residents?

HAMILTON HEIGHTS
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 28, 2002 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Towers Cast Shadows, Another Loss

BYLINE:   By STEVE STRUNSKY

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2571 words

DATELINE: KEARNY


LIKE much of New Jersey visible to outsiders, the natural splendor of the
peninsula jutting into Newark Bay south of Route 1 and 9 has been sacrificed to
the greater good of industry and commerce.

In addition to the endless rumble of 18-wheelers, South Kearny -- as this
hardscrabble spit of land is known -- is home to a shipping terminal,
warehouses, a state prison for sex offenders and perhaps most notably the Hudson
County Correctional Center.

It is inside the correctional center where another kind of sacrifice has been
made since Sept. 11, in which the rights normally afforded to immigrants -- even
when they overstay their visas or are accused of other violations -- have been
suspended in the name of national security and the pursuit of those suspected of
having conspired in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.

The correctional center in Kearny -- like others in Paterson, Elizabeth and
Hackensack as well as other locations around the country -- has been under
contract with the Immigration and Naturalization Service to house the 1,000 or
so immigrants rounded up nationwide and detained in the aftermath of the attacks
on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

The immigrants who are the focus of these cases have been detained, brought to
hearings and often deported in secret under policies implemented by the Justice
Department and accepted by many lawmakers and ordinary Americans horrified by
the attacks.

"I know that certain people's rights are being infringed," said Rolando Galang,
32, of Jersey City, a driver for River Terminal Development, the shipping
terminal near the jail. "But whatever's best for the country. There have to be
sacrifices."

He no doubt speaks for many. After all, New Jersey's mothers, sons, sisters and
friends suffered an indescribable toll in the attack on the towers -- once such
a looming presence that in the morning they would cast their twin shadows clear
across the Hudson River. Among the 2,823 people reported missing or confirmed
dead in the Trade Center attack, 694 were from New Jersey, according to the
State Police.

But Regis Fernandez, an immigration lawyer who represents two detainees at the
Hudson County jail, views the erosion of constitutional rights -- where others
see caution -- with growing alarm.

"There are two problems with the secret detentions," Mr. Fernandez said. "One is
the lack of evidence and the fact that people are being detained, and the
Department of Justice is making now qualms about them engaging in racial
profiling against Arabs. And two, which, is probably the most disturbing part,
is the lack of access to the historically open deportation process. And working
together, they eliminate two major safeguards, which are the right to confront
your accuser and the right to present your case in open court subject to public
scrutiny."

More than 10 months after the attacks -- just as the state suffered unspeakably
on Sept. 11 and then played a crucial role in the evacuation and rescue effort
-- New Jersey has become a kind of ground zero for the legal battles over the
secret detentions and closed immigration hearings ordered last September by
Attorney General John Ashcroft. And two of the three major court decisions in
secrecy-related cases have come out of suits filed in New Jersey -- one of them
in Federal District Court in Newark and the other in State Superior Court in
Jersey City.

It is no accident that the legal battles are playing out here, rights advocates
say, since the state is home to large communities of Arab and Muslim immigrants
in cities like Jersey City and Paterson, where many of the detainees were
rounded up. Nor can it be forgotten that the details of the plot to fly
jetliners into the World Trade Center were worked out in a shabby apartment in
Totowa, and that the 1993 plan to blow up the Trade Center was honed in Jersey
City.

Still, advocates for the detainees insist that the overwhelming majority of them
are guilty of nothing more than overstaying their visas and that the
government's enforcement of immigration laws against Muslims is highly selective
in that other groups -- who surely include those with lapsed visas or other
problems -- have not been swept up and detained.

"So many so-called 911 immigration detainees have been held in New Jersey, so it
seemed appropriate to file lawsuits there, and in some cases necessary to file
them there," said Lee Gelernt, senior staff counsel for the Immigrants Rights
Project at the American Civil Liberties Union's national headquarters in New
York.

Lawyers also say New Jersey was the logical place to file suit since the Third
Circuit already had experience with cases involving secret evidence used to
detain immigrants. In one such case, Hany Kiareldeen, the manager of an
electronics store in Passaic, spent 19 months in jail based on evidence -- the
content of which was never divulged -- that he threatened to kill former
Attorney General Janet Reno before the government's case collapsed and he was
ordered freed in 2000. Mr. Fernandez, his lawyer, reiterated recently that Mr.
Kiareldeen's accuser was his former wife, who made the accusations as part of a
child custody dispute.

Sam Masra, a volunteer for the Montclair-based Human Rights Education Law
Project, founded in October in response to the wholesale detention of Muslims
and Arabs, said many people were deported without ever having had access to a
lawyer because of the veil of secrecy thrown over their cases.

"We know that the number of detainees after 9/11 reached 1,000 in New Jersey
alone," said Mr. Masra, a native of Egypt. "What's most difficult for every
family is the uncertainty. The government is not saying anything. And especially
when the person is the only person who works in the family, the husband or the
son. It just makes life very hard."

In the federal case in New Jersey, a lawsuit was filed by the American Civil
Liberties Union in conjunction with other rights groups on behalf of two news
organizations -- The New Jersey Law Journal and the North Jersey News Group,
which includes The Record of Hackensack and The Herald News, which covers
Passaic County.

No Explanation From the Court

The case is significant for several reasons. For one thing, it is the only
secrecy case to have come up so far in the aftermath of Sept. 11 to be addressed
by the United States Supreme Court. In the case, the Supreme Court temporarily
blocked a May 28 ruling by Judge John W. Bissell in Newark finding that the
secret hearings were an unconstitutional violation of the press and the public's
First Amendment right of access to government proceedings.

The Supreme Court did not explain why it issued a stay of Judge Bissell's order
pending the outcome of the Justice Department's appeal of the order before the
Third Circuit Court of Appeals. As a consequence, there has been little clue as
to the court's view of the case -- other than the fact that it may be considered
an important one since the stay was referred to the entire court by Justice
David H. Souter, to whom the request was submitted and who could have acted
alone.

But depending on the Third Circuit's decision, the Justice Department or the
A.C.L.U. could then petition the Supreme Court to decide on the
constitutionality of the closed hearings.

In the federal case, the two clients of Mr. Fernandez -- who is handling this
case as well -- are a pair of Jordanian cousins, Majdi and Issam Rawashdeh, who
were seized in June, for remaining in the United States after their tourist
visas lapsed in 1999 and have languished in the Hudson County jail since then.
The two men had been living in Paterson and working at an Exxon station in
Paramus, and according to Mr. Fernendez had decided to leave the country because
of anti-Arab sentiment after the Sept. 11 attacks. A written request to talk to
the two men was denied.

"I.N.S. headquarters is still not granting permission for these two individuals
to give media interviews," said Kerry Gill, a regional spokesman for the agency
in Newark.

Their case was one of the few scheduled to move forward under Judge Bissell's
order to open the special-interest hearings, and a hearing date had been
scheduled for June. A week before the scheduled hearing, the immigration agency
asked the judge for a postponement pending the Justice Department's appeal of
Judge Bissell's order. The immigration judge, Eugene Pugliesi, denied the
request for a postponement, which Mr. Fernandez said was clearly an attempt by
the agency to defy Judge Bissell's order. But the I.N.S. immediately appealed
Judge Pugliesi's denial to a panel known as the Board of Immigration Appeal,
which gave the agency the postponement it was looking for.

The issue was rendered moot by the Supreme Court's stay of Judge Bissell's
order, allowing the case to move forward in secret. Strangely enough, Mr.
Fernandez said, his clients are still waiting in the Hudson County jail for the
immigration court to rescheduled their hearing.

The case of the two Jordanians illustrates what Mr. Fernandez and others say is
a structural conflict inherent in the immigration court system, which is not a
branch of the federal judiciary but rather an agency within the Justice
Department known as the Executive Office for Immigration Review. The agency,
made up of 220 immigration judges in 51 jurisdictions, is headed by Judge
Michael Creppy, who in September -- at the direction of Mr. Ashcroft -- ordered
that all special-interest hearings be closed.

It was at Mr. Ashcroft's direction that the I.N.S., which falls under the
Justice Department's jurisdiction, imposed its policy of keeping the names,
incarceration dates and other information about each detainee secret.

Appearance of Conflict Is Seen

To Mr. Fernandez, there is at the very least an appearance of a conflict when
one agency grants a sister agency's request in pursuit of a policy goal -- in
this case, secrecy -- of an official who has authority over both agencies.

Of further concern to Mr. Fernandez is that the immigration review office is
currently reducing the size of the appeal board to 16 members from 23. With 19
current board members -- there are four vacancies -- the downsizing means three
board members will lose their seats.

"I think there's a general consensus that people at the immigration board of
appeals are worried about losing their jobs," Mr. Fernandez said.

Mr. Gagne and Mr. Miller, the Justice Department spokesman, declined to address
Mr. Fernandez's concerns.

Like the federal case in New Jersey that was decided by Judge Bissell, the suit
filed in state court initially resulted in a blow against secrecy, with the
trial judge ruling against the state. But in this instance an appellate panel
reversed the judge, handing the Justice Department its first court victory
concerning its post-Sept. 11 secrecy policies.

In that case, the New Jersey chapter of the A.C.L.U. -- known formally as the
American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey Foundation -- sued the Hudson and
Passaic County jails and sought the names of the detainees held there under
state's public information laws. Judge Arthur D'Italia ruled in March that
officials of the Hudson County jail in Kearny and the Passaic County jail in
Paterson were obligated to turn over the names of detainees. But a panel of the
State Appellate Division of Superior Court later ruled that the jails were bound
by contract to adhere to the policies of the federal immigration agency.

The A.C.L.U. then asked the New Jersey State Supreme Court to review the
appellate ruling, but on July 9 the court informed the rights group that it
would not take up the matter, effectively allowing the appellate ruling to stand
-- and the names of the detainees to remain secret. The A.C.L.U., in
consultation with its national affiliate, is considering whether to appeal the
case to the United States Supreme Court.

At this point, there are 74 special-interest cases pending around the country,
Mr. Gelernt said.

Though the Justice Department has declined to discuss the 74 special-interest
cases or the lawsuits surrounding it, department lawyers have repeatedly
asserted in court papers and oral arguments that revealing information about the
detainees, either through the release of their names or by opening their
immigration hearings, would jeopardize national security and compromise the
terrorism investigation. In the New Jersey State Supreme Court case, for
example, the department issued a statement applauding the decision, asserting
that revealing the names "could provide terrorists a road map of the
department's investigations."

Judge Bissell's federal court decision ordering that the immigration hearings be
held in the open still allowed for the standard practice of keeping certain
evidence secret or certain hearings closed by demonstrating compelling national
security concerns, but the Justice Department has rejected such case-by-case
steps, insisting that even arguing why certain individual cases must be kept
secret could itself reveal something that might jeopardize the department's
terrorism investigations.

Along the loading docks in South Kearny, where many immigrants have found work
in this country, sentiment is divided.

Walter Kummel, a 34-year-old resident of Jersey City resident who came to this
country from Argentina two years ago, was packing cardboard boxes into a
recycling bin at the Gateway Warehouses, two blocks from the jail. Speaking in
Spanish, Mr. Kummel likened the detainees here to "los desaparecidos," or "the
disappeared," -- thousands of Argentine students, intellectuals and others whom
the country's military government considered leftists and were taken into
custody from 1972 to 1983, never to be seen or heard from again.

"Not all of them are bad," Mr. Kummel said, referring to the detainees. "It's
difficult."

Of course, the fear of secret proceedings is particularly acute among Middle
Easterners living in New Jersey.

'Secrecy Means No Rights'

"Back in the Middle East, when you were held in secret, we had a saying in the
Secret Service in Jordan: 'Whoever goes in is lost, and whoever comes out is
reborn,' meaning executed," said one Jordanian immigrant, who asked that his
name not be used for fear of retribution against relatives still in Jordan.
"Usually, secrecy means you have no rights, and no family members will ever be
able to ask and find out anything. And unfortunately, there's a similarity to
what's happened now to the dictator states in the Middle East."

Joe Klak, a 37-year-old driver for Yellow Trucking here, said said that while he
could understand the concerns for the rights of detainees, he supported the
secrecy anyway.

"They've got to do what they've got to do to protect our safety, you know," Mr.
Klak said, nodding in the direction of the World Trade Center attack. "We let
our guard down for one minute, and see what happened?"

Another truck driver, John Jablonski, 43, of Kearny, said the uniquely terrible
nature of the attack on the World Trade Center justified exceptions to the
rights immigrants usually enjoyed.

"That was the worst atrocity we've ever seen in our lives in this country," said
Mr. Jablonski, who was born and raised in Kearny. "If it takes them six months
to figure out that a guy's innocent, we're sorry."

"I'm not saying there should be innocent people in jail, but you know what?" he
added, gesturing toward the towers. "A lot innocent people were in there, too."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2002



CORRECTION: An article on July 28 about immigrants detained in New Jersey after
Sept. 11 misstated the name of a news organization on whose behalf the American
Civil Liberties Union has sued in federal court. It is the North Jersey Media
Group, not the North Jersey News Group.

The article also misstated the location of the apartment where some of the Sept.
11 hijackers lived. It is the Totowa section of Paterson, not the town of
Totowa.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hudson County Correctional Center in Kearny is housing some
of the immigrants rounded up. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Senator
John S. Corzine, top, called on the government in January to speed hearings on
the more than 200 people that had been detained at the Passaic County jail in
Paterson since Sept. 11. Uzma Naheed of Bayonne, left, held a photograph of her
husband, Anser Mehmood, detained at the Passaic County jail. Regis Fernandez,
below, is an immigration lawyer representing two detainees at the Hudson County
jail. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); (Photographs by Associated Press); Michael
Ratner, left, and Bill Goodman of the Center for Constitutional Rights are among
lawyers who are challenging secret hearings of detainees. (Chester Higgins
Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A National Snapshot

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 370 words


Every decade, by order of the United States Constitution, America counts its
inhabitants and, in the process, takes a valuable snapshot of itself. The 2000
national census instantly told us that the country had grown to almost four
times the size it was a century ago. Now, as the Census Bureau reveals the
richer details from that counting, we can find clues about exactly how the
populace has changed.

One out of every nine residents is now foreign-born, and we have already seen
some of the responses. On the one hand, politicians from coast to coast are
signing up for Spanish lessons. On the other, radio ads in still-homogeneous
states somberly warn that if the borders aren't closed, Des Moines will soon
look like Los Angeles or New York. While that sort of improbable paranoia is
hard to worry about, the extent of the xenophobia now infecting parts of Europe
is a reminder of how important it is to stand behind the concept of the United
States as a nation of immigrants.

The census also sent warnings about a more mundane problem -- traffic. More than
three-quarters of Americans drive to work, with the average commute up from 22.4
minutes in 1990 to 25.5 minutes now. Monster traffic jams have spread to monster
suburbs around cities like Atlanta. At some point, as the globe warms and the
icecaps melt from burning fossil fuels, this nation of commuters will be
steaming too long in their cars and will begin transferring their anger where it
belongs -- to Congress and the White House.

The census also shows why health care has started to rank high on every poll of
voters' concerns -- the nation is growing older as the steadily wrinkling baby
boomer group adjusts the nation's median age upward to 35.3 years compared with
32.9 years a decade ago. Some areas of Florida have already begun outfitting
ramps and slowing down stoplights for the elderly. The rest of the nation will
soon have to follow.

Many Americans reported a dramatic improvement in their income by 2000, although
their sense of good fortune may have taken a beating lately. But even at the
height of the economic boom, the level of poverty showed little improvement -- a
sign that the rising tide had left plenty of boats on shore.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 30, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visa Delays Give Fits to Program Planners

BYLINE:  By CELESTINE BOHLEN

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words


From the Pacific coast to Central Park, directors of arts festivals across the
country are scrambling this summer to fill empty slots left by foreign artists
whose visas to the United States failed to materialize in time for their
performances because of intensified security checks instituted since last
September.

In most cases visa applications have been caught in a mounting pileup at
Immigration and Naturalization Service offices, particularly at the Northeast
regional center in Vermont where the average wait for processing petitions has
grown to four and a half months. In rarer cases applicants have been rejected
outright, sometimes for reasons that are understandable and sometimes for
reasons that seem arbitrary.

Among the artists denied entry were 10 of the 28 members of an Iranian troupe
that performed at Lincoln Center Festival 2002 this month, and most recently a
Yugoslav pianist with a recording on EMI Classics to his credit and a
recommendation from the conductor Christoph Eschenbach in his file. The pianist,
Aleksandar Serdar, had to drop out of the Carmel Bach Festival in California
after immigration officials decided he did not qualify as "an artist of
extraordinary ability or achievement."

Americans welcome a more stringent review of foreign visitors to the United
States, and festival directors and concert presenters say they are ready to
accept the consequences of increased scrutiny as the price for heightened
security. But there is growing frustration over the long delays and
uncertainties.

"We know the world has changed, but we would not like this red tape to change
how we design our programs," said Jan Denton, executive director of the American
Arts Alliance, who recently met with immigration officials about the concerns of
arts groups.

The immigration service acknowledges that delays have increased because of
security checks that must be done on every foreign visitor. "Believe me, that
has made it very hard for us," said Danielle Sheahan, a spokesman for the
service in Washington. As result of the State Department's tightened
requirements, United States consulates overseas rejected 27.24 percent of all
visa applications in the six months from last October to March compared with a
24.82 percent rejection rate in the previous 12 months, a spokesman for the
Bureau of Consular Affairs at the State Department said.

As of January, all men 16 to 45 seeking to enter the country must fill out a
detailed biographical form. A document issued by the United States Consulate in
London says all applicants from China, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Russia, Somalia,
Sudan and Vietnam must fill out the same form. In addition applicants from other
countries -- both those that are officially linked to terrorism and others that
the State Department will not identify -- are subject to further security
checks, adding to delays.

"We understand that in many cases delays are tantamount to refusals, but
unfortunately we are required to go through all these processes," said Edward
Dickens, spokesman for the Bureau of Consular Affairs. "Right now the order of
the day is security."

In the arts the problems are most acute for small groups and festivals that
cannot afford a $1,000 expediting fee instituted by the immigration service in
June 2001. It theoretically gets petitioners answers on visa applications within
15 days. The standard fee is $130.

But many presenters and directors say the expedited requests have clogged the
system, further delaying regular petitions. They also say that the $1,000 fee
does not always guarantee a quicker answer.

"The premium processing fee was set up for high-tech companies, not for little
Irish bands," said Robin Boyd, an agent in Bethlehem, Pa., who is still waiting
for a response to an application in March for Craolbh Rua (Red Branch in
Gaelic), a band from Northern Ireland. When no visa approval had come from the
Vermont center by June, Ms. Boyd had to cancel seven performances, including
three at the Old Songs Festival in Altamont, N.Y.

The average waiting time on visa applications varies widely among the country's
four visa processing centers. The wait at the Nebraska center is two months,
while California -- which like Vermont is the object of bitter complaints by the
entertainment industry -- is averaging waits of three months. The wait is two
and a half months at the Texas center.

No figures are available for the number of applications since the September
attacks, but all kinds of immigration and naturalization petitions have been
rising in recent years at the four national centers. In 2001 the number of
foreigners admitted to the United States on P and O temporary visas --
categories reserved for artists, athletes and other special workers -- was
85,310. No comparable figure was available for the first half of 2002.

One complaint by arts groups is that the immigration offices do not acknowledge
how long it takes to process applications, thus complicating their ability to
schedule performances. Forms issued by the Vermont office, for instance, say a
standard visa request takes 30 to 70 days, while a telephone recording says it
takes 70 to 100 days. But the center is now processing applications filed in
March, more than 120 days ago.

"We were not notified it would take 120 days," said Dr. Mark P. Malkovich III,
general director for the Newport Music Festival, which had to scratch two
musicians from its calendar when they did not get their visas in time. "But if
you send it in too early, they would send it back. It really is a Catch-22
situation."

Visa applications are handled in two stages. First the immigration service
approves or denies requests for visas filed by petitioning groups in the United
States, then United States Embassies conduct a review, sometimes interviewing
the applicant or carrying out further security checks.

Arts groups complain that there are no uniform standards for decisions on visas.
When Mr. Serdar, 35, the Yugoslavia pianist, applied to perform at the Carmel
Bach Festival in California, his application was rejected because it was deemed
that the festival had not proved his artistic standing, even though it had
submitted the requisite newspaper clippings and recommendations.

"The point was that decision making is taken on by people who don't know what
they are talking about," said Nana Faridany, the festival's artistic
administrator.

"Every time they said something different," said Alice Loeske, an agent for Toto
La Momposina, a Colombian singer and dancer whose visa was held up in the
spring. "I kept getting conflicting signals, but the long and the short of it
was that I missed three dates," including her Los Angeles debut in the Congo
Room. These experiences are already have a chilling effect on some programs.
"Right now, if my music director told me he wanted to invite this great
violinist from Slovakia, I would say, 'Wow, that could be hard,' " said Andrew
Berryhill, executive director of the Duluth Superior Symphony Orchestra, in
Minnesota. "If we are saying, 'Sorry, we are just hiring Americans,' then that
is a real loss."

In some cases presenters have chosen not to challenge visa denials, particularly
in the cases of men from countries known to have links with terrorism. Under new
State Department rules, they must have a 20-day security check at the end of the
immigration approval process.

For example, when visas were denied to four unmarried male members of an Iranian
spiritual bodybuilding group, the directors of the Silk Road Project-Smithsonian
Folklife Festival chose not to challenge the decision. "We didn't protest that
one because we know the concern," said Dr. Richard Kennedy, deputy director of
the Smithsonian's Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.

At United States Consulates abroad as well as at immigration centers, arts
groups are dealing with new rules and in some cases with old rules being applied
in new ways.

For the first time in 15 years, Russian members of the American-Russian Youth
Orchestra were almost denied visas by a United States Consulate in Moscow on the
eve of a meeting there between President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin.
Just days before the orchestra was due in New York, the visa crisis was
resolved.

But Dr. Mikhail Malkovsky, a Russian mathematician and chairman of the
mathematics department at Moscow State University, was not so lucky, said Edward
Lozansky, who had invited him to speak at a forum in Washington about an
international graduate program based in Moscow. Dr. Malkovsky was twice rejected
by the American embassy, Mr. Lozansky said, on grounds that "they didn't think
he was competent to talk on these issues."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from "The Ta'ziyeh of the Children of Moslem" presented
by an Iranian troup this month in Lincoln Center Festival 2002. Ten of the 28
members of the troupe were denied visas to enter the United States. (Michael
Nagle/The New York Times)(pg. E5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 31, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latino Population Growth Is Widespread, Study Says

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 619 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


The Hispanic population has spread out across the nation faster and farther than
any previous wave of immigrants, with the movement of Latinos from immigrant
gateways into the heartland and suburbs possibly exceeding that of European
immigrants in the early 20th century and of African-Americans moving from the
Deep South in the period before World War II, according to a study released
today.

The study, a joint project by the Pew Hispanic Center and the Brookings
Institution Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy, confirms growth patterns
defined in initial 2000 census data and elaborates on patterns of dispersion.

The findings indicate that while metropolitan areas like New York, Los Angeles
and Miami still accounted for the largest increases in the number of Latinos
from 1980 to 2000, smaller metropolitan areas charted a faster rate of growth.

More than half of Latinos now live in the suburbs, and many migrants in new
destinations are skipping city centers and heading straight to jobs and housing
in outlying areas.

In addition, the study indicates that the expansive growth over the past two
decades will probably continue because the vast majority of migrants are men who
will bring women and children to the population base in the coming years.

"This confirms that what we're seeing is not one trend replacing another, not
urban being replaced with rural or suburban," said Roberto Suro, director of the
Pew Hispanic Center and co-author of the study. "What we're seeing is several
trends expanding at once and that each of them have potential staying power."

The study separated population growth into four distinct patterns: established
metropolitan areas, new destinations, fast-growing hubs and small places.

Hispanics continued to flock to traditional immigrant gateways like New York,
Los Angeles and Chicago from 1980 to 2000, boosting populations for cities that
otherwise would have had stagnant or lowered numbers. But in general the cities
with the largest, most well-established Latino base populations experienced the
slowest rate of growth.

Newer hubs, most in Texas and California, typically grew by more than 200
percent over the course of the study, as areas like Dallas, Houston, Phoenix and
Sacramento became thriving gateways for new groups of immigrants.

But by far the fastest rate of growth occurred in new destinations, especially
in smaller metropolitan areas with virtually no Latino population 20 years ago.
The study identified 51 new growth areas scattered across 35 states. The surging
areas covered every region of the country including cities like Nashville,
Providence, R.I., Salt Lake City and West Palm Beach, Fla.

Of the new destinations, 18 areas experienced what the study's authors
characterized as hypergrowth of more than 300 percent. Atlanta, for instance,
had a Latino population in 1980 of just over 24,000, roughly 1 percent of the
population. By 2000 the population had grown by 995 percent to 268,851, 7
percent of the city's overall population.

In North Carolina, the population of the Raleigh-Durham area ballooned more than
1,000 percent, from 5,670 in 1980 to 93,868 in 2000.

The rapid growth in newer destinations is largely attributed to men migrating to
expanding cities in search of jobs. Because many of these men are single or have
left their families behind temporarily, the ratio of Latino men to women in new
growth areas is highly skewed.

The national average of adult men to women in the general population is roughly
96 to 100. In Atlanta there were 169 Hispanic men to every 100 Hispanic women in
2000. Several other new growth cities experienced similar ratios. It is an
imbalance that virtually guarantees future growth, researchers said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 3, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

JUDGE ORDERS U.S. TO RELEASE NAMES OF 9/11 DETAINEES

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2


A federal judge ruled today that the Bush administration had no right to conceal
the identities of hundreds of people arrested after the Sept. 11 terror attacks,
and she ordered that most of their names be released within 15 days.

The ruling by Judge Gladys Kessler of Federal District Court dealt a significant
setback to the government's policy of secret detentions, mostly of immigrants,
in connection with the Sept. 11 investigation. Judge Kessler rejected the
Justice Department's arguments that disclosure of the names would impede its
investigation of terrorists.

She said that while it was the obligation of the executive branch to ensure the
physical security of American citizens, "the first priority of the judicial
branch must be to ensure that our government always operates within the
statutory and constitutional constraints which distinguish a democracy from a
dictatorship."

"Unquestionably," she added, "the public's interest in learning the identity of
those arrested and detained is essential to verifying whether the government is
operating within the bounds of law."

Judge Kessler's opinion in the case, which had been brought by a broad coalition
of groups, including some civil liberties organizations, was the latest ruling
issued in the handful of cases now making their way up the federal court system
challenging some of the government's policies put in place after the Sept. 11
attacks.

In some cases, the courts have been receptive to the government's arguments, but
in several others judges have resisted claims of broad executive authority.

In one case, both a district court and an appeals court panel ruled against the
government in Michigan, saying the Justice Department could not close
deportation proceedings to the public and the news media.

The government gained a victory elsewhere in the courts this week when a federal
judge ruled that the more than 560 prisoners detained at the Guantanamo Naval
Base in Cuba were beyond the reach of United States courts.

Justice Department officials will probably ask a federal appeals court to delay
Judge Kessler's ruling from taking effect while it appeals, but officials there
said today that they had not yet decided to do so. Nevertheless, Robert
McCallum, the assistant attorney general for the civil division, had harsh words
for Judge Kessler's ruling.

"The Department of Justice believes today's ruling impedes one of the most
important federal law enforcement investigations in history, harms our efforts
to bring to justice those responsible for the heinous attacks of Sept. 11, and
increases the risk of future terrorist threats to our nation," Mr. McCallum
said.

He said the F.B.I. and the department's criminal division "firmly believe that
the information sought by the plaintiffs, if released, could jeopardize the
investigation and provide valuable information to terrorists seeking to cause
even greater harm to the safety of the American people."

The opinion noted that the government said on Nov. 5 that it had detained 1,182
people in connection with the Sept. 11 investigation. But Judge Kessler
suggested that the numbers were confusing and that the Justice Department has
never given a full accounting of who had been arrested.

"As of this moment," she said, "the public does not know how many persons the
government has arrested and detained as part of its Sept. 11 investigation, nor
does it know who most of them are, where they are and whether they are
represented by counsel."

Amid the uncertainty, the judge noted that the Justice Department had provided
some numbers, notably that 751 people were arrested for immigration violations.
As of June 13, only 74 remained in custody, the rest having been released or
deported.

That is the category most directly affected by Judge Kessler's order. If her
ruling stands, the government would have to release the names of at least those
751, even those who have left the country.

The government has also said that it arrested and charged 129 people on federal
criminal charges and that it has already released those names.

The last category encompasses people arrested as material witnesses. The
government has never disclosed the number or identities of those people but it
has been estimated to be about two dozen, most of whom have been released. Judge
Kessler asked the government to provide further evidence why the names of
materials witnesses should not be released.

The suit asking for disclosure of the immigration detainees' names was brought
by 22 advocacy groups, including the Center for National Security Studies, the
American Civil Liberties Union, the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the
Press, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee and People for the
American Way Foundation.

Kate Martin, of the Center for National Security Studies and the lead lawyer for
those challenging the government's policy, called the ruling "a vindication of
our basic liberties and a demonstration that the courts are there to stop
government abuses."

Ms. Martin said it showed that the events of Sept 11 "may not be used as an
excuse to suspend basic rights."

Although most of the people who would be affected are no longer in custody, she
said, the ruling still has great value.

"It will prevent the government from doing this again," she said. "Moreover, it
will give us the information to evaluate how these people were treated and
whether this was a random roundup of Arabs and Muslims or a legitimate targeted
investigation of terrorism as the government has claimed."

The Justice Department had argued that the disclosure of the names of those
arrested for immigration violations would hinder the investigation. It would,
they said, reduce the inclination of detainees to help authorities because the
terrorist groups would intimidate or cut off contact with them once their names
were known. Judge Kessler said that argument was unpersuasive since the
terrorist groups must already know who was arrested as those in custody have
always been free to disclose their situation to the public.

Judge Kessler dismissed as too speculative the government's argument that the
release of the names would allow terrorist groups to track the progress of its
investigation. The government put forward a so-called "mosaic theory" of the
investigation, arguing that there are bits of information like the names of the
detainees that may seem useless by themselves but can form part of a larger,
revealing picture.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has been the most vocal defender of the
government's refusal to identify everyone who had been arrested. He has
repeatedly said he was prevented from disclosing the names because it would
violate the privacy of those arrested.

Judge Kessler said that the government might ask detainees if any wanted their
name excluded from the list and that if any asked for confidentiality, it would
be respected.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wave of Pupils Lacking English Strains Schools

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1455 words

DATELINE: MAGNOLIA, N.C.


A wave of immigrants in the last 10 years, particularly in rural areas far from
traditional immigration hubs, has left school districts across the country
desperately short of people qualified to teach them English, school and
government officials say.

The number of students with limited English skills, most of them Hispanic, has
doubled, to five million in the last decade, data from the United States
Department of Education show. That is more than four times the rate for the
general student population, according to the National Clearinghouse for English
Language Acquisition, a federally financed nonprofit organization.

The number of qualified teachers for bilingual or English-as-a-second-language
classes -- already in chronic short supply -- has not kept pace. Market Data
Retrieval, a group that keeps national education statistics, has counted 50,000
such teachers in the United States, or one for every 100 students with limited
English skills.

If students with limited English skills were to be taught in classes of the
average national size -- about 17 pupils per teacher -- up to 290,000 teachers
would be needed for them, said Dr. Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, a Harvard education
professor and an expert on immigrant children.

"We are now in the largest wave of immigration in the history of the United
States," Dr. Suarez-Orozco said. "This is not just a New York issue, or a Boston
issue, or a Los Angeles issue," Dr. Suarez-Orozco said. "It's a national issue."

The need for teachers of English as a second language has grown most rapidly in
school districts in the South, Midwest and Northwest. North Carolina, whose
farms and factories have drawn thousands of Latino immigrants in recent years,
has had the fastest growth of students with limited English skills. The number
of such students in the state has more than quintupled since 1993, to 52,500
from 8,900. The populations of such students in Idaho, Nebraska, Alabama,
Tennessee, South Carolina and Georgia have at least tripled since 1993.

Many of these districts, particularly those in rural areas with few native-born
bilingual residents, are offering bonuses, loans and other incentives to
teachers, and in some cases poaching from neighboring districts.

"Educators have started to realize that this is not just a blip on the map,"
said Delia Pompa, the executive director of the National Association of
Bilingual Education.

The urgency of their searches is compounded this year by new federal legislation
requiring students with limited English skills to take standardized assessment
tests by next spring. Most states now exempt such students, and including their
scores with those of other students could drag down a school's performance, with
potentially dire consequences. The new legislation, for example, allows parents
beginning this fall to remove their children from schools designated as failing,
moving state and local dollars with them.

School recruiters interviewed in Washington State, Wisconsin, North Carolina and
Kansas said that while many regular teaching vacancies can attract 100
applicants or more, openings for teachers of English as a second language, or
E.S.L., rarely attract more than one or two.

Rural communities and small cities are devising ingenious ways to recruit
teachers. Some districts in North Carolina try to persuade landlords and utility
companies to waive deposits for them. A district in Utah offers $2,000 bonuses.
Kentucky forgives some student loans. Recruiters from Denver have trekked to
Mexico.

Many districts have also designed "grow our own" projects to train high school
and college students, teaching aides and even immigrant parents to teach English
as a second language and, more rarely, bilingual classes.

Students of English as a second language study subjects like math, science and
social studies in English, often in regular classrooms, while learning English
intensively for a few periods a day, tutored in individual or small-group
pullout sessions. Students in bilingual classes are taught the subjects in their
native languages. Because it is difficult to find people able to teach subjects
in other languages outside the nation's immigrant hubs, few states offer true
bilingual education.

Carol Theesfeld, the director of English as a second language and bilingual
education for the Kenosha, Wis., school district, says she never goes on a
vacation -- particularly to the Southwest -- without her business cards.

Ms. Theesfeld, whose district's population of students with limited English
skills doubled in the last four years, to more than 400, says she approaches
college-age people she meets and asks if they study education. "You never know,"
she said, chuckling about her desperation. "You might find a teacher this way."

Ms. Theesfeld also recruits at more than a dozen education conferences, at
universities in Wisconsin and Illinois, at ethnic festivals like Milwaukee's
annual Mexican Fiesta and at restaurants.

Occasionally, some Wisconsin districts have created tensions by poaching
teachers from neighboring districts, said Narciso Aleman, a professor of
curriculum and instruction at the University of Wisconsin at Whitewater who
maintains close ties with recruiters in surrounding districts.

"There are raids between districts," Dr. Aleman said. "The recruiters would
offer better pay, shorter hours, smaller classes, all-expense-paid trips to
national E.S.L. conferences -- anything they can to attract certified teachers."

Here in Duplin County, N.C., Hispanic immigrant children make up nearly a third
of the 700 students at Rose Hill-Magnolia Elementary School, a one-story brick
building next to a turkey processing plant. Their parents have come from Mexico
and Honduras to pick tobacco, feed and breed the hogs and pack turkey meat.

"Some people here think they shouldn't be here and let's send them back to where
they came from," said Darrell Grubbs, the principal. "But the reality is, they
are going to stay. And if they are going to stay, we've got to educate their
children."

In explaining this point to resentful residents, Mr. Grubbs does not cite the
United States Supreme Court's 1982 decision in Plyler v. Doe, in which the court
ruled that public schools must educate all children, whether they are in the
country legally or not. He simply says that these children are going to enter
the work force some day and pay "your Social Security."

Seeing the increasing likelihood that every teacher at some point will encounter
a student for whom English is a second language, a small number of principals
have required all their teachers to take some E.S.L. education classes.

Close to $400 million was funneled in 2000 through the federal Office of
Bilingual Education, since renamed the Office of English Language Acquisition,
to help districts put candidates through college or night classes to receive
E.S.L. or bilingual licenses. This year, the office plans to hand out $665
million in grants.

The University of Wisconsin at Whitewater, along with its surrounding school
districts, is one recipient. Its "grow our own" project has recruited dozens of
teacher's aides already working in the districts, most lacking college degrees,
to enroll in tuition-free classes to earn a bachelor's degree and an E.S.L.
license. The school also courts local high school and college students showing
an interest in this kind of education.

The strategy might just reduce the high teacher turnover rates, administrators
from the nearby Janesville school district say. Rural and small-town school
districts, they say, have found it hard to beat the excitement offered by bigger
cities like Madison and Milwaukee.

In Fort Atkinson, Wis., a small town tucked in soybean and corn fields, Vicki
Wright, the district's English-as-a-second-language coordinator, answers
telephone calls frequently from panicky teachers encountering
non-English-speaking students for the first time.

Ms. Wright, who was a Peace Corps volunteer in the 1970's, recalled some of the
questions: " 'How do I grade them? They don't speak English.' 'What kind of
assignment should I give them?' 'How do I modify my tests for them?' "

She said she also tries to correct a misunderstanding among teachers, most of
whom grew up in a place previously populated almost exclusively by descendants
of Polish, German and Scandinavian immigrants. The district, which had eight
non-English-speaking students two years ago, has 65 today.

"The regular teachers' attitude often is, let's hand the E.S.L. student to the
E.S.L. teacher and say, 'Here is an E.S.L. student. Now fix him.' " Ms. Wright
said.

"Now, what would you do if he were your own child?" she asked. "They're not just
the E.S.L. teachers' kids. They're everybody's kids."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gina Lesnik teaching Hispanic children at Rose Hill-Magnolia in
North Carolina, a state with a high rate of students with limited English
skills.; With her finger as a guide, a student at the Rose Hill-Magnolia
Elementary School in Rose Hill, N.C., learns to read English. (Photographs by
Nicole Cappello for The New York Times); Christina Summers, a student at the
University of Wisconsin at Whitewater, discusses ink blots at Purdy Elementary
in Fort Atkinson. (Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. A9) Chart/Map:
"Teaching English"Although California, Texas and New York still have the most
students who need to be taught English as a second language, many other states
have recently experienced much larger percentage changes. Map of the United
States highlights students with limited english proficiency by state.
(percentage change from '92-'93 to '99-'00) *Earliest available data from West
Virginia was '94-'95. (Source: U.S. Department of Education)(pg. A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Cut Into Income In New York, Census Finds

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words


The surprising drop in median income in New York City that has puzzled
demographers studying the results of the 2000 census appears to be traceable in
large part to immigration, according to new census data that show income
declines concentrated heavily in neighborhoods in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens
that have become magnets for new arrivals.

The data, released yesterday, indicate that median household incomes rose across
most of Manhattan in the 90's, with especially big leaps in places including
TriBeCa and parts of Harlem. Simultaneously, drops occurred in much of the
Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens, often in neighborhoods like Jackson Heights and
eastern Flushing, where longtime residents have moved out and been replaced by
immigrants.

A similar pattern was visible in New Jersey. The biggest percentage jump in
median household income occurred in Hunterdon County, a heavily white county at
the heart of what has been called the state's flourishing wealth belt.
Meanwhile, median income dropped in Newark, Paterson and Trenton, and in smaller
cities where less educated, less skilled immigrants have moved in.

Everywhere, the biggest gains in income were among whites, often in places
populated heavily by people working in businesses like finance, pharmaceuticals
and telecommunications. The biggest income increases among Asians were in
suburban Middlesex and Somerset Counties in New Jersey, which have attracted
large numbers of highly skilled and highly educated South Asians.

Blacks did less well. Although the median household incomes for all groups in
New Jersey rose, when adjusted for inflation, the median for blacks alone rose
by only 1.1 percent, to $38,513. The median for whites alone rose by 5.1 percent
to $59,153; the median for Asians rose by 3.8 percent to $72,145; and the median
for Latinos rose by 1.1 percent to $39,609.

"The income data are the result of an economy that has reinvented itself during
the 1990's," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "This was really the rise of
the new information-age, knowledge-based economy, in conjunction with the
sustained decline of old-line manufacturing.

"That change has placed a premium on education and skill levels, and people who
have those attributes have been rewarded greatly. At the same time, with the
decline in manufacturing, those who have just a high school degree have been
penalized economically. So we have that growing disparity linked to education
level. And that has a racial component to it, because blacks and Latinos have
lower levels of educational attainment."

In many cases, the richest communities remained the towns and neighborhoods that
had been the richest in 1990: mostly white suburbs like Scarsdale, where the
median household income rose by 16.6 percent to $182,792; and a handful of
mostly white census tracts on the Upper East Side of Manhattan between Fifth and
Park Avenues, where the medians approach $200,000.

Among the poorest places in the two states were many upstate New York cities,
including Ithaca, Buffalo, Utica, Syracuse, Binghamton and Jamestown, where
median household incomes were between $21,400 and $25,850. In New York City, the
20 neighborhoods with the lowest median income were concentrated in the Bronx
and Brooklyn. They included Coney Island, with a median of $14,908.

But the biggest percentage jumps in median income in New York City occurred in a
wide variety of places, illustrating the breadth of the neighborhood revival
that took place in the 1990's. They ranged from struggling Bronx areas like
Highbridge and Mott Haven to St. Nicholas Terrace in Harlem and gentrifying
districts in Manhattan and Brooklyn like SoHo and Carroll Gardens.

"The rich got richer, Manhattan got better and immigrant neighborhoods had an
income loss," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College who
analyzed the new census data relating to income for The New York Times. "The
people who are living there now are making less money than the people who were
living there 10 years ago."

The data released yesterday, which covered only New York and New Jersey, are
just the latest among the results of the 2000 census, which the Census Bureau is
releasing over several years. Preliminary income data, broken down only by
county, came out in May. Those numbers had puzzled some analysts, who had
expected to see the benefits of the late 1990's boom more broadly shared.

Similar patterns had also surfaced in the income data for other Northeastern
cities and parts of Southern California, leading some demographers and
economists to speculate that immigration might be a factor: that is, as low-wage
workers were pouring in from places like Central America and China, native-born
people and more established immigrants were moving up and out.

The Census Bureau is scheduled to release detailed data for other states,
including Connecticut, in coming weeks.

According to Professor Beveridge's analysis of the New York and New Jersey
numbers, median income rose in nearly every part of Manhattan, but most steeply
in places like Clinton, Little Italy and much of downtown, where affluent whites
have moved in. In Harlem, the median rose most markedly in the St. Nicholas
Terrace section, where it climbed by 40.6 percent, to $24,031.

Chinatown, a landing pad for less educated and newly arrived Chinese immigrants,
was one of the few Manhattan neighborhoods in which the median household income
dropped. For Asians alone, it dropped by nearly 14 percent to $18,629.
Elsewhere, median household incomes rose significantly on the Upper West Side,
the West Village, the East Village and Kips Bay.

The growing affluence of Manhattan and its financial sector seemed to spill over
to nearby neighborhoods in Brooklyn, like Brooklyn Heights and Boerum Hill, and
to some communities across the Hudson River in New Jersey. The overall median
household income for Hoboken leaped by 38.2 percent to $62,550, with the
increase even higher among whites alone.

Outside New York City, some of the biggest increases were in growing communities
on the exurban fringe, like Far Hills in Somerset County, N.J., and Rumson in
Monmouth County, N.J. The increases were especially striking among affluent
suburban whites. The median household income for whites alone in Scarsdale
jumped by 49.9 percent, to $194,597.

Some of the biggest declines in median household income among whites occurred in
cities that many whites had abandoned in recent years, like Asbury Park and East
Orange, N.J., and in New York City neighborhoods like Flatbush, Brownsville and
Bedford-Stuyvesant, where whites were once dominant, but are now a tiny
minority.

Similarly, the highest black median incomes were in communities where blacks
were in a small fraction of the population, like Marlboro and West Windsor
townships in New Jersey. But the median household incomes among blacks were also
relatively high in Nassau and Suffolk Counties in New York and Middlesex and
Burlington Counties in New Jersey, all of which have significant black
populations.

In New York City, the neighborhoods with the highest median income among blacks
still included Rosedale, Laurelton and Cambria Heights, three middle-class black
areas in Queens where black incomes have tended to outstrip white. The black
medians there had dropped slightly, but were still relatively high, at $64,391
in Rosedale, $62,801 in Laurelton and $59,144 in Cambria Heights.

Similarly, the highest household incomes among Latinos were in places with
relatively few Latinos, including Scarsdale and the Upper East Side of
Manhattan. The lowest were in upstate New York cities like Utica, Syracuse and
Buffalo. In New York City, the neighborhoods with the lowest Latino median
incomes were all in the Bronx and Brooklyn.

In Hunts Point, for example, where immigrants from the Dominican Republic and
elsewhere have been moving into places that Puerto Ricans left behind, the
median income among Latinos rose by nearly 10 percent, to $15,529. But it still
remained among the lowest in the city.

The lowest median incomes for Asians in New York City were not only in Chinatown
and Little Italy, but also Sunset Park and Borough Park in Brooklyn. The
neighborhoods with the highest include Bellerose and Floral Park in Queens.

Professor Hughes, who also looked at the education data for New Jersey, said he
was struck by two things: that 62 percent of all adult Asians in New Jersey had
at least a bachelor's degree, a figure he called "extraordinarily high," and
that 12.5 percent of adult Latinos in the state had a bachelor's degree, a
percentage he called surprisingly low.

The average for all adults in New Jersey is 29.8 percent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "A Mixed Picture on Income" A look at 2000 census data
released yesterday for New York and New Jersey. Figures and maps show data for
income by race and ethnicity, and compare them with the last census. Percentage
change in median household income, 90 to 00 Median household income 2000 Chart
tracks income divided into race for most of New York and New Jersey. (pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 7, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Language

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 121 words


To the Editor:

Re "Latvia Struggles to Include People of Its Soviet Past" (news article, Aug.
4):

Proficiency in language seems to be a standard criterion for citizenship
anywhere; at least my Latvian parents had to prove that they spoke English when
they became citizens of the United States.

They were refugees of the Soviet Union's Russification policy, under which
learning Russian seemed to be the least problematic issue; if you were an ethnic
Latvian, you were subject to deportation to Siberian death camps, forced
emigration or outright murder.

That was the only option offered to one in five Latvians. Three-quarters of my
family died that way. The rest learned Russian real fast.

ILZE EARNER
New York, Aug. 4, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 8, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: New Curbs Urged For Terror Groups

BYLINE:  By Randal C. Archibold (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 95 words


Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democratic candidate for governor, said that if he won
election he would push for a state law placing immigration and business
restrictions on people associated with a State Department list of terrorist
organizations. Mr. Cuomo spoke to reporters in Manhattan by telephone from
Israel, where he is traveling. He stopped short of saying Yasir Arafat should be
barred from the United States, saying it was for the secretary of state to
decide. Mr. Cuomo had earlier called the Palestinian Authority a terrorist
organization.   Randal C. Archibold (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 9, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dead End for Cambodians Who Grew So American

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 968 words

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia


On the basketball court, they seem like just a couple of young American guys in
big sneakers and baggy shorts, part of a pickup game on the banks of the Mekong
River.

"Back to visit your homeland?" someone asks when they say they were born in
Cambodia. "Are you going to stay or just passing through?"

With all the shouting and shoving on the court, no one quite catches their reply
and that's probably fine with them.

The answer is: whether they like it or not, they are here in Cambodia to stay.

Just a few weeks ago they arrived in shackles from the United States, deported
along with four other men from the land they called home because they had broken
the law.

Embraced 20 years ago as refugees from the massacres that swept Cambodia, they
had grown up, found jobs and started families in the United States -- as
American, it seemed, as any other immigrants. Cambodia was a dim childhood
memory.

But like most of the 145,000 Cambodians who found refuge in the United States
during the 1980's and 90's, they had never gotten around to filing the paperwork
to become citizens.

"I just put it off," said one of the deportees, Sor Vann, 34, a heavy equipment
operator from Houston. "Next month, next month. That was my big mistake, my real
big mistake. I should, I should have done it. I should."

In March, Cambodia became one of the last nations to agree to accept its
citizens affected by a United States law that calls for the deportation of
non-Americans who are convicted of aggravated felonies.

Most immigrants affected by the law are not aware that it exists until they are
found guilty of a crime and discover that they face deportation once they have
served their sentences.

In a tangled legal case, Mr. Sor Vann said he had been convicted of indecent
exposure for urinating in public, then of violating his parole, and had ended up
serving four years in prison before he was released.

"The I.N.S. was waiting for me right there in front of the walls to pick me up,"
he said. "I called my common-law wife and told her, 'They're going to deport me
tomorrow.' She said, 'What? Tomorrow? That quick?' She couldn't even come to see
me before I left because it wasn't a visitors' day."

He had no chance to say goodbye to his two stepchildren or to his own two
children, who live with his former wife. "I told my common-law wife to tell them
that I got deported to Cambodia and they can't do anything to help but feel
sorry for me," he said.

There are 1,400 more Cambodians in the United States who have been marked for
deportation, most of whom have already served their prison terms and have been
released.

For all of them, this exile to what they regard as a foreign land resonates with
their earlier uprooting, when they fled the brutal Khmer Rouge, under whose rule
in the late 1970's more than a million people died.

Many had left Cambodia as small children and no longer speak the language. They
may find the transition as difficult as it was for many older refugees in the
United States who were unable to learn English or to assimilate in their new
land.

"These guys are not Cambodians," said Chhang Song, a former legislator who is
part of an informal group of Cambodians and foreigners who are trying to help
the newcomers. "They know life in the refugee camps. They know life in the
United States. So coming back here is like coming as refugees again."

Some, like Touch Rin Svay, 22, a United States Marine in Portland, Me., were
born in the refugee camps in Thailand and had never even seen Cambodia. In May,
he was convicted of manslaughter for causing an automobile crash, while driving
drunk, that killed his younger sister.

Once he completes a term of 18 months in prison, he will join the deportation
list. Immigration experts say it is unlikely that he will ever be allowed to
re-enter the United States.

That is a desperate feeling, Mr. Sor Vann said, adding, "I still feel like I'm
an American." He was 11 years old and an orphan when he left Cambodia, tagging
along with other refugees as they picked their way through minefields to cross
the border to safety in Thailand.

"I'm just lost here," he said. "I haven't been back in 20-plus years. I don't
know how I'm going to make it. I don't know nothing or nobody here. I'm just
homeless. How am I going to get a job? How am I going to get a living?"

When he was in prison, his common-law wife, who was also born in Cambodia,
visited him every week, he said. When he was deported, she promised to follow
and begin a new life with him.

"This is the hard part," Mr. Sor Vann said when he was asked about these plans.
"When I got here, I called her again and she said, well, she's sorry, she can't
come down because of the kids. She can't do it. She told me, just go on with my
life."

So he finds himself back in the land he fled as a boy, once again bereft of
family, carrying with him even fewer possessions than he carried as a refugee.

As the deportations continue in the months to come, the Cambodian government
will find itself burdened with hundreds of people like this, lost, jobless, many
of them unable to function in the Cambodian language, all with criminal records.

The hard cases among them could become a menace, possibly joining criminal
groups or forming their own gangs, Mr. Chhang Song said.

"The country is small; the city is small," he said. "It's going to be hard to
absorb all these people. It will be a crisis for Cambodian society to handle it.
I don't think any preparations have been made for this."

On the basketball court, the young deportees lost themselves for a while in the
game, back home again with a couple of foreign travelers and two resident
Americans.

"They're pretty good players," one of the Americans said afterward.

But few Cambodians play basketball, and the two young men said they did not know
much about soccer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sor Vann, a 34-year-old Cambodian who is an unwilling
repatriate. (Andy Eames for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants See Path to Riches in Phone Cards

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1777 words


Sitting behind a smudged glass counter in his Chinatown shop, briskly sticking
personal identification numbers on the backs of prepaid phone cards, Nong Hui
Jiang does not immediately bring to mind the image of a telecom mogul.

But Mr. Jiang, an immigrant from Fujian Province in China, has ambitions. In 12
years in the United States, he has gone from selling phone cards on the street
to distributing as many as 20,000 cards a day to his own network of immigrant
retailers. He produces a private label phone card and now owns his own
connection, or switch, into the global phone network.

Mr. Jiang, 39, has accomplished this despite knowing limited English.

"I'm going to go step by step to become a big company," he vowed through a
translator, sounding every bit the budding capitalist. "If I need people to
speak English, I'll hire them."

He is hardly the exception in the cutthroat world of prepaid phone cards. The
business may be driven by the seemingly infinite desire of homesick immigrants
to stay in constant touch with the family they left behind. But it has also,
improbably, become a career ladder for immigrants with as little experience and
as much bravura as Mr. Jiang.

The phone card business profited from the expansion of the world's
telecommunications networks over the last 15 years, which left big carriers with
spare capacity. Now, selling cheap talk-time minutes for calls to target
countries has become a major industry, with estimated revenues of $2 billion a
year. Industry analysts estimate those revenues will grow at a rate of close to
50 percent a year at least until 2004. From the Chinese women who sell cards at
sidewalk tables to the Indian entrepreneurs who supply them, thousands of
immigrants are employed in the retail sale, distribution, packaging and
technology of prepaid cards.

In five years, prepaid phone cards have transformed immigrant life. It no longer
matters if a newcomer lacks the credit history to get long-distance service on a
home phone -- or, indeed, lacks both home and phone. The card, now ubiquitous in
immigrant neighborhoods across the country, is about equal opportunity
communication.

New York City remains the biggest market, where 82 minutes of talk time to
Kuwait can be bought for $10, or 90 minutes to the Dominican Republic for $5.
And the cards that are bought traverse many different immigrant worlds on their
way to the customer.

The traditional practice of immigrant entrepreneurs was to find a niche, as a
group, and dominate it, as Koreans do in New York's nail salon business and as
Indians do in the motel business in regions like central New Jersey and the
South. But in the case of phone cards, everybody is in the game together. A card
sold in the Bronx is likely to have had its retail rates set by a Dominican
company, distributed by a Cuban or Pakistani company and sold in an Arab- or
Korean-owned deli.

Wholesalers, many of them Indian-owned companies, buy minutes from carriers like
AT&T and resell them through middlemen to customers in the form of a phone card.

What is actually sold is not the decorated cardboard "card" itself, but the PIN
that is printed on it. The customer redeems the minutes on the card by dialing
an access number and punching in the PIN and the desired number. The per-minute
cost of a call varies according to the country called and the rates associated
with the individual card.

Laurette Veres, president of Intele-Card News magazine, estimated that
immigrants make up at least 40 percent of those working in the prepaid card
industry.

"If it's not the owner of the company, then certainly it's the personnel who
handle their distribution into the targeted ethnic markets," she said. "The
phone card business is especially friendly to immigrant entrepreneurs, because
the prominent users are also first-generation Americans or immigrants."

The magnitude of the business is astounding. On any single day, according to
industry reports, millions of people use the cards and spend many more millions
of minutes chatting away with the folks back home.

Last Sunday was typical. In the New York metropolitan area, owners of prepaid
cards produced by the IDT Corporation made 414,000 calls to Mexico, 310,000 to
the Dominican Republic, and 389,000 calls to Guatemala, Colombia and El Salvador
combined.

The list goes on, but those were the top five countries called on IDT cards on
just that one average day. The actual number of calls that immigrants made that
day using phone cards was undoubtedly much higher. IDT, which sells 15 million
cards a month and is one of the nation's biggest providers, is still only one of
hundreds of prepaid card sellers. Other companies, including MCI and AT&T, would
not provide statistics on their call volumes.

Demand for prepaid cards that can be used to call overseas shows no sign of
slowing down, said Howard S. Jonas, the chairman of IDT. "People keep coming to
this country," he said, "so the ethnic sales keep going up and up."

That was Mr. Jiang's view after coming to New York in 1990. He said he saw how
lonely Fujianese worked night and day, lived in shared apartments with no phone
and had no diversion other than calling home to chat for hours with family.

"I just knew the phone card market had to boom," Mr. Jiang said. "And I knew the
Chinese would keep coming."

His specialty is selling discount minutes for Fujian Province, the source of the
greatest number of new Chinese immigrants. This week's special was a prepaid
card that offered 500 minutes to Fujian Province, near the Taiwan Strait, for
only $10.

Despite the glut of cards with low rates to China -- dozens with dragon
decorations and scenes of rural China lay piled high in his shop -- Mr. Jiang
said his sidewalk retailers can still earn up to $4,000 a month.

Immigrant entrepreneurs make their money off phone cards at various stages, from
selling bulk minutes to printing cards to retailing. Profit margins narrow from
an average of 30 percent for the wholesaler to as little as 1 percent in a
competitive retail market, but the volume is high.

"It's the shop owner who usually makes the most amount of money, generally on
commissions," said Haris A. Syed, the Pakistani-born president of 9278
Communications, a Bronx-based company that produces and distributes cards aimed
at immigrant markets. "But it's still so competitive that they often will sell a
card cheaper than its face value. A $10 card will be sold for $9."

Mr. Syed is an example of how phone cards can change lives. He said he came to
the United States 11 years ago as a high school student and, after graduation,
borrowed against his credit cards to buy a switch, a piece of communications
equipment that routes calls.

Now 27, he has joined forces with an Indian-born entrepreneur who is also 27 to
build 9278 Communications. The company sells 200 different prepaid cards and
reported income last year of $1.9 million.

In its early years, the business had a whiff of the unsavory about it. Carriers
often sold minutes on credit, tempting some phone card producers to sell the
cards, pocket the cash and disappear before paying the carriers.

A largely cash business, it also attracted the Mafia in the late 1990's, federal
investigators said. And state prosecutors also regularly accuse smaller prepaid
phone card companies of promising more minutes than their cards deliver or
failing to disclose all the charges and fees so the buyer ends up with far fewer
minutes of talk time than expected.

To market to a diverse mix of immigrants, card producers are constantly
fine-tuning their products to different calling habits and the most popular
destinations.

To sell to Mexicans from Puebla, for example, a producer may offer an
inexpensive per-minute rate to that city but add a high maintenance fee that is
charged once a week. The risk to the buyer is that a call to Mexico City or Los
Angeles may be charged at an exorbitant rate, and various fees could eat up much
of the card's value if it is not used quickly.

"If you really want to be in this business to sell telephone service, you give
the best rate to a particular city that your target market wants," said Tom
Miezejeski, a senior consultant with the Pelorus Group, a market research
company in New Jersey. "Unfortunately, it's gotten so competitive that it's
almost a game between the consumer and the actual card company over all the
service charges, maintenance fees and rounding."

Immigrant-run companies are starting to venture beyond cards to serve their own
markets. For example, Rediff.com, an Indian media and Internet company, buys
wholesale minutes from the big carriers but sells the PIN's to customers online.

It is a $15 million-a-year business, playing on Indian immigrants' strong
business and family ties back home, said Ajit Balakrishnan, the company's
chairman. "Our research shows that the typical Indian family spends $100 to $120
a month keeping in touch with people at home," he said.

People who figure out the blend of rates and fees for each card have learned
other odd bits of phone trivia about their customers. Chinese immigrants, they
say, tend to talk for hours at one time, using up a single card to avoid
surcharges. Africans, too, want a card with a lot of minutes to speak to
everyone in extended families. Mexicans look for a card that has a 1-800 access
number, apparently because many do not have phones at home. Dominicans, on the
other hand, tend to make multiple calls on a single card, so they will shop for
a card that charges the least for short calls.

"And there's no brand loyalty," added Hector Rojas, the chief operating officer
of Unitel Telecard in Queens, a phone card distributor that opened in 2000.
"People from the Dominican Republic jump around. The Yemenis -- you can come out
with a card today and tomorrow they will want something different."

Many people in the business once assumed the demand for prepaid long-distance
minutes would eventually plateau. How many hours, after all, could a homesick
immigrant spend on the phone with Mom back in Mexico or India? The answer is
apparently infinite.

Phone card suppliers say usage of minutes keeps growing. People just keep
talking.

Eduardo Perez, a factory worker who moved to New York from the Dominican
Republic 12 years ago, said he used to write letters to his mother back home.
But that was the dark ages, before phone cards.

Her expectations have changed radically. "My mom expects a call at least once
and really, a couple of times a week," he said. "She knows it's cheap and she
knows it's easy, so if I don't call all the time, she cries."

With phone cards, Mr. Perez added, there is no longer any excuse for tears.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nong Hui Jiang, right, who once sold phone cards on the street,
now runs a network of immigrant retailers. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg.
1); Bhupinder Singh, above left, uses prepaid phone cards that he buys from Sam
Chen in Flushing, Queens, to call relatives in India. Vendors throughout the
country, and especially in New York City -- like the grocery store on the corner
of Roosevelt Avenue and 76th Street in Jackson Heights, Queens -- are taking the
money-making opportunity and selling the global cards. (Photographs by Ting-Li
Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 32)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BOOKS IN BRIEF: FICTION & POETRY

BYLINE:  By Eric McHenry

SECTION: Section 7; Column 4; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 242 words


AMBER NECKLACE FROM GDANSK
Poems.
By Linda Nemec Foster.
Louisiana State University,
cloth, $22.95; paper, $15.95.

Linda Nemec Foster's name is even more multinational than it looks. "Nemec"
derives from the Polish word for "German." Foster may be a lifelong American,
but immigration and exile are, quite literally, central to her identity. She
grew up just four houses from her Polish grandparents, in a part of Cleveland
called Slavic Village. English wasn't the only language she heard at home, but
it's the only one she now speaks. As a poet with several cultural perspectives,
she sometimes spots things no one else would. A young immigrant boy in a
photograph, filling a basin at his tenement's only tap, waits "for the spigot /
to speak 'water' no matter how / turbid or unclear the response." Foster isn't
as sure-footed when she strays from the figurative language of her shorter
lyrics. Some of her descriptive passages are surprisingly static and inelegant:
"I don't mean just foreign -- but alien -- not / an immigration agency term --
but alien -- / as in Venus, Mars, something otherworldly, / exotic, not of this
planet." Several narrative prose poems read like oversized postcards, packed to
the margins with pat, dashed-off phrases: "We arrive at an older terminal --
it's crazy and hectic. Hordes of people walking around dazed and confused." The
rest of the collection is full of evidence Foster can do better than this.
Eric McHenry

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 13, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Blame Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 162 words


To the Editor:

In "Immigration Cut Into Income in New York, Census Finds" (front page, Aug. 6),
you conclude that the decline in median income in New York City during the
1990's is the result of an increase in the city's immigrant population.

But an analysis by the Economic Policy Institute shows that if the immigrant
share of the population had not grown, poverty would have been only slightly
lower and median income slightly higher.

Between 1994 and 2000, the period for which data are available, the increase in
immigration was offset by the fact that immigrants' poverty rates fell much
faster than those of natives.

The census results for New York are more likely the result of two economic
problems that hurt all less-advantaged workers, regardless of their nativity:
increased inequality and high unemployment.

JARED BERNSTEIN
JEFF CHAPMAN
Washington, Aug. 8, 2002

The writers are, respectively, senior economist and policy analyst at the
Economic Policy Institute.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 15, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iran Will Force Many Afghan Refugees to Leave by Month's End

BYLINE:  By NAZILA FATHI

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Aug. 14


Iran has announced that it will require tens of thousands of refugees to return
to Afghanistan as of Aug. 27, angering the United Nations refugee agency and
human rights groups.

The government plans to expel those who have not taken part in a census of
immigrants that began a year ago.

The government, faced with a huge influx of immigrants and finding them an
economic burden, has already refused to register children of illegal immigrants
at schools and has started fining employers who hire Afghans who do not have the
proper documents. Those who have registered for the census are still expected to
return home eventually.

Close to 2.6 million Afghans took part in the immigrant census. But the Iranian
government contends that there are at least another 250,000 who have refused to
take part in the program and must leave the country at the end of the month.
Most fled into Iran as a result of fighting and famine in Afghanistan, and the
numbers increased during the American-led campaign to oust the Taliban last
year. Last month, Iran set an Aug. 11 deadline for unregistered refugees to
leave, and then extended it to Aug. 27. After that date, they are subject to
arrest and deportation.

On Tuesday, Ahmad Hosseini, chief of the country's immigration agency, said that
Iran considered the government in Afghanistan responsible for the immigrants.
"The displaced Afghans are considered immigrants, not refugees, and so they
should return to the home country," he said.

Iran's decision has angered human rights groups as well as the United Nations
high commissioner for refugees, whose office says it has a right to review the
cases of those Iran wants to expel, based on an agreement it signed with Iran.
The agreement was signed in Geneva in April by Iran and Afghanistan and by the
refugee agency. It lays down the main legal and operational framework for the
voluntary return of Afghan refugees in Iran.

The refugee agency contends that there could be people entitled to remain as
refugees among those forced to return and that Iran's plan violates its
commitments as a member of the United Nations Refugee Convention.

Physicians for Human Rights, based in Boston, also condemned Iran's move and
said that not allowing Afghan children to go to school would be in violation of
the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Iran has
ratified.

The refugee agency's spokesman in Kabul, Maki Shinohara, told The Associated
Press that the pressures on the immigrants from Iran's government have already
prompted a large influx of Afghans back into Afghanistan and that the agency had
insufficient tents to shelter even those who have returned already.

Afghans have become a burden on Iran's stagnant economy, which has an official
unemployment rate of 14 percent. Many of the construction and agricultural jobs
are taken by Afghans, who work for lower wages and under hard conditions.

Interior Minister Abdolvahed Mousavi Lari said last week that the Afghan
immigrants benefited from the huge subsidies the government provides to hold
down the prices of basic goods, but without paying income tax as Iranian
citizens do.

Officials have also complained that the United Nations refugee agency's existing
repatriation program has failed in Iran because only 1,500 Afghans have been
returning to Afghanistan each day as opposed to the 2,500 initially expected.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 16, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Hauppauge: Immigration Scheme Reported

BYLINE:  By Marc Santora (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 139 words


The Suffolk County district attorney yesterday announced the breakup of an
immigration scheme to obtain green cards for permanent residency through false
marriages. The district attorney, Thomas J. Spota, said more arrests might come.

The ring was discovered when a county clerk noticed that the same American woman
had married nearly a dozen immigrant men. Mr. Spota said the grooms, most of
them from Nigeria, Trinidad, Grenada and Guyana, paid about $4,000 each. Among
those arrested were William Baptiste, 63, of Brooklyn, who was accused of
recruiting immigrant men, and Sheri Rudd, 36, also of Brooklyn, who was accused
of recruiting American women. Also involved, Mr. Spota said, was a former
Hempstead village justice, Lawrence J. Goldstein, who is expected to surrender
to federal authorities in Islip.   Marc Santora (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 16, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

FAMILY FARE

BYLINE:  By Laurel Graeber

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 899 words


The Fabric Of the Past

The immigrant residents of the apartments at 97 Orchard Street on the Lower East
Side passed into history long ago. But this week several of them are being
brought vividly to life onstage by a generation that never knew them.

"Home-Work: A Journey Into the Garment Industry" is the 2002 Origins Project, a
collaboration between City Lights Youth Theater and the Lower East Side Tenement
Museum. Every summer members of the theater, ages 12 to 16, write and perform a
script about those who lived at 97 Orchard Street, the museum's building. This
50-minute play centers on the family of Harris Levine, a Russian Jew who ran a
tailoring business from his home.

"Home-Work," developed with Kent Jackman, begins in a contemporary high school
as an exasperated teacher assigns Amy, a middle-class Jewish girl, and Chad, a
spoiled rich boy, a joint project on all the subjects they fight about:
"ethnicity, immigrants, clothing, history."

Amy, who is Harris's fictional great-great-granddaughter, takes Chad to visit
her centenarian Aunt Pauline, one of Harris's five children. As Pauline
reminisces, scenes from her childhood unfold. The play illuminates both the
cramped, unsanitary conditions of the era's sweatshops and the helplessness of
immigrant business owners like Harris, who could not afford to offer better.

Fortunately, both Pauline's story and Amy's end happily. But the play, directed
by Damaris Webb, also reminds the young that the struggle isn't over: the labels
they love may have been made on the other side of the world in conditions very
much like those at 97 Orchard Street.

"Home-Work," today at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. and tomorrow at 1, 2:30 and 4 p.m. at
the Tenement Museum Theater, 97 Orchard Street, Lower East Side, (212) 431-0233,
Extension 223. Tickets: $10; students and 65+, $6. Reservations advised.

Kiss Him, Kate

New York Classical Theater may inspire you to add to the list of things you
normally take to an outdoor performance in Central Park. As well as blankets and
mosquito repellent, its productions call for sneakers, or at least comfortable
shoes.

That's because the theater treats Shakespeare as a movable feast. Having
performed "Twelfth Night" this summer, it is now offering "The Taming of the
Shrew." All the park's a stage, so to speak, and though the play takes place
within three blocks of 97th Street and Central Park West, spectators get a
workout running after the actors.

This slightly abridged production (105 minutes), fast-moving in all senses, is a
delight for families. No one has to -- or can -- sit still, and if a child grows
restless, it's possible to escape discreetly. Like Petruchio, however, I'll make
a risky wager and bet that no one will. Directed by Stephen Burdman, the
production makes the most of the play's physical comedy, with lots of tumbling
in the dust and mingling with the audience, not to mention a Petruchio who
arrives for his wedding in a red jock strap worn over green shorts.

The bonus for adults, though, is that this "Shrew" makes you forget about sexism
and just revel in the fun. Garth T. Mark lets tenderheartedness shine through
Petruchio's maneuvers, so you don't feel that Kate, richly played by Nikki E.
Walker, has gotten a raw deal. Suzy Meyers gives Bianca some spunk, and Michael
Nathanson, as Tranio, conveys a world of comic meaning with his eyebrows alone.

There's also the joy of Shakespeare amid the grass and trees. As someone cried
while the audience sprinted last Sunday: "Run! This isn't the Delacorte!"

"The Taming of the Shrew," Thursdays through Sundays at 7 p.m. in Central Park,
through Aug. 25. (Enter at 97th Street and Central Park West.) Free.
Information: (212) 252-4531.

Theater in the Round

At least one show in the Fringe Festival guarantees that all its performers --
and many in the audience -- are going to have a ball. That's Eva Dean Dance's
"Bounce," and while the production offers a good time, the ball business here is
literal.

As the title implies, "Bounce" is performed with props ranging from tennis balls
to basketballs to spheres that look like playthings for sumo wrestlers.
Throughout 75 minutes, Ms. Dean and her all-female troupe use them acrobatically
to evoke a variety of phenomena, from breaking waves to binary stars to atoms
colliding in a cloud chamber.

"Bounce" is part of FringeJR, productions recommended for children 12 and under.
To a child, a ball is first and foremost a toy, and it is most fun when its
potential energy is translated into kinetic. At the performance I attended, the
young audience threatened to doze during the more cerebral moments but was
wildly enthusiastic during pieces like "Romp," in which the dancers, dressed in
gym shorts, mimicked both competitive sports and playground rivalries.

"Bounce" also lives up to its playful promise in the final numbers, "Rubber Ball
Orchestra" and "Dolphins." The women bounced balls rhythmically in a kind of
hand dance, rolled and somersaulted over them, and Ms. Dean even played catch
with a few children. At the very end, the stage resembled a popcorn popper as
balls of all sizes and colors suddenly rained from the wings. "It's a stampede!"
my son yelled joyfully.

"Bounce," through Aug. 24 at the Mazer Theater, 197 East Broadway, at Jefferson
Street, Lower East Side. This weekend's shows: today at 5:15; Sunday at 5:45
p.m. Tickets: $12; children, $7; (212) 420-8877.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene in "Home-Work: A Journey Into the Garment Industry."
(Benjamin Trimmier)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 17, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Chief Stepping Down, Latest to Do So At Justice Dept.

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 16


James W. Ziglar, the commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said today that he would resign by the end of the year, concluding an embattled
tenure at an agency that has suffered sharp criticism since the Sept. 11
attacks.

Mr. Ziglar, a former managing director of Paine Webber with no previous
experience in immigration matters, follows several other high-level officials
with antiterrorism responsibilities who have left the Justice Department, the
immigration service's parent.

In his resignation letter to President Bush, dated Thursday, Mr. Ziglar said,
"Although I could not have imagined the events of Sept. 11 and the dramatic
changes visited upon the Immigration and Naturalization Service, I have done my
best to continue making progress toward the goals of restructuring the agency
and reducing backlogs while responding to the call to arms in the war on
terrorism."

The commissioner, 56, said in his letter that he would stay to help with the
transition to a new Homeland Security Department and then return to the private
sector.

When he took over barely a year ago, Mr. Ziglar brought a reputation as a strong
manager and a keen legal mind -- he had been a law clerk for Justice Harry A.
Blackmun -- to one of the fastest-growing and most problem-plagued agencies in
government.

But the I.N.S. soon suffered a string of humiliating setbacks, including the
disclosure in March that a service contractor for the agency mailed visa
extensions that month for two of the hijackers who had died in the Sept. 11
attacks. After that debacle, one of the agency's port inspectors in Norfolk,
Va., ignoring new security guidelines, allowed four Pakistani seamen to come
ashore, where they disappeared.

Mr. Ziglar clashed with the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, who favored
dissolving the I.N.S. and instead creating two agencies, one for immigration
services and the other for enforcement. Whatever the fate of that idea, Mr.
Ziglar faced a diminished role with the advent of the proposal for a Homeland
Security Department.

There was no sign today that the White House had pressured Mr. Ziglar to leave
his $130,000-a-year position. But friends and colleagues said he was tired, had
often been exasperated by the agency's mishaps and had a cool relationship with
his boss, Attorney General John Ashcroft.

Mr. Ashcroft issued a two-sentence statement today: "Commissioner Ziglar has
served the administration and the Department of Justice admirably during a very
important time under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. We appreciate his
commitment and service to the country."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Ziglar, commissioner of a frequently criticized agency.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 18, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

August 11-17: NATIONAL;
CHILD-SMUGGLING RING SMASHED

BYLINE:  By Eric Schmitt

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107 words


Federal authorities have broken up a major child-smuggling ring that preyed on
immigrants living illegally in the United States who were desperate to be
reunited with the children.

Since 1994, the network brought in hundreds of children from El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras, at a cost of $5,000 to $7,000 per child, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said.

The smugglers moved the children, toddlers to teenagers, through Mexico to Los
Angeles, where they were passed along to parents from around the country.
Authorities said the youngsters endured searing deserts and frigid mountains, as
well as malnourishment.   Eric Schmitt

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 18, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Precarious Life Goes From Bad to Worse

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1267 words

DATELINE: NEWBURGH, N.Y., Aug. 15


Ava, a 40-year-old Mexican with a tired face, has worked at a cosmetics factory
here for seven years, earning $7.75 an hour on an anonymous assembly line. But
that may end soon, if her employer keeps checking her identity papers.

She has been warned twice in the past five months that her Social Security
number was not valid, and each time, she has claimed that her lawyer was fixing
the problem. In fact, her lawyer could offer no help because Ava used a fake
number. "I'm just waiting to be told that I don't have a job anymore," she said.
"It's very precarious."

So precarious that Ava's two oldest daughters have already lost their jobs
because of the tighter security checks. In June, Maria was fired from a uniform
cleaning company here, and a month later, Heidi was replaced in the dining hall
at the United States Military Academy at West Point, where she had set tables
for the cadets and washed dishes.

Immigrants living illegally in this country have always faced uncertainty and
hardship, but now many of them say that their lives have changed for the worse
since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. They have lost longtime jobs as employers
increasingly check identity papers, and even those who are not Arab or Muslim
say they have encountered more suspicion from bosses, co-workers and neighbors.

"They're feeling more vulnerable," said Monica Santana, executive director of
the Latino Workers Center, a nonprofit group in Manhattan that receives 100
calls a week from immigrants across the state in need of help, double the number
from last year. "They're not only afraid of being found out, but also of being
accused of being a terrorist."

Critics of illegal immigration are quick to point out that these immigrants do
not have a legal right to live in this country. They say greater scrutiny can
accomplish what immigration laws have generally failed to do -- make things so
hard for illegal workers that they must return to their own countries. "People
should not be able to come here and operate outside the law," said David Ray,
associate director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
nonprofit group in Washington that has called for stricter enforcement of
immigration laws. "Otherwise, we'll never get a handle on terrorism and illegal
immigration."

As recently as last summer, a movement to grant legal rights to illegal Mexican
immigrants with a history of working in the United States seemed to be gaining
momentum largely because of negotiations between President Bush and President
Vicente Fox of Mexico. But that stalled immediately after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks as the nation's focus shifted to the war on terrorism, and has only
recently re-emerged. Last month, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri
said he would propose legislation to let illegal immigrants with a work history
in this country qualify for residency. But it is given little chance of passage
this year.

The dual impact of terrorism and recession has spread to places like Newburgh, a
hilltop city of grand Victorian homes, faded row houses and crumbling factories
overlooking the Hudson River, where Hispanics make up more than one-third of the
population of 28,259. The 2000 census lists 10,257 Hispanics, including 4,111
Mexicans and 3,069 Puerto Ricans, though many residents say those numbers are
too low.

The illegal immigrants can be found across the city in factories, restaurants,
construction and landscaping. Some come back at night to basement apartments,
hidden from view, while others cram into dark, airless brownstones. They are
most visible on Friday nights, when they cash their checks and pack into Mexican
groceries and taco joints.

The luckier ones may eventually become legal. Pablo Cruz, 52, a Mexican
immigrant, received his green card through a 1986 amnesty program after years of
operating bread-making machines in an Italian bakery. Now he organizes rallies
to help the other illegal immigrants in Newburgh. "I suffered," he said. "I was
there when immigration came around grabbing people. So now that I have my
documents, my dream is that everyone has that."

For the most part, Newburgh has quietly absorbed this influx of immigrants
without the outcry or protests that divided Farmingville, N.Y., and towns across
California. But in the past year, concerns over terrorism have put many of these
residents in a difficult position: they see the need for more security to
uncover potential terrorists, but do not want to threaten the livelihood of
their neighbors.

Elsa Figueroa App, a city councilwoman who was the first Hispanic to be elected
to that office last year, said she planned to raise money and look for other
ways to help the illegal immigrants caught in the fallout. "We want to help
those that come in peace," she said. "And we will absolutely close the door on
anyone who wants to come here to hurt us."

But, at times, that may be an impossible distinction to make. Alfredo Mazariego,
40, a farm worker from El Salvador who became a legal resident in nearby
Plattekill, N.Y., just before Sept. 11, said he knew six Salvadorans who were
recently fired in New York City because their boss had suspected them of
anti-American activities. The men did not speak enough English to defend
themselves.

Federal immigration officials in the New York region say that they have not
stepped up their work-site enforcement operations since Sept. 11. Under a 1986
federal law, an employer who knowingly hires an illegal immigrant can be subject
to civil and criminal penalties, and the immigrant can be deported and barred
from re-entering the country for up to 10 years.

What has changed, though, is that the Social Security Administration is
notifying more employers of numbers that do not match the agency's records. Mark
Lassiter, a spokesman for the agency, said that 750,000 letters would be sent to
employers nationwide this year compared to 100,000 in previous years because of
a policy decision made even before Sept. 11. The agency has also adopted
stricter rules for issuing Social Security cards and taken other steps to
prevent identity fraud, like verifying applicant information with local and
state governments, and setting up an online system for employers to check Social
Security numbers.

Some employers say they have decided on their own to enforce hiring policies
more closely. For instance, after Sept. 11, the West Point military academy
asked contractors to verify the Social Security numbers and immigration status
of every employee who came into contact with the cadets. "It was always required
before," said Lt. Col. Jim Whaley, a spokesman for the academy. "But what
happened was there wasn't a 100 percent check of everyone. Now there is."

In Newburgh, the illegal immigrants have tried to cope with the tighter security
and the slowing economy by changing jobs more often. They work until they get
fired, then buy another fake card and start over. But many of them say their
options are dwindling with every lost job.

Ava and her husband, Martiriano, who is 50 and works for a landscaping company,
settled in Newburgh in 1990 after illegally crossing the border from Puebla,
Mexico. They got their first jobs with fake identity papers costing $130 each,
and later brought over their five children.

In their small apartment, there is no air-conditioning, and the lights and the
phone work only when they can afford to pay their bills. Still, this is now
their home. "My life here, it's not that it's so great," Ava said. "But at least
when you work, you can earn enough for a decent life and your children can go to
school."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pablo Cruz, an immigrant from Mexico, at his home in Newburgh,
N.Y. He has organized rallies in support of illegal immigrants, many of whom are
losing their jobs. (Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 20, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Deport Palestinian Held on Secret Evidence

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Aug. 19


A Palestinian imprisoned twice for immigration violations and suspected
terrorist links will be released this week from a federal prison and deported to
a Middle Eastern country, his lawyers said today.

The Palestinian, Mazen Al-Najjar, 45, has been held since November on a
deportation order for overstaying his visa, issued 20 years ago.

Mr. Najjar, who has never been charged with a crime, has been held in solitary
confinement at a federal prison for 267 days.

Mr. Najjar was jailed for three and a half years, from 1997 to the end of 2000,
on secret evidence that he helped support terrorists through an Islamic research
center and charity he founded with his brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian. Both have
denied any connection to terrorists.

Mr. Najjar was arrested again for the visa violation after Sept. 11.

Mr. Najjar has travel documents from the Palestinian Authority and will be
deported to an Arab country "with friendly relations with the United States,"
like Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar or Bahrain, said Joe Hohenstein,
a lawyer for Mr. Najjar.

Judge Joan A. Lenard of Federal District Court concluded in February that the
government had legitimate reasons for keeping Mr. Najjar behind bars for at
least six months while trying to deport him.

Mr. Arian, a tenured computer science professor at the University of South
Florida, has been on paid leave since September.

The university president, Judy Genshaft, is expected to decide whether to fire
him sometime before fall semester classes begin next week.

Mr. Arian is the former head of a university-based Islamic research center that
the F.B.I. has accused of being a front for terrorists.

Mr. Arian contends that he will be fired because of his pro-Palestinian views.

University officials say he is a safety risk on campus and did not clearly say
he was not speaking for the school when he expressed his opinions publicly.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 20, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fairness for Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 155 words


To the Editor:

Re "Child-Smuggling Ring Broken Up by the U.S. Immigration Agency" (front page,
Aug. 13):

Why were the children being smuggled into the United States to be reunited with
their parents all from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras -- but not from
Nicaragua? Because Congress passed laws in 1997 and 2000 that permitted any
Nicaraguans in the United States since 1995 to bring up their minor children.

No such right was extended to Salvadorans and Guatemalans, who have had no legal
recourse under United States law to save their children from armed gangs,
earthquakes and the floods that have tormented those countries in recent years.

The fact that the trip is tough and dangerous is a direct result of our enhanced
border barriers and our failure to have an evenhanded law for Central American
refugees.

ANNE PILSBURY
Center Lovell, Me., Aug. 14, 2002

The writer is the director of Central American Legal Assistance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 25, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dublin on the Thruway

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2337 words

DATELINE: YONKERS


McLEAN AVENUE meanders across Yonkers just above the Bronx border. While it
winds and dips like an Irish country road, it is lined with so many pubs and
other Irish businesses that one feels transported to Cork or Limerick. The local
tongue is a lilting brogue.

Irish immigrants first began settling here in the mid-1980's, and by 2000, the
bars and sidewalks were teeming with young Irish people who had come for the
jobs and the great craic, the Gaelic word for fun. The community seized claim to
the unofficial title of Ireland's 33rd county.

But as the American economy has flagged and jobs have grown scarce, many Irish
have returned home to look for work. Tighter restrictions on green cards and
visas have kept others from replacing them. Things have grown quieter along the
avenue that craic built.

"Quite a few young people have gone back in the past couple of years, and the
majority of them have stayed back," said Rory Dolan, a co-owner of Rory Dolan's,
the most prominent bar on McLean Avenue.

There was fear, especially among merchants like Mr. Dolan, that the change would
cause McLean Avenue to decline as as other short-lived Irish communities have
But if anything, this bustling community along the New York State Thruway has
grown stronger, residents say.

The area, which runs along McLean Avenue, roughly from the Saw Mill Parkway to
the Bronx River Parkway, has become less of a rollicking party ground and more
of a broad-based community. Swarms of Irish transplants are buying and
renovating starter homes and establishing businesses, from construction
companies to coffee shops.

What remains is a community with a strong middle-class backbone that no longer
measures its vitality by the pint and the keg. Property values and rents have
soared. More of the Irish who have remained here have steady jobs and legitimate
immigrant status, and many are applying for United States citizenship.

In short, McLean Avenue seems to have reached trealbhaidh, a Gaelic term for
maturation or coming of age.

"Especially for the young Irish, McLean Avenue has gotten to be the biggest
Irish community in the New York area over the past decade," said Cait Moran, a
spokeswoman for the Irish Consulate in Manhattan.

"Most Irish here have it in the back of their heads to maybe one day go back,
and they're always watching closely to see how their friends and relations do
when they return," she said. "But it's not seen as a depletion of the community.
The neighborhood is strong enough to survive."

Adrian Flannelly, a popular Irish radio talk show host here, said the area had
achieved a stability that other Irish communities in New York lacked.

"It used to be that you got off the plane and went straight to Inwood or
Woodside or Woodlawn," he said. "Now the word on the street is that Irish have
staked out McLean Avenue. If you want to move forward, to regularize your
status, all roads lead there. It's an enclave with tremendous security and
support. The stability of other Irish areas in New York is questionable, but
look at McLean: You can't argue with success.

"It's not a passing thing," said Mr. Flannelly, chairman of Irish Radio Network
USA and a board member of the Irish government's immigration task force. "The
Irish community around McLean Avenue is here to stay. If you're looking for a
33rd county, this is the new one."

Liam McLaughlin, who represents the area in the Yonkers City Council, said the
community had developed strong political clout. Many of the Irish here are
influential in the trade unions, he said, and the bar owners wield power in the
larger business community. When Gerry Adams, leader of the political arm of the
Irish Republican Army, visits the country, he always speaks at Rory Dolan's.

According to Mr. Flannelly, the politics and the troubles that have embroiled
Northern Ireland, including differences between Catholics and Protestants, are
not inflammatory issues in the community here, even though people here keep up
with the peace process back home through Irish newspapers and news programs.

Northern Ireland politics just don't translate over here, he said, because
people are coming over to make a better life for themselves.

Mr. Dolan agreed. "Everyone lives together here," he said. "You have Catholics
living next to Protestants. People don't care."

Mr. McLaughlin said the community is well-rounded now. "A lot of Irish have
gone, but many have stayed too, and bought homes and settled in and taken root,"
he said. "You used to have young people tending bar and bouncing around the
neighborhood, living in a house with four friends. Now they've met someone here
and are buying homes of their own, fixing them up and settling here.

"Every time I drive by a house being worked on, it's seems to be someone of
Irish descent, and not just on McLean Avenue, but they're moving up to the
northwest and eastern parts of Yonkers."

There has been a strong Irish influence in Yonkers for more than a century.
According to the 2000 census, of 196,086 documented Yonkers residents, 25,241,
or 13 percent, claim to have Irish heritage. That is second only to Italians,
who make up 18.8 percent.

The Irish neighborhoods in the New York area include Sunnyside and Woodside in
Queens, Woodlawn and Bainbridge in the Bronx and Inwood in Manhattan.

After the decline of Bainbridge Avenue, an Irish hot spot of the 1980's and
early 1990's, many Irish moved to Woodlawn and traveled up Katonah Avenue into
Yonkers. Many of them, tired of living in apartment buildings were attracted to
McLean Avenue with its affordable one-family houses.

The neighborhood, which was part Italian but with a sizable population of older
Irish immigrants who settled here decades ago, was safe and convenient to
Manhattan. Pubs began springing up, an essential foundation for any Irish
neighborhood, and the Irish invasion into the area began. The community grew
throughout the 1990's into a major destination for Irish arriving in New York.
The American economy was booming and, even on weeknights, the bars were packed
shoulder to shoulder. The sidewalks were so crowded with Irish people that it
was often compared to Grafton Street, a busy thoroughfare in Dublin.

The area has not been without its problems. In the 1990's there were fears that
McLean Avenue would become the next Bainbridge Avenue, which became affected by
heavy night life, bar fights and police crackdowns. In 1996, to prevent
over-saturation, the Yonkers City Council temporarily banned the construction of
new bars along a stretch of McLean Avenue. And in 1999, there were problems with
Irish immigrants using ecstasy and other recreational drugs.

But overall, the Irish influx has had a positive effect, said Lee Ellman, the
planning director for Yonkers.

"You walk down McLean Avenue and you see a tremendous revitalization of the
neighborhood," he said. "It has really become especially vibrant over the last
10 years, a tremendous upgrade. The storefronts had a 1950's look and were
somewhat tired looking. Now there is a much more Irish aesthetic, a continental
look to the facades."

One of those storefronts is Dympna Tully's business, Tully Travel, which has
prospered since she opened it in May 1998.

"A lot of people have chosen to go back to Ireland for one reason or another,"
she said, "but a lot of young couples have also chosen to stay here and put
their children in the schools.

"The area has taken on a lot better look and the stability has increased
tremendously in the last few years. The housing prices have doubled, and it's
impossible to find a house here. They're sold before they get put on the
market."

In Westchester, ethnic enclaves can dilute quickly and recede into anonymity in
residential neighborhoods. But it is hard to miss McLean Avenue. The area's
picturesque pubs have names that could be set to a lively Irish reel. For
starters, you have Mulligans, McGinn's, McGilligan's and McKeon's. Then there is
the Well, the Lark's Nest, the Quays and the Snug. Add to that: Arthur Daly's,
Ned Devine's, Burke's, Behan's, Bodhran's, Fagans, Fiona's, Cornyn's, Tara and
Granuaile. For good measure, throw in: P. J. Clarke's, J. J. Mannion's, the
Heritage, the Hibernian, the Leinster House and the Malt House.

Of course, there are also many successful businesses that do not traffic in
Guinness Stout and Bushmill's whisky. For food, there is the Irish Coffee Shop,
the Irish Country Kitchen, the Celtic Kitchen, Eileen's Country Kitchen and
Katie's Cottage. There is Sean's Deli and the An Siopa Beag grocery. There are
many Irish car services and law offices.

When the economy was better, even the many Irish immigrants without visas or
green cards could find off-the-books work, assisted by the tight network of
Irish businesses here. But now many who want to come to America cannot. In
recent years, the United States government has made it harder for immigrants
from many nations to get work visas and green cards, decreasing quotas and
creating lotteries. After Sept. 11, immigration became even harder.

STILL, some young people from Ireland continue to come. And for any newcomer, a
haven like McLean Avenue is vital.

"Having a support network is crucial to getting started," said Mary Tuohy, a
director of the Aisling Irish Community Center on McLean Avenue, which provides
cultural and outreach services.

The center, financed by community donations and a grant from the Irish
government, offers everything from passport renewals to classes in yoga and
Gaelic.

McLean Avenue is very unified, said Tom Riordan, another director of the center.

"It's actually tighter here than across the sea," Mr. Riordan said. "The Irish
are clannish. At home, a Kerry man might help another Kerry man before a Donegal
man. But here, Irish is Irish."

Mr. Riordan is a Killarney man and Ms. Tuohy is from Tipperary.

They said, regardless of their home county, all Irish enjoy being able to get
Irish products locally, like Irish newspapers or strong Irish tea. Irish foods
can help stave off homesickness, and the small grocers along McLean Avenue stock
bangers and rashers and pudding-style sausages. They have Batchelor's Baked
Beans, Galtee bacon and kidney pies. Snacks like Tayto's chips and Cadbury
chocolates are also on the shelves, as is Weetabix cereal, Jacob's Cream
Crackers, and Oldlum's flour for making soda bread.

Besides food, the Irish import another touch-stone of home: sports. The Gaelic
Athletic Association runs hurling and Gaelic football games on Sundays in Gaelic
Park, in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Gaelic football resembles rugby and
hurling is something like field hockey for gladiators. For a $10 admission fee,
there are four games and some of the world's best hurlers and footballers, most
of whom play for teams named for the Irish counties they came from. The teams,
financed by the local community, regularly pay for expert players from Ireland
to fly here on weekends to play for them during the season, which runs from
March through October.

"The teams are a starting point for a lot of Irish," said Tom Tuffy, president
of the Sligo Supporters Club, which backs the Sligo team from New York.

"If you're a good footballer and a team picks you up, it will get you work and
an apartment and get you moving in the right direction," said Mr. Tuffy, who
moved here from Sligo in 1986 and started his own construction company in
Manhattan. He soon bought himself a home a block north of McLean Avenue. "If
they're footballers, they'll get work through the teams. A large percentage of
people in the area come here and stay here because of their sporting abilities."

Danny Leavy, 32, who plays Gaelic football for the Westmeath team, came here
nine years ago from the town of Rhode, in County Offaly, and got his job with
the carpenters' union through the team. He bought a house just up from McLean
Avenue two years ago.

He married an Irish woman here and they are undecided whether to start a family
in Ireland or Yonkers. He bought his house for $276,000, he said, and now he can
sell it for more than $400,000, but "I know I'll never earn as much working back
home."

Inside the bar at Gaelic Park, Varina Carey drank beer with her teammates from
the County Kildare Gaelic football team. Ms. Carey, 28, is from the town of
Scotstown in Monaghan County. She came to New York in 1993 and headed straight
to McLean Avenue. She has basically remained here since then, playing midfield
for the team, working for a local accountant and hitting the pubs on the
weekends. She said she is buying a condominium near McLean Avenue because "it's
the handiest area for me."

Not only Irish immigrants enjoy McLean Avenue. Others are drawn to the
neighborhood by Irish music festivals, live bar bands and Irish culture classes
in small private schools and community centers.

The McNamaras, an Irish-American family in Tuckahoe, are regular visitors to the
McLean Avenue area. The parents, Tom and Rosita McNamara, are constantly
shuttling their five children a set of triplets, 11, and a set of twins, 17 to
Yonkers for Irish dancing and music lessons. The twins, Elizabeth and Patricia,
are world-class competitive step dancers who started at age 8 and have been to
Ireland nine times for dancing events. The triplets are Maggie, Conor and
Thomas. Maggie plays the tin whistle and dances, Thomas plays keyboard, and
Conor plays the accordion.

It's the same with the Mahon family of Mount Vernon. Kathleen Mariah Mahon, 11,
has taken step dance since she was 3. Her brother plays the tin whistle.

"Everything she knows about Irish culture, she learned from McLean Avenue, said
her father, James M. Mahon. "We didn't even know what the tin whistle was, and
now I'm spending $100 on one."

But for residents like Mr. Tuffy, this Dublin-on-the-Thruway is more than just a
resource for Irish culture. It is home.

"You're 3,000 miles away from where you were born, yet you don't feel like
you're that far away from home," he said. "In a way, it's our home away from
home, but we're not going anywhere. We're here to stay."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The McNamaras, top, in Tuckahoe: Conor, left, with father, Tom,
behind him; Thomas, with mother, Rosita, behind him; Patricia, Maggie and
Elizabeth. A hurling match in Gaelic Park. Amanda Rodden and daughter, Lauren,
at Irish Coffee Shop in Yonkers. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times);
(Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Inside Rory Dolan's, a bar on McLean
Avenue in Yonkers, which is one of several Irish businesses that add to the
stability of the community and attract Irish transplants. (George M.
Gutierrez)(pg. 6); A mural on the outside wall of the Heritage, an Irish bar on
Glove Street and McLean Avenue in Yonkers. Top: Looking west along McLean
Avenue, where many Irish pubs, coffee shops and other businesses dominate.
(George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); (Chris Maynard for The New York
Times)(pg. 1) Map of Westchester highlights McLean Avenue. (pg. 6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 27, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: IMMIGRATION;
A Court Backs Open Hearings On Deportation

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words


The federal appeals court in Cincinnati declared yesterday that the Bush
administration acted unlawfully in holding hundreds of deportation hearings in
secret based only on the government's assertion that the people involved may
have links to terrorism.

The decision, which was laced with stinging language questioning the
administration's commitment to an open democracy, is the first major appellate
ruling on the government's legal tactics concerning Sept. 11.

"Democracies die behind closed doors," wrote Judge Damon J. Keith for the
unanimous three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit. The Bush administration has sought, the panel said, to place its
actions "beyond public scrutiny."

"When the government begins closing doors," the panel continued, "it selectively
controls information rightfully belonging to the people. Selective information
is misinformation."

Barbara Comstock, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said the government
had not decided whether to appeal.

"The Justice Department has an obligation to exercise all available options to
disrupt and prevent terrorism within the bounds of the Constitution, and will
review today's opinion in light of our duty to protect the American people," Ms.
Comstock said in a statement.

The case was brought by four Michigan newspapers and Representative John Conyers
Jr., Democrat of Michigan. They sought to attend deportation hearings concerning
Rabih Haddad, a Muslim clergyman who had overstayed his tourist visa.

Mr. Haddad, a native of Lebanon and a resident of Ann Arbor, Mich., is the
founder of the Global Relief Foundation, a Muslim charity whose assets were
frozen after it came under federal scrutiny.

In April, a federal district judge in Detroit rejected the government's argument
that it should be allowed to decide which hearings must be closed without
presenting arguments and evidence to immigration judges. The judge, Nancy G.
Edmunds, ruled that future hearings in Mr. Haddad's case must be open, and the
government has released transcripts of the sealed hearings. Judge Edmunds was
appointed by the first President Bush.

In similar decisions that have yet to be tested on appeal, trial court judges in
Newark and Washington have also recently ordered the government to open hearings
and release information about people held in connection with terrorism
investigations.

According to information provided by the Justice Department last month, 752
people were detained on immigration violations in connection with Sept. 11
investigations. As of late June, 81 remained in custody. The rest were released
or deported.

The appeals court in Cincinnati affirmed Judge Edmunds's decision with unusual
speed, issuing its decision fewer than three weeks after it heard oral
arguments.

"The panel was offended by the government's attempt to hide behind national
security to strip us of our freedoms," said Herschel P. Fink, who represented
The Detroit Free Press in the case.

Press lawyers were unrestrained in their enthusiasm for the decision.

"I want to weep it's so good," said Lucy Dalglish, the executive director of the
Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press.

Judge Keith, who was appointed to the appeals court by President Jimmy Carter,
has a history of strong opinions on civil liberties. In 1971, as a district
judge, he rejected an argument by Attorney General John Mitchell that wiretaps
obtained without search warrants could sometimes be justified in the name of
national security.

The appeals court panel also included Martha Craig Daughtrey, also of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and James G. Carr, a federal
trial court judge from Toledo, Ohio, sitting as a visiting appellate judge.
Judges Daughtrey and Carr were both appointed by President Bill Clinton.

A broader case on the same issues will be heard by the federal appeals court in
Philadelphia next month. In that case, a Newark judge ordered that all
deportations nationwide be opened to public scrutiny unless the government
offered proof, case by case, of why secrecy was needed.

The Justice Department may be awaiting the outcome of that case before deciding
whether to appeal in the Haddad case.

Yesterday's decision applied directly only to Mr. Haddad's case. Its reasoning,
though, is binding on courts in Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee and may
be cited as precedent elsewhere.

The recent judicial activity is part of a historical pattern, said Lee Levine, a
Washington lawyer and the author of a treatise on access to government
proceedings.

"Some momentous event happens," Mr. Levine said. "There follows a governmentwide
tendency to defer to the executive branch. Then at some point when a calm
distance has been achieved from the precipitating event, slowly but surely the
judiciary rises from its slumber and says, 'We've forgotten what we're fighting
for.' "

The decision rejected administration arguments that tried to distinguish
immigration hearings, which are conducted within the executive branch, from
trials conducted by the judicial branch.

The court held that deportation hearings look and feel like trials. They are,
Judge Keith wrote, "exceedingly formal and adversarial."

Indeed, said Lee Gelernt, a lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union who
represented some of the plaintiffs, "there is perhaps even greater reason to
have public scrutiny of deportation hearings."

"There is no jury," Mr. Gelernt added, "and the defendants will often not have
counsel. They're facing trained prosecutors, and they're often very literally
sitting there all by themselves."

The appeals court decision was also notable, experts said, for a warm embrace of
news organizations not seen in most courts since the Vietnam and Watergate eras.
The public, the court wrote, has deputized the press "as the guardians of their
liberty."

The panel emphasized that the government might well be able to meet its burden
of persuading immigration judges case by case that given proceedings may be
closed.

The panel wrote that the government has already outlined "compelling interests
sufficient to justify closure."

Among the rationales for closing cited in government affidavits were physical
danger and embarrassment to the detainees and people associated with them, along
with the possibility of compromising investigations.

Ms. Comstock said the government was pleased with this aspect of the decision.

"As the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals recognized today," she said, "the
government has a compelling interest in preventing terrorism and closing
immigration proceedings that could reveal information" that might help
terrorists avoid detection.

The panel held that the general interest in preventing terrorism must be argued
to and accepted by immigration judges in the context of particular cases. The
judge in Mr. Haddad's case made no such findings. Rather, she relied on a
blanket directive issued by the chief immigration judge, Michael J. Creppy. It
instructed immigration judges to keep so-called special-interest cases secret.

"Each of these cases is to be heard separately from all other cases on the
docket," Judge Creppy wrote. "The courtroom must be closed for these cases -- no
visitors, no family, and no press."

"This restriction," he continued, "includes confirming or denying whether such a
case is on the docket."

The appeals court panel said the directive violated the Constitution.

"The task of designating a case special interest is performed in secret, without
any established standards or procedures, and the process is, thus, not subject
to any sort of review," Judge Keith wrote. "A government operating in the shadow
of secrecy stands in complete opposition to the society envisioned by the
framers of our Constitution."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judge Damon J. Keith, left, writing for a federal appeals
court, said cases like that of Rabih Haddad should not be held behind closed
doors. (Associated Press); (Detroit Free Press)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 27, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Education: Commuter Visas

BYLINE:  By Jeremy W. Peters (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 76 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will begin allowing thousands of
part-time students who commute to United States colleges from Canada and Mexico
to obtain visas.

The new policy will allow students who attend classes part time to legally
enroll in schools within 75 miles of the United States border. For years until
Sept. 11, the immigration service did not enforce the ban on part-time students
crossing the border.   Jeremy W. Peters (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 59 words


An article on Wednesday about a Colombian farmer's struggle to gain asylum in
the United States referred incorrectly to guards at the Port Isabel Service
Processing Center in Los Fresnos, Tex., where he was detained. The guards are
unarmed; the Immigration and Naturalization Service says it is against policy to
carry a weapon inside the compound.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 22, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Immigration Service To Begin Reorganization Soon

BYLINE:  NYT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 90 words


James W. Ziglar, President Bush's new commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said he expected to begin restructuring the service by
early fall.

The effort, he said, would take two to three years. Members of Congress have
sought an overhaul of the agency, and Mr. Bush has said it must shorten the time
it takes to deliver services. Mr. Ziglar decried a culture split between service
personnel and enforcement officers, and cited two enforcement priorities: human
smugglers and employers who mistreat illegal workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Mineola: Defrauding Immigrants

BYLINE:  By Al Baker (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 77 words


A Long Island man has been charged with posing as a lawyer and stealing nearly
$10,000 from immigrants by promising to help them with immigration matters like
work permits and green cards, Denis E. Dillon, the Nassau County district
attorney, said yesterday.

The man, Manuel Herrera, 52, of Mineola, was arrested when he appeared in court
on a violation of probation he received after a 1999 guilty plea to similar
charges, Mr. Dillon said.   Al Baker (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 24, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Sought in 6 Killings Joins Most-Wanted List

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Aug. 23


A Ukrainian immigrant sought in connection with the killings of six family
members was added today to the F.B.I.'s list of 10 most-wanted fugitives,
raising the price on his head to $70,000.

The immigrant, Nikolay Soltys, should be considered armed and extremely
dangerous, the bureau officials said.

The police said Mr. Soltys had a history of extorting money from fellow
Ukrainian immigrants.

"If you look at the handful of his associates and the people he could intimidate
for things like welfare money, he could be pretty well set in terms of cash,"
Capt. John McGinness of the Sacramento County Sheriff's Department said.

Mr. Soltys is believed to have killed his pregnant wife and then stolen several
thousand dollars from the home where he slashed to death his aunt, uncle and two
young cousins on Monday, Captain McGinness said.

That and money he extorted from others, as much as $15,000, may be helping him
avoid a nationwide manhunt, the captain added.

Despite reports suggesting that Mr. Soltys may be heading to the Southeast, the
police say he is probably around Sacramento.

The police said Mr. Soltys might also have had access to unregistered cars, like
the mid-90's emerald-green Ford Explorer in which he was last seen.

"Cash transactions for automobiles are extremely common in immigrant
communities," Captain McGinness said, "and they're not always that prompt in
reporting them."

The authorities said that shortly after the killings on Monday, Mr. Soltys, 27,
showed up bloody and disheveled at his mother's house, where he picked up his
3-year-old son, Sergey, who was later found with his throat cut. That conflicts
with the mother's earlier reports that her son was calm and clean when he picked
up his son.

Mr. Soltys had a reputation for cruelty, the Ukrainian newspaper Fakty reported
today. His father-in-law, Ihor Nakonechnyi, said in an interview that Mr. Soltys
had attacked his wife with an ax in their village in the Ternopil region of
western Ukraine.

The police in Sacramento County and Charlotte, N.C., where Mr. Soltys once
lived, are protecting his relatives. He also has family in Seattle and New York
State.

The last confirmed sighting of Mr. Soltys was on Monday night when he hired a
mechanic to remove the Explorer's roof rack.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Challenges In Fighting AIDS

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 168 words


To the Editor:

Re "China Now Facing an AIDS Epidemic, a Top Aide Admits" (front page, Aug. 24):

The timely acknowledgment by China's deputy health minister, Yin Dakui, of the
growing AIDS epidemic in the country should cue our awareness of the potential
for a rise in H.I.V. infection among Chinese living in the United States.

According to a 1999 report by the New York City Department of City Planning,
China has consistently been the third largest source of immigrants to the city
since the early 1970's.

The growing influx of Chinese immigrants and the escalating rates of
H.I.V.-infection in Asia have created a silent epidemic that calls for
prevention programs that increase awareness of H.I.V. transmission, risk
behaviors and treatment, without reinforcing stigmas and the rejection of
Chinese and Asians living with H.I.V. and AIDS in the United States.

EZER KANG
New York, Aug. 24, 2001

The writer is a research scientist at the H.I.V. Center for Clinical and
Behavioral Studies, Columbia University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Daughter of Immigrants Hails the Newest Arrivals

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 99 words


To the Editor:

Re "Yearning to Be Safe" (July 29): I read about the Burmese family in this
article with tears in my eyes and hope in my heart.

In 1938 my father was an illegal alien escaping Europe, and my mother was
undertaking a perilous journey across Europe to reach a ship that would bring
her to the United States and freedom. I am told that my first words in English
were "God bless America," spoken with a heavy Hungarian accent.

These newest immigrants give continued meaning to the words "land of the free."

STELLA SCHINDLER
Greenwich Village

The writer is a retired Family Court judge.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Australians Seize Ship to Keep Refugees at Sea

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: CHRISTMAS ISLAND, Australia, Aug. 29


Australian troops stormed a Norwegian ship today, and Australia's prime minister
vowed to keep the hundreds of asylum seekers on board, mostly Afghans, away from
his country's shores.

Norway turned to the United Nations today for help after the ship was forcibly
prevented from taking the asylum seekers into port.

Prime Minister John Howard of Australia said the seizure of the ship signaled
his government's determination to crack down on a wave of asylum seekers, mostly
from the Middle East. But it touched off wide condemnation of a country that was
founded as a penal colony and built on immigration.

"It remains our very strong determination not to allow this vessel or its
occupants, save in excepting humanitarian circumstances clearly demonstrated, to
land in Australia," Mr. Howard said before a cheering Parliament. He said he
planned to introduce new laws -- and force Parliament to sit all weekend to pass
them if necessary -- to retroactively justify his action.

Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said later that Australian troops aboard the
freighter, the Tampa, would force the vessel back out to sea, although he
declined to give "operational details."

Norway reacted angrily, saying it had reported Australia to the United Nations
agencies responsible for shipping and refugees and to the Red Cross.

Earlier today, Special Air Service troops roared through the surf off Christmas
Island in high-speed boats after the Tampa's captain breached the 12-mile
international limit, four days after rescuing 434 asylum seekers from a sinking
Indonesian ferry. The island outpost is 1,550 miles west of Darwin, Australia.

The ship's owners said the captain had felt that the situation had gotten "out
of hand" and that he needed to move closer to shore in the interests of his
ship, crew and passengers.

In a telephone interview with CNN, Wilhelm Wilhelmsen, an executive of the
company that owns the Tampa, said: "Let me start by saying that we have actually
saved 438 lives at the request of the Australia government. Subsequently the
ship was brought to Christmas Island, and last night we took it into territorial
waters because we were afraid of the conditions."

Conditions on the Tampa, a container vessel built to accommodate 40 people, are
deteriorating. Hundreds of people are crowded on the deck or taking shelter in
empty containers, but Norway said a hunger strike started two days ago by the
asylum seekers had been called off. The ship issued distress calls overnight
seeking medical help.

But Australia's immigration minister, Philip Ruddock, said the captain had
"acquiesced to duress" after some asylum seekers threatened to jump overboard.

Ignoring exhortations from aid agencies, Australia has refused access to the
Tampa since it rescued the Afghan, Sri Lankan and Pakistani asylum seekers as
they tried to make their way from Indonesia to Australia. Indonesia and Norway
have also rejected responsibility for the passengers.

The standoff has shone a spotlight on Australia's increasingly tough stand
toward illegal immigrants, which has become a major issue in the general
election this year.

Australia accepts more than 10,000 refugees resettled each year by the United
Nations. Most of the 5,000 annual illegal immigrants are granted refugee status,
and the numbers are tiny compared with the tens of thousands who try to get into
European countries.

But over the past 11 days, 1,500 people have turned up along the vast northern
coastline, and with reports that another 900 are on their way, Australians
appear to back the government's stance.

A second large group of asylum seekers trying to travel to Australia is stuck on
Lombok, an Indonesian island, the police and a United Nations agency said today.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Special Air Service troops leaving Christmas Island yesterday to
board a Norwegian ship. Australia has rejected the 434 asylum seekers on board.
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Restaurant Accused of Exploiting Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: WAYNE, N.J., Aug. 29


Four former workers at a Chinese restaurant here and about 20 sympathizers
demonstrated outside the establishment today, saying its owners and managers had
failed to pay workers and forced them to return some of their tips.

The demonstration's organizers said the event was just the start of an effort to
protest what they said was exploitation of immigrant workers in the New York
suburbs.

"I get phone calls every day from immigrants who are working in inhumane
conditions -- not getting paid, getting abused," said Jennifer Ching, a lawyer
for the New Jersey Chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, who took part
in the rally.

She said the complaints come from recent immigrants from Asia, Latin America,
Africa, Eastern Europe and Russia who work for landscapers, construction and
demolition companies, factories and restaurants.

Today's rally was called in support of four former employees of the restaurant,
King Chef Buffet, on Hamburg Turnpike -- a waitress and three waiters who filed
a lawsuit against the restaurant last September in United States District Court
in Newark.

The suit charges violations of wage provisions of the federal Fair Labor
Standards Act, as well as sex and ethnic discrimination under New Jersey's civil
rights law. The suit also seeks at least $1 million in back wages and damages
for pain and suffering.

"Boycott sweatshops," the protesters chanted today as they marched with placards
near the entrance to the restaurant. One of the English signs read: "King Chef
Buffet Stop Stealing Wages and Tips."

The protest was also intended to attract attention to a growing problem: the
failure of some New Jersey employersto pay the state-mandated minimum wage of
$5.15 an hour to recent immigrants of many nationalities, Ms. Ching said.

She contended that the State Labor Department, which enforces the wage law, is
understaffed at a time of rising complaints by immigrants.

A spokesman for the department, Kevin Smith, disagreed, saying its investigative
staff and workers' complaints about pay violations have been stable in recent
years.

"The staff we have is working very hard to investigate every complaint that we
receive," Mr. Smith said. He said the department was investigating wage
complaints filed by employees of the King Chef Buffet. He declined to offer
details.

Efforts to elicit comments at the restaurant were unsuccessful. A man and a
woman who stood in the lobby during the protest and identified themselves as
friends of the owner refused to provide the names of the owner or the
restaurant's lawyer.

The rally was arranged by a grass-roots workers' center based in Chinatown in
lower Manhattan, the Chinese Staff and Workers Association. Laura Liu, a staff
organizer for the group, said it had about 1,300 members and has focused in
recent months on attacking minimum-wage violations in Chinese-owned clothing
factories, restaurants and construction companies.

Ms. Liu said the group was now expanding its campaigns to New Jersey and Long
Island.

The protest attracted one prominent state labor leader, Thomas P. Giblin, the
president of the Essex-West Hudson Labor Council, A.F.L-C.I.O., and, until
recently, the chairman of the Democratic State Committee. At one point, Mr.
Giblin led the small band of protesters in a chant for justice.

Mr. Giblin said he accepted an invitation to attend because Chinese restaurant
workers "deserve help." He said few if any, including those at the King Chef
Buffet, were affiliated with unions. "That doesn't mean an injustice shouldn't
be rectified," he said. "It's a question of fairness."

The former waitress at the restaurant, Linda Chen, 29, said during the rally
that she and her co-workers worked 13 hours a day six days a week, did not
receive wages or overtime, and were forced to pay "the boss" $18 a day from
their tips to keep their jobs.

Ms. Chen also said that she and 14 co-workers, both men and women, were forced
to live in a small one-bedroom apartment that the restaurant owner rented in
nearby Paterson. At one point last summer, she said, the apartment did not have
lights or air-conditioning.

The workers' lawsuit said Ms. Chen was fired in July 2000. The three waiters who
joined the suit, identified as David Wu, 31, Michael Xu, 29, and Jason Zhang,
30, quit their jobs in protest, Mr. Xu said.

The suit charged that Ms. Chen was dismissed because of her sex and ethnicity.
She said she lived in the Chinese city of Fuchow before immigrating to the
United States legally in 1993.

Ms. Liu said natives of Fuchow are often belittled by other Chinese.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters at a restaurant in Wayne, N.J., charged yesterday
that it violated labor laws. They said the owners failed to pay their workers.
(John W. Wheeler for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 1, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Agreement Yet With Mexico On Immigration Plan, U.S. Says

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31


After months of extensive negotiations, the White House was forced to
acknowledge today that it would not reach a comprehensive new agreement with
Mexico on immigration next week when President Bush meets with President Vicente
Fox.

Instead, the two presidents will endorse a general set of principles and a
framework for regulating the flow of migrants between the neighboring countries,
leaving aides to work out thorny details and to build political support for the
measures in the next several months.

"The immigration issue is one that is a complex issue," Mr. Bush told reporters
today, saying he was pleased with the progress of the talks so far. "The issue
will require more than just the administration's involvement. It requires a
willing Congress to address the issue."

Mr. Bush views the immigration issue as a critical step in developing a stronger
relationship with Mexico, which he has put at the top of his foreign policy
agenda.

A committee led by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Attorney General John
Ashcroft has recommended expanding a temporary worker program that would allow
some of the estimated three million Mexicans living here unlawfully to earn
permanent legal residence.

But carrying out the plan is rife with problems that months of negotiations have
not resolved. How does the administration do it without calling it an amnesty
and seeming to reward lawbreakers? How can Mr. Bush justify singling out
Mexicans and not people from other nations, even nations in Latin America where
he is trying to broker a new, broader trade accord that would link the entire
hemisphere?

That complicated balancing act is exactly why it will take much longer for the
two countries to work out an accord, the White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer,
said, tamping down expectations for the state visit, as Mr. Powell and Mexican
officials did earlier this month.

"There are people who are already in this country, contributing to the American
economy even though they may not be legal, and they are paying taxes," Mr.
Fleischer said. "As a result of their labor and their efforts, Americans are
able to enjoy many aspects of life because of the immigration work force."

But the president does not want to take any steps that would encourage new waves
of illegal immigrants or "put people who may be illegal ahead of people who have
waited patiently, while being legal," Mr. Fleischer said.

For Mr. Bush, the visit is partly about symbolism. During his just-ended
vacation at his Texas ranch, the president talked extensively about the
black-tie state dinner next Wednesday with Mr. Fox. Mr. Bush considers Mr. Fox,
perhaps more than any other international leader, to be a personal friend as
well as a partner.

While the talks next week will address a range of other issues, including
energy, trade and border safety, immigration will dominate the discussions.
Mexican and American officials said they expected the two presidents to agree in
principle to an expanded guest-worker program, a limited legalization plan,
border safety improvements and discussions about raising the number of permanent
visas for Mexicans.

An unusual coalition of business, labor, human rights and religious groups have
rallied around the proposal to allow some immigrants living here unlawfully to
earn permanent legal residency.

But the idea has polarized two of Mr. Bush's key political constituencies. The
plan has galvanized Latinos, now the nation's largest minority and a crucial
voting bloc that Mr. Bush is courting. But it has alienated many conservatives
in Congress, which must approve or reject any plan.

Mr. Bush repeated last week that he opposed a blanket amnesty for illegal
immigrants, like the one President Reagan enacted in 1986 that ultimately
granted legal status to nearly three million immigrants from all countries. But
today Mr. Bush voiced support for an expanded guest worker program.

"It's in our nation's interest that if someone's looking for a worker, that we
figure out how to combine the two," he said.

There is now a small-scale, cumbersome plan that allows mostly agriculture
laborers to get temporary visas. Under one proposal, a pool of new migrants
employed in service jobs like those at hotels and restaurants could apply for
temporary work permits with the possibility of earning permanent residency over
time.

At least some of the Mexicans already in the United States illegally could earn
permanent lawful status if they could certify that they had been living and
working in the country for a specified time, had been paying taxes and did not
have criminal records.

The Fox administration has broken down the roughly 3.5 million illegal Mexican
immigrants by the year that they arrived in the United States: those who arrived
right after the 1986 law, those who arrived from 1997 to 2000, and those who
have arrived since 2000.

Any legalization would happen in waves, said one Mexican official, with the
first group to get the first benefits. The official said negotiators were
discussing certain work restrictions that would, for example, prohibit
low-skilled workers like meatpackers or waiters from moving into higher-skilled
jobs.

Mexico would like to have an agreement reached this year and legislation
presented to Congress next year.

"It is urgent that we should have some kind of fleshed-out agreement, with
numbers, with details, by the end of the year, or by the beginning of next
year," Jorge G. Castaneda, Mexico's foreign minister, said on Wednesday.

Administration officials say they need time to build support in Congress. This
month, six former chairmen of the Republican National Committee, including
Senator Bob Dole and Haley Barbour, sent a letter to Mr. Bush urging him to
support an expanded guest worker program and a limited legalization plan.

"The PR side of this and the salesmanship of this will be difficult," said Frank
J. Fahrenkopf Jr., a former chairman of the Republican committee who signed the
letter. "But there's got to be some kind of limited legalization program."

But Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican who supports a new guest worker
program, has vowed that any plan legalizing illegal workers would have to pass
"over my cold, dead political body."

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican who heads the
House Judiciary Committee, has said any legalization plan is "dead on arrival"
without first overhauling the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A coalition of groups that oppose increased immigration, led by the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, this month began a $500,000 radio and
television ad campaign in a dozen states, including Florida, Arkansas and
Alabama, opposing any legalization program.

Proponents say that if the administration allows the timetable for sending the
proposal to Congress to stretch out too far into next year, Mr. Bush will put
Mr. Fox in a difficult bind and will lose legislative momentum.

"If Republicans don't move on this, and don't find some leadership from the
White House, Democrats will seize on it," said Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska
Republican. "It would be almost folly to let this slip through our fingers."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 2, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dismissed Immigrants Say the System Betrayed Them

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 31


For more than four months, they worked without pay and lived in squalid
conditions. When they finally demanded their back wages, they were dismissed.

Now, virtually broke and living in immigrant quarters in Longmont, Colo., as
guests of Boulder County, 14 Mexican quarry workers who entered the United
States legally with temporary work visas have hired lawyers to help them fight
for what they say they are owed and for the right to remain in this country to
work.

"These guys did everything right," said Mario Hernandez, the spokesman for the
Mexican consulate in Denver. "They followed the rules but had only a very bad
experience to show for it."

The workers' unpleasant experience with their employer is unusual. Most
foreigners who obtain temporary nonagricultural work visas each year to enter
the United States receive them only with assurances that their employer will pay
proper wages and provide suitable housing, as federal immigration laws require.
The government issues no more than 66,000 such visas, known as H2B, in a year.

But in a case that shows how legal migrants sometimes encounter the same kinds
of exploitation that illegal immigrants have complained about for years, the men
say they received a small fraction of what they were promised, just a few
dollars for food, and were forced to live in what Chuck Stout, the Boulder
County health director, called "atrocious, unsanitary living conditions."

Whether the problem is widespread is unclear. Mr. Hernandez said this was not
"an isolated case, but it's not part of a plague, either." He added, "We really
don't know how many workers are here with these kinds of visas."

Crystal Williams, a lawyer with the American Immigration Lawyers Association in
Washington, agreed that the situation involving the quarry workers was unusual
but happened periodically. A spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, Elaine Komis, said the agency did not keep track of legal foreign
workers who lose their jobs.

One lawyer for the men in Longmont, Dana Matthews, said she was considering
filing a lawsuit against the quarry owner, Randy Perdue, who recruited 29 men
from their home state, Queretaro, in central Mexico, early this year and
promised to pay them at least $10 an hour. Mr. Hernandez said the other 15 men
have either returned to Mexico or left the area.

But Mr. Stout, armed with a search warrant to investigate conditions at the
quarry, said Mr. Perdue changed the deal once the workers arrived, telling them
they would be paid according to the amount of stone they mined and the grade as
Mr. Perdue determined.

Mr. Stout also said the men's living conditions violated local and state health
regulations. He said that the company provided dilapidated trailers and
recreational vehicles with no septic systems for the workers' sleeping quarters
and two portable toilets that were overflowing on the day he and the other
inspectors arrived. As a result, he said, the men had begun using two nearby
gullies for their sanitary needs.

"The environmental conditions were awful," Mr. Stout said.

A call to Mr. Perdue for comment was referred to his lawyer, John McKendree, who
said that accusations that his client did not pay the men and that they lived in
poor conditions were "overblown allegations based on I don't know what."

Mr. McKendree said that Mr. Perdue paid the men and would have paid them more
had he not lost a customer.

Mr. Perdue's promise of jobs enabled the men to secure H2B visas, which allow
workers to remain in the country as long as a year. Typically, many Mexican
workers enter the United States -- legally or illegally -- to earn money to send
to their families. But the visas are issued for one employer, so once Mr. Perdue
dismissed the Mexicans, they were in the country illegally.

Ms. Matthews and others working on behalf of the men said that in addition to
possible legal action against Mr. Perdue, the workers would try to convince the
federal government that the workers should not lose their visas over the broken
promises of an employer. That entails convincing the Department of Labor that
another employer is willing to hire the men -- one stepped forward this week,
another quarry owner -- and requesting that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service expedite the process of extending their visas, a request that normally
can take as long as five months to satisfy.

Ms. Komis said that the immigration service can extend the visas for another
year but that no H2B holder can remain in the country more than three years.

Judy Sprague, a quarry owner from Berthold, Colo., who hires H2B visa holders,
said she was willing to do all the paperwork that would allow the men to remain
in the United States, working for her.

"I've had only wonderful experiences with these people," she said. "I have to do
something to help these guys."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Claudio Servin, one of 14 Mexican workers fired by a Colorado
quarry owner after demanding back pay, in the room he shares with others waiting
to learn if they will be allowed to continue working in the United States.
(Ernie Leyba for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2001 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

MEXICO PRESIDENT URGES U.S. TO ACT SOON ON MIGRANTS

BYLINE:   By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5


Making the first state visit of the Bush administration, President Vicente Fox
of Mexico today urged the United States to commit to a speedy timetable for
agreement this year on broad, politically sensitive proposals for the treatment
of millions of illegal Mexican immigrants.

Among the proposals being discussed by high-level officials in both governments
is one that would give legal status to some of the 3.5 million Mexicans working
illegally in the United States.

"We must, and we can, reach an agreement on migration before the end of this
very year," Mr. Fox said, "which will allow us, before the end of our respective
terms, to make sure that there are no Mexicans who have not entered this country
legally, and that those Mexicans who have come into the country do so with the
proper documents."

Offered within the first hour of his arrival at the White House, President Fox's
challenge did not surprise Mr. Bush's top aides, who said they were aware of Mr.
Fox's desire. But it did add a new sense of urgency to an issue that faces a
significant fight from conservative political forces in the United States.

Aides to Mr. Fox, the first Mexican president to be elected from the political
opposition, said the statement, made on the South Lawn, was aimed at making
clear that while Mexico is willing to take time to forge a new immigration
agreement that benefits both countries, it does not intend to let the
negotiations drag on for years.

The statement differed from Mr. Fox's earlier statements about the timetable for
a deal on immigration. To some political analysts, it seemed too ambitious a
goal, though bold pronouncements against the odds have become the signature of
Mr. Fox's public discourse. A year ago, the last time Mr. Fox visited
Washington, as president-elect, he stirred imaginations by urging the United
States to make the border more open to the flow of workers.

In welcoming President Fox to the White House, Mr. Bush spoke only in general
terms about the negotiations, saying Mexico and the United States "must work in
a spirit of respect and common purpose."

But in an afternoon briefing with reporters, his national security adviser,
Condoleezza Rice, stopped short of committing the White House to a deal this
year. She emphasized that President Bush had to negotiate immigration agreements
with Congress and various political and business sectors, saying the discussions
involved "a lot of moving parts."

"We are going to work as hard and as fast as we can to achieve the goal," she
said. "But as both presidents have emphasized, we do not only want to make a
deal, we want to do it right."

The welcoming ceremony for President Fox was replete with a 21-gun salute and a
Revolutionary War-era marching band. President Bush called the visit
"recognition that the United States has no more important relationship in the
world than the one we have with Mexico," language that past presidents have
usually reserved for Britain and Japan.

Breaking comfortably into Spanish, President Bush said, "El que tiene un buen
vecino, tiene un buen amigo" -- "He who has a good neighbor has a good friend."

President Bush's opening words also emphasized the importance of strengthening
social and cultural ties, rather than the fight against drug trafficking and
Mexico's struggle against corruption, another departure from the typical
discourse between past presidents.

Tonight Mr. Bush entertained Mr. Fox and his new wife, Marta Sahagun de Fox, his
former press secretary, at a state dinner.

For his part, President Fox underscored that Mexico has become one of the United
States' most important trading partners, second only to Canada, and contended
that immigrants have fueled economic growth on both sides of the border.

He pressed the United States government to quickly "build new conditions of
fairness" for undocumented Mexican immigrants "whose hard work is a daily
contribution to the prosperity of this great nation."

Calling immigrants "national heroes," Mr. Fox has made immigration issues a
priority for his nine-month old government. Mr. Bush, to the surprise of many of
his Republican supporters, has done the same, entertaining ideas about
legalizing migrant workers that go beyond anything previously considered in
Washington.

Aides to President Fox said it was important for the presidents to reach a
formal agreement on immigration this year so that it could be presented to their
respective congresses before the spring, particularly before the start of the
2002 campaigns in the United States. The Senate is currently controlled by
Democrats, from whom Mr. Fox expects greater support for the immigration
proposals.

But the complexities of getting a deal done quickly -- if at all -- became clear
as soon as talks began this spring between Secretary of State Colin L. Powell
and Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge G. Castaneda.

Mr. Bush's aides realize that the notion of accepting some of the millions of
Mexican workers believed to be in the country illegally could raise enormous
opposition among conservatives in Congress. The economic downturn has further
narrowed Mr. Bush's options, while making the relief valve of sending workers
north all the more important to Mr. Fox.

In recent days Mr. Bush's aides have become vague about the talks, which cover
everything from control of the border, to expanded guest-worker programs, to
what would amount to an amnesty for some illegal workers. But President Bush has
said he would never issue a "blanket amnesty."

Adding to the White House's problems are growing protests by other immigrant
groups about the favoritism inherent in special deals for Mexicans.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2001



CORRECTION: A front-page article yesterday about the visit of President Vicente
Fox of Mexico referred incorrectly in some copies to Democratic control in
Congress. The Democrats control the Senate, not the House.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the White House yesterday, President Vicente Fox of Mexico,
second from right, and his wife, Marta Sahagun de Fox, left, were met by
President Bush and his wife, Laura. It was the Bushes' first state visit. (Paul
Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing The Americas: Mexico: Election Overturned

BYLINE:  By Tim Weiner (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 72 words


Andres Bermudez, a Mexican immigrant who built a multimillion-dollar tomato
business in the United States, then returned to his tiny hometown and won
election as mayor in July, was stripped of his victory by an electoral court.
Mr.

Bermudez was legally a resident of the United States, not the hamlet of Jerez,
in Zacatecas, the court ruled. The residency requirement was a year; Mr.
Bermudez was four months shy.   Tim Weiner (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ghosts of Ellis Island

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 495 words


The Ellis Island Immigration Museum recalls a time when this deserted patch of
earth in New York Harbor was teeming with immigrants waiting to be processed and
sent ashore as Americans. The two million people who visit the museum each year
spend an hour or so among the exhibits and then leave, unaware that they have
seen just one of 33 buildings that make up the sprawling but largely forgotten
Ellis Island complex. The hospital buildings on the south side of the island
were fenced off long ago to protect tourists from falling bricks, collapsing
timbers and passageways that were knee-deep in dangerous debris. Temporary
repairs have gotten under way. But until permanent restoration is undertaken,
these magnificent buildings and the stories they have to tell are in danger of
being swept away.

The most startling part of the world inside the fence is the psychiatric
hospital, to which government officials dispatched immigrants who were -- or at
least appeared to be -- mentally ill. The sun porch of what was called the
Psychopathic Ward is enclosed by a rusting wrought iron cage right out of a
prison camp. The rooms are still eerily fitted with rusting beds and have cages
over the doors, windows and even over the electric fans that were used to cool
the place. The 29 buildings in this complex are mainly hospitals where new
immigrants were sent to give birth, to be treated for curable illness or to die
of illnesses that had no cure.

The deaths and sickness are hardly surprising given that many immigrants arrived
here after weeks at sea in steerage, the cramped, windowless bottom section of
the ship. The typical accommodation was a space with several hundred beds no
more than two feet wide, crammed so tightly together that there was barely room
for the passengers to stand. With no ventilation, and sanitary facilities
inadequate, the air quickly became foul and stayed that way. As a presidential
report said in 1911, the filth in steerage compartments made it "a marvel that
human flesh could endure it."

Despite the deterioration, the hospital complex remains a handsome example of
the golden age of public architecture, with copper gutters, skylights clad in
terra cotta and interior doorways trimmed out in marble. Walking these ghostly
hallways, from the nursery to the operating room to the morgue, one feels
vividly the terror of immigrant people who had traveled thousands of miles in
hardship only to be confined here for weeks while the government decided whether
they would be sent back or allowed in.

After decades of neglect, stabilizing repairs will keep the buildings standing
while the National Park Service develops a restoration plan, and a
not-for-profit group, Save Ellis Island, raises the money to finance it. With
the cost estimated at $300 million, that effort has a long way to go. But the
story of immigration is at the core of the American identity, and the buildings
that help tell this chapter should not be lost.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

FOLLOWING UP

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 586 words


A Son's Murder, A Mother's Nightmare

For Devorah Halberstam, "it's still a living nightmare" -- that searing moment
seven years ago when she learned that her 16-year-old son, Aaron, had been shot
on the Brooklyn Bridge, and the four days he lingered in a hospital before he
died.

In March 1994, in a spillover of the Middle East tensions, Aaron Halberstam,
known as Ari, was shot when a livery-cab driver opened fire on a van filled with
Hasidic yeshiva students while they were crossing the bridge. Two other students
were wounded in the attack, which touched off international headlines.

The gunman, Rashid Baz, a Lebanese immigrant, was convicted of murder and
attempted murder and is serving a 141-year prison sentence. Prosecutors said he
had acted in retaliation for the massacre of Muslim worshipers in Hebron, in the
West Bank, by a Jewish settler from Brooklyn.

The verdict and punishment did not abate Mrs. Halberstam's persistence in
pursuing what she deemed full justice.

She unsuccessfully sought more than the sentences of probation given to two men
who had pleaded guilty to having helped Mr. Baz hide evidence, though
prosecutors said there was no indication the men had conspired in the shooting
and their lawyers said they had acted out of fear. She refused to accept the
state prosecutors' conclusion that Mr. Baz had not acted as part of a conspiracy
and she pressed for a federal investigation -- which reached the same conclusion
as state prosecutors did.

"I still don't believe he acted alone," Mrs. Halberstam, 45, said last week from
Crown Heights in Brooklyn, where she lives and works in the Lubavitcher Hasidic
community. But she said the federal inquiry had led the Justice Department to
classify the shooting as a terrorist act, and "this is very important to me
personally."

These days, she still makes public appearances to support antiterrorism causes.
And she works to perpetuate the memory of the first-born of her five children.
The Brooklyn Bridge ramp where Mr. Baz began shooting is now the Ari Halberstam
Memorial Ramp, and Mrs. Halberstam is raising money for a $19.5 million Jewish
Children's Museum, which is under construction in Crown Heights and will be
dedicated to Ari's memory.

But even as she speaks vigorously about such projects, Mrs. Halberstam quickly
begins weeping when the conversation turns to her underlying loss. "To raise a
child to have him murdered," she said, "makes you wish you didn't have to live."


A New Use For an Old Home

Not surprisingly, the spotlight is on the new homes, not the one left behind.

Since the National Museum of the American Indian left its old quarters, above,
in Upper Manhattan in 1994, the public focus has been on its current home in the
former Custom House in Lower Manhattan and on a second new home under
construction in Washington. But, without fanfare, plans are also taking shape
for the Indian museum's former building.

The Hispanic Society of America, which is next door in a complex of Beaux-Arts
buildings called Audubon Terrace, at Broadway and 155th Street, bought the
vacated building in 1996. It uses it for storage, conservation activities and
the like, but plans to convert much of it into additional exhibition space for
the society's collection of artworks and rare books.

First, though, funds must be raised for that and for renovating the society's
original building, said Mitchell A. Codding, the society's director. Costs have
not been determined, he said, and "it will be several years" before work begins.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 13, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE ATTACKS: VOICES;
Shock and Anger Among Arab-Americans

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Sept. 12


Sara Saleh's eyes were red and puffy below the blue and white kerchief that
covered her hair, and she looked exhausted as she sat in the waiting room of an
Arab community center in this Detroit suburb. "I pray to God they catch whoever
did this and kill them," said Mrs.

Saleh, an immigrant from Lebanon.

Mrs. Saleh's reaction was typical in this community, a center of Arab-American
culture since the 1950's.

"I'm Arab, but if the Arabs did it, then I'm ashamed," said Hanan Nehmeh, 46, a
receptionist who immigrated from Lebanon in 1978 and wore a dark green kerchief.
"But if some Arabs did it, you can't say all Arabs are bad."

Mrs. Nehmeh said she had volunteered to work at a polling station for the
primary elections held here on Tuesday, and was shocked at some comments made by
non-Arabs who were voting.

"I heard them say, 'All Arabs should go back, they don't belong here,' " she
said.

Noman Obeid, a recent immigrant from Yemen who speaks no English, was angry over
the attacks and said, "Whoever did it, they should punish them."

As Mr. Obeid spoke, his 3-year-old son, Wassam, looked on. Then, unprompted, the
boy broke his silence and started to recite the alphabet -- in English.   KEITH
BRADSHER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hanah Nehmeh, 46, said: 'I'm Arab, but if the Arabs did it, then
I'm ashamed. But if some Arabs did it, you can't say all Arabs are bad.'
(Bridget A. Barrett for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 14, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE NORTHERN NEIGHBOR;
U.S. Seeks Canada's Reassurance on Security

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Sept. 13


Canada and the United States, which have often differed over the treatment of
asylum seekers, refugees and immigrants, may be drawn closer to common policies
after the terror attacks on New York and the Pentagon this week, the Canadian
foreign minister said today.

Foreign Minister John Manley said it was still too soon after the disaster to
talk in detail about common policies. On Wednesday, the United States ambassador
to Canada, Paul Cellucci, called for a kind of "security parameter" around all
of North America to prevent would-be terrorists from entering the region.

"But I think that all of us recognize that things changed on Tuesday," Mr.
Manley said today from his office in Ottawa, "and that there will be an
increased level of concern over security in the United States, and that we will
need to insure that the U.S. government is satisfied that we are taking adequate
security precautions in light of what will be a heightened level of concern."

Pressure for such cooperation has been mounting since the North American Free
Trade Agreement, and the Canadian-American pact that preceded it, opened
borders. This week, reports that at least two of the suspected terrorists
involved in the attacks entered the United States from Canada heightened the
sentiment.

"As long as whoever it was who came in, came in from the outside -- or even if
it proves to be somebody entirely domestic -- one of the effects is going to be
looking at how porous, or not, the borders are," said David Mutimer of the
Center for International and Security Studies at York University in Toronto.

"The choices," he said, "are going to be put to us as either you tighten up your
external borders, or we're going to have to tighten up the U.S.-Canada border,
because if you're not going to do it on your side, we are going to do it on our
side."

Canada extends considerable legal protection and support to asylum seekers, and
many who do not pass the test never get deported, experts say. In December 1999,
Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian, was intercepted in Washington State with explosives
intended to blow up Los Angeles airport. He had been living here in Montreal
after being turned down for asylum.

In recent years not only the United States but also several European countries,
India and Sri Lanka have all been critical of what their officials see as a
growing Canadian haven for a host of rebels and their fund-raisers. Quebec
Province, with a policy of luring French-speaking immigrants under essentially
pro-separatist governments, has created large communities of Arab francophones
into which terrorists can meld, experts said today.

Many Canadians fear that bringing their asylum or immigration policies in line
with those of the United States will mean hardening the Canadian heart. The
country prides itself on its reputation as a more welcoming land with better
refugee protection, at least in recent years, than the United States.

Some conservatives have criticized that attitude as soft-hearted naivete. "With
friends like us" was the title of an editorial today in The National Post, a
conservative newspaper very critical of the government.

Both Ambassador Cellucci and Mr. Manley said that there was still no certainty
that any terrorists responsible for the attacks on Tuesday had been in Canada.
Mr. Manley was adamant on that point today.

"We've asked through every available channel, including security agencies and
our embassy, for any indication that they could confirm some of the news reports
that some suspects may have entered the United States from Canada," he said. "We
have been told that there is no such evidence at the present time. Which is not
to say they didn't."

In any event, Mr. Manley added, Canadian and American officials may discuss
harmonizing their policies in coming days and weeks.

"Prior to Tuesday, after a number of responses that were taken following the
Ressam case, we understood that everyone was satisfied," he said. "Whether
that's changed is another matter."

Mr. Manley noted that more than 100 Canadians had also died in Tuesday's attacks
and that many Canadians work in New York. "It's not in the interests of the
Canadian government to be an easy access point for people who would commit acts
of terrorism," he said. So, I don't know that what's required is harmonizing,
but I don't think that we should have any difficulty if we take measures that
our own people are going to expect us to take in satisfying the U.S.
government."

"Our foreign policy is not going to be dictated by terrorists," he said. "We
follow a policy which sometimes is very much in sync with the United States,
sometimes disagrees with the United States. It's not going to be determined
according to fear."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trucks were backed up for nine miles outside Windsor, Ontario,
yesterday as border searches slowed traffic. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE INVESTIGATION;
F.B.I. Was Seeking 2 of the Hijacking Suspects at the Time of the Attacks

BYLINE:  By DAVID JOHNSTON and NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1460 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15


Two of the men believed to have hijacked the plane that crashed into the
Pentagon on Tuesday were known to the authorities as associates of Osama bin
Laden and had been sought in the United States since August by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, law enforcement and intelligence officials said today.

Officials said the two men, Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hamzi, used their own
names to buy airline tickets and board American Airlines Flight 77, which left
Dulles International Airport and slammed into the Pentagon.

Today, even as it appeared that the government had been unable to keep up with
the two bin Laden followers, Attorney General John Ashcroft said the
investigation was "developing a kind of clarity" as the authorities pieced
together the lives and recent movements of the 19 men and their ground-based
accomplices.

The passport of one hijacker was found today several blocks from the World Trade
Center, prompting an intensive search for evidence in the area, Barry W. Mawn,
who heads the F.B.I.'s New York office, said. The hijacker was not identified.

Twenty-five people have been arrested on immigration violations as part of the
investigation, a government official said today. None have been formally
charged, either on immigration counts or with crimes relating to the hijackings
of four planes that crashed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and in
Pennsylvania, the official said. Some of the people detained lived in New
Jersey, officials said.

Investigators have interviewed all of those in custody, and some are
cooperating. Among the 25 are 2 men arrested on Wednesday at an Amtrak station
in Fort Worth. They were interviewed by F.B.I. agents and flown to New York.

The men, Ayub Ali Khan, 51, and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47, who were traveling
to San Antonio, were removed from a train in what the authorities said was a
routine drug search. The men were found to have box cutters and about $5,000.
Hijackers aboard Tuesday's flights used box cutters and knives to commandeer the
aircraft, officials said.

In the case of Mr. al-Mihdhar and Mr. al-Hamzi, intelligence officials said they
alerted immigration authorities nearly two months ago that the men might try to
enter the United States. But when immigration records were checked, officials
learned that the men had already entered the United States. Both arrived at Los
Angeles International Airport on Saudi passports, the officials said.

Mr. al-Mihdhar had been seen in January 2000 at a meeting of suspected
terrorists in Malaysia that was under surveillance by American intelligence,
officials said. After the bombing of the Navy destroyer Cole last October,
intelligence analysts began to review possible suspects from that meeting.

In August, intelligence officials advised the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to place Mr. al-Mihdhar on a watch list to bar entry into the United
States, along with Mr. al-Hamzi, because the two men had traveled to the United
States together in the past. The F.B.I. was alerted after officials learned they
were already in the country, but the agency could not find them.

Last year, Mr. al-Mihdhar and Mr. al-Hamzi rented rooms from a retired professor
in suburban San Diego, The Los Angeles Times reported today. The professor,
Abdussattar Shaikh, told the paper that Mr. al-Hamzi had lived with him from
September to December and that Mr. al-Mihdhar had shared the room in September.

Another of the men believed to be on the flight that crashed into the Pentagon,
Hani Hanjoor, attended the CRM Airline Training Center in Scottsdale, Ariz., in
1996 and in December 1997. Each time, he tried to qualify for a private pilot's
certificate and each time he failed.

"He'd be late; he wouldn't show up; he was unprepared; he didn't do his
homework," said Paul V. Blair, controller of CRM. "He didn't seem like he was
committed to being an airline pilot."

As the outlines of the plot began to emerge, law enforcement officials said they
were disturbed by wide gaps in their knowledge of the operation, most
significantly whether other hijacking teams might still be at large in the
United States.

The officials said they had investigated whether hijackers were aboard other
flights on Tuesday and failed to carry out their missions or stayed on the
ground preparing for a second wave of attacks. So far, investigators have
established that other men associated with the hijackers received flight
training in Florida. Those men cannot be accounted for.

Justice Department officials said today that they had obtained a second warrant
in New York for a material witness in the investigation. Mindy Tucker, the
Justice Department spokeswoman, said the warrant was issued by a federal court
in New York under seal.

The first material witness was a man of Middle Eastern descent who was stopped
on Thursday night at Kennedy International Airport with a fake pilot's license.

A law enforcement official said the man, whose identity has not been released,
had "a direct link" to Osama bin Laden and to Mr. bin Laden's brother. The man
was not cooperating, the official said. The man was also said to have used an
address in the Boston area associated with people who may have been involved in
the hijackings.

American and European law enforcement officials said today that they were
examining whether any associates of Osama bin Laden may have tried to profit
from the attacks by trading in put options or short-selling particular stocks,
like reinsurance companies or airlines.

Those kinds of trading are techniques for betting that a stock price will
decline. American securities regulators said they had been contacted by German
officials who were examining short-sales in three large European reinsurance
companies whose stock plummeted inexplicably before the attacks.

Officials in Washington emphasized that they had no evidence of such kinds of
insider trading but concluded that there should be a review of any significant
and suspicious options trading or short-selling.

The authorities have distributed to other law enforcement agencies the names of
100 people, including suspected accomplices.

Several cities and regions in the country are emerging as focal points of the
investigation, principally the cities where the flights originated or crashed
and Florida, where a number of the hijackers apparently received flight
training.

Law enforcement officials in New York and northern New Jersey were tracing the
movements made by several terrorists before the attacks and examining possible
support activities in the area, officials said.

On Wednesday, the F.B.I. searched the Marriott Hotel at Newark Airport, where
some or all of the four hijackers of United Flight 93 are believed to have
stayed on Monday night. The plane crashed in western Pennsylvania.

In Florida, where most of the hijackers are believed to have lived, particularly
in recent months, F.B.I. agents spent three days searching a motel in Deerfield
Beach where one of the suspected hijackers, Marwan al-Shehhi, apparently lived
for two weeks before the attacks.

Richard Surma, the owner of the motel, said that on the day before the attacks
he found a black duffel bag in the trash. Inside the bag were aeronautical maps
of the East Coast, navigation equipment, books from a flight school, illustrated
martial arts books and a German-English dictionary. The bag also contained a
detailed list of airline flights and times.

Mr. Surma said the F.B.I. also found a box cutter in the room.

F.B.I. agents in New Jersey went to an apartment building in Jersey City today
to ask about the two men arrested on Wednesday on the Amtrak train in Texas.

The authorities believe that the men had lived at 6 Tonnele Avenue in Jersey
City. Residents said the agents broke into the apartment.

Several residents said they knew little about the men. They said the agents
arrested a Syrian truck driver who lived in the building and whose passport had
expired. Other residents said they saw four to five people leaving with the
agents.

Three New Jersey men who were arrested outside Newark Airport on Thursday are
being questioned by F.B.I. agents to determine if they have information about
the World Trade Center attack, federal agents said today.

The men, who lived in Passaic, were arrested by Elizabeth police late Thursday,
carrying $11,000 and one-way tickets to Syria, Mayor Chris Bollwage of Elizabeth
said.

The police turned the men over to the F.B.I. and Secret Service, Mr. Bollwage
said. The men, who lived at the same address in Passaic, were identified as
Ahmad Kilfat, 45, Mohammad Mahmoud Al Raqqad, 37, and Nicholas Makrakis, 27.

Sandra Carroll, a spokeswoman for the F.B.I. in Newark, said the men were in
custody, but would not say why they were being questioned.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE HIDDEN VICTIMS;
Those at Towers' Margin Elude List of Missing

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1020 words


Most of the people listed as missing in the twin towers disaster were part of
the World Trade Center's life as an elite corporate community. Determining who
was missing among them after the terrorist attack, however painful, would not be
that hard. And the most prominent would be mourned with much eloquence.

But in the self-contained city that the trade center truly was, there were also
many people -- undocumented immigrant deliverymen and Albanian window washers,
Polish maintenance workers and single men and women without close family -- who
may not appear on formal personnel records or whose absence might simply not
register with enough people that someone would come forward to search. And the
mourning for the immigrants with families, but without glamorous jobs, would be
done in near anonymity.

And so the excruciating effort to fully document the dead that has gone on since
last Tuesday, so far only modestly successful, will be all the more difficult
when it comes to the universe of people who worked at the trade center's margins
or inhabited its huge informal economy.

Part of the culture of the trade center, for example, depended on Mexicans and
other immigrants -- many of them men supporting families back home -- who
hustled breakfast orders to corporate offices, carried flowers to secretaries
and washed dishes in the concourse restaurants. Estimates of the number of these
workers who were in the towers last Tuesday morning range from a few dozen to as
many as 10 or 15 times that number, according to a group that has been formed to
search and interview survivors.

Some of the lost seem barely to have been known.

Carlos Bravo, a 26-year-old Mexican immigrant, was making pizzas at Akbar's
Greenhouse Cafe, on the street level beneath the trade towers when disaster
struck, and he escaped. Only a few minutes before, however, he said he saw two
food delivery workers with orders for the office workers on the higher floors.
Both were immigrants, Mr. Bravo said -- one of them here illegally.

All Mr. Bravo knew about them was their first names and a few sparse facts:
Humberto was married with a daughter and lived in Queens; Patricio, an
Ecuadorean whose girlfriend was pregnant. "I never saw them again," Mr. Bravo
said.

Various efforts are under way to document the undocumented -- to attach names,
faces and perhaps stories to the invisible uncounted. The Polish Consulate in
New York, for example, has been trying to find seven people -- all Polish
citizens -- who were working at the trade center doing maintenance work. A
spokesman for the consulate said that information from survivors suggests that
all seven made it out, but no direct word has been received.

A group called the Tepeyac Association of New York -- an umbrella group of 40
Mexican immigrant organizations -- has put together a list of 29 Mexicans who
are missing. But the group's executive director, Brother Joel Magallan, said he
feared the number could be much higher based on survivor's reports. But he
admits the numbers are pure speculation -- most Mexicans in New York, he said,
are undocumented, and many work in the city's cash economy where paperwork is
kept to the minimum.

But there are many other immigrants who were caught in the terror of the trade
center disaster whose stories have remained mostly untold -- people who came to
America to escape poverty, repression and war, and who made lives in mostly
humble jobs.

The service employees union local that represents about 1,000 maintenance
workers at the twin towers has done an intensive phone canvas and found that 28
of its members are missing.

Jan Demczur, an immigrant from Poland who washed windows at the trade center,
said his friend, Roko Camaj, adored his job, working on the roof of the north
tower to maneuver the machinery that washed the building's 46,300 windows. Mr.
Camaj, a 60-year-old ethnic Albanian who immigrated from Yugoslavia, loved
working so high up, often telling his children that he felt he could touch the
sky.

"I can't imagine Roko's gone," Mr. Demczur said. "He was so happy that he had
this job. He said, 'Nobody is going to take my job from me. I'm doing to die
here.' And he died there."

Many immigrants coveted maintenance jobs at the trade center because the pay was
considered excellent for unskilled workers -- at least $32,000 a year before
overtime.

Raysa Rodriguez, the sister of Esmerlin Salcedo, a 36-year-old security guard
from the Dominican Republic, said one of his co-workers told her that Mr.
Salcedo went back inside the towers after helping her escape. Mr. Salcedo, who
had applied to become a police officer and was taking computer courses, left
behind a wife, a 5-year-old daughter, a 4-year-old daughter and a 1-year-old
son. "Like every other immigrant, he came for a better life," his sister said.
"He achieved a better life."

Alexa Ortiz said her mother, Sonia, who immigrated from Colombia in 1971, was
delighted to land a job as a trade center janitor two years later.

"It paid good," she said. "Her English wasn't good and it was a job where she
didn't have to talk much."

Eventually she was promoted to run the freight elevator at Windows on the World,
the restaurant near the top of 1 World Trade. "She was so excited working in
such a tall building near the sky," said Sonia's son, Victor, a building
painter. "She had so much pride that King Kong was made there. She said she met
Michael Jackson one day."

Through hard work and frugality, Sonia Ortiz, 58, bought a handsome, brick home
in Flushing, where she lived with Alexa. In the dining room, Sonia had Lladro
sculptures of fairy tale characters and place mats with angels, and in the
living room, she had a gilded mirror and a coffee table made of petrified wood.

Alexa, who works as an assistant in a medical office, said her mother came to
New York to escape poverty, after having worked as a seamstress as a child in
Colombia. "She loved it here," said Alexa. After the 1993 trade center bombing,
Sonia, known for her optimism, dismissed the idea of renewed terrorism, her
children said. Colombia, they all agreed, was far more dangerous.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sonia Ortiz's children, Alexa and Victor, said she loved
working at the trade center, where she ran the Windows on the World freight
elevator.; Roko Camaj is searching for his father, Vincent, who worked on the
World Trade Center's roof, maneuvering window washers' scaffolds.; Sal
Gjonbalaj, left, and his brother Selim hold a picture of their missing father,
Mon, who was a window washer at the World Trade Center. (Photographs by Rebecca
Cooney for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain to Tighten Controls On Its Air and Sea Borders

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 555 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 19


Britain said today that it would tighten border controls to reduce the number of
people seeking asylum here and to deter terrorists after the attacks on New York
and Washington.

The home secretary, David Blunkett, said the newest controls would include
scanners to be installed on both sides of the English Channel that would be
capable of detecting people hidden in vehicles. He said more immigration
officers would be deployed at the French terminal of the Channel Tunnel to help
stem the flow of illegal crossings, and that closed circuit television cameras,
currently in use at London's Gatwick Airport, would also be installed at
Heathrow Airport. He said, detention centers would be expanded to make room for
asylum-seekers whose applications are rejected.

The announcement reflected fears that terrorists could turn on Britain because
it is a close ally in Washington's effort to build an international coalition
against terrorism. With European justice and interior ministers set to meet
Thursday in Brussels, Mr. Blunkett urged broader security measures to control
the growing flow of fugitives in Western Europe.

Speaking in the channel port of Dover, Mr. Blunkett said the pressure on
Europe's borders "is not just a problem limited to Britain but it is a global
issue of international mobility, which the uncertainties created by the horrific
attack on the United States last week will accelerate."

Even before the suicide attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the
sight of scores of fugitive Afghans, Iranians and Kurds trying to enter Britain
unlawfully through the Channel Tunnel from France had led the authorities to
seek stronger measures to block them.

The Conservative opposition has taunted the government to prove that it is not a
"soft touch" for asylum-seekers apparently drawn to Britain by the prospect of
jobs. In many European countries asylum-seekers are not permitted to find paid
work, but in Britain they may work after an initial six-month wait for their
applications for sanctuary to be processed.

Civil rights groups have criticized the authorities for detaining some
asylum-seekers while they seek approval of their applications for refuge and for
practices including giving asylum-seekers vouchers rather than cash to buy food
and other essentials while they await a hearing.

Last year, more than 80,000 people applied for asylum in Britain.

The authorities said today that some 43,130 applications were still being
processed, twice as many as the government previously acknowledged but far fewer
than the 103,000 it acknowledged in January 2000.

Since last week's attacks in the United States, there have been a

handful of anti-American demonstrations by British-based Muslim groups that are
under surveillance, according to the British police. The demonstrations have
been condemned by mainstream Muslim groups. "Anyone who advocates, incites,
organizes or trains people to kill others in this country will be picked up,"
Mr. Blunkett said today.

Unlike Britain, many European Union countries are signers of the so-called
Schengen agreement permitting free movement without passports across internal
borders such as those, say, between Germany and the Netherlands. British
officials have said in the past that the system encourages free movements by
terrorists or criminals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: ARAB IMMIGRANTS;
Arab-Americans Are Finding New Tolerance Amid the Turmoil

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Sept. 20


Before the e-mail note that explained how a "good Arab" is a dead one buried in
pigskin, before the bomb threat that briefly closed his office and before young
white men in a car threatened to kill him, Ismael Ahmed got an urgent telephone
call.

The chairman of the Ford Motor Company, William Clay Ford Jr., wanted a meeting.

Calling just hours after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 and outrunning
eruptions of anti-Arab hate that would soon bubble up across the country, Mr.
Ford wanted to talk at once with local Arab-American leaders. He wanted to know
what he and his company could do to ease their fears. Indeed, senior people at
the company shared those fears. Jacques A. Nasser, the chief executive of Ford,
was born in Lebanon.

"What that phone call meant is that Arab-Americans are part of the fabric of the
Detroit area, in fact, part of the fabric of the entire country," said Mr.
Ahmed, executive director of Access, an organization that provides social
services here for a large and growing community of Arab immigrants.

As for incidents of brown-skinned people being kicked off commercial airplanes,
assaults and three killings in Arizona, California and Texas -- all of which
appear to be part of a backlash against Arab-Americans and other people who
might look like them -- Mr. Ahmed shook his head in disgust during an interview
here this week.

"I feel sorry for people who don't understand yet what America has become," he
said, referring to Americans who scapegoat their countrymen based on skin color
or religion. "For them, I'm afraid, life is going to be miserable."

The country's national political and business leadership does understand, Mr.
Ahmed and several other prominent Arab-Americans said. In the decade since the
Persian Gulf war, something fundamental has changed, they said, in official
attitudes toward Arab-Americans and Islam.

Demands for ethnic and religious tolerance, especially from President Bush in
his nationally televised speech to Congress and his visit to a Washington
mosque, are driven by necessity, as well as by a sense of fair play.
Arab-Americans are important voting blocs in California, Illinois, Michigan, New
Jersey and New York. As Mr. Nasser's position at Ford suggests, they are also
integrated into the country's power structure.

Statements by President Bush and other leaders appear to be having a substantial
effect on moderating the behavior of Americans, said Ziad Asali, president of
the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the largest Arab-American group
in the country.

"The tone of the country's leader -- all officials, at all levels, including law
enforcement -- is exactly the right tone," Dr. Asali said, "and it is carrying
clout with the public.

"In the past few days since the reports of race-motivated murders, we have heard
substantially fewer complaints from our constituents. We are receiving much,
much less hate mail. We are quite gratified."

Dr. Asali said admonitions from Mr. Bush and other national and state leaders
had helped isolate and shame those who might attack Arab-Americans.

"It has cast the extremists as just that -- extremists," Dr. Asali said.

A look at census figures, civil rights laws and standards of political discourse
shows how complicated -- and illegal, and politically unacceptable -- it has
become to single out enemies based merely on dark skin, religious belief or a
turban.

In large measure, several demographers said, it is because the country has in
the past two decades soaked up the largest waves of nonwhite immigration in its
history. Of the country's 30 million foreign-born residents, only one in four is
white.

Arab-Americans and other residents who bear a skin-deep resemblance to them are
increasingly part of the nation's power structure.

After the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt
ordered more than 100,000 Japanese-Americans into camps surrounded by
barbed-wire fences.

About 99 percent of the country's foreign-born residents were white in 1940,
compared with just 25 percent now. Immigrants then were concentrated in a few
major cities in the East and upper Midwest.

In the 2000 census, about one million Americans reported that they are of Arab
descent and 10 million identified themselves as Asian-Americans.

"The demographics of America show that Arab-Americans, as well as East Indians
and other Muslims, are not going away," said Mr. Ahmed, who lives in this
Detroit suburb, where a quarter of the population is Arab-American.

That percentage is rising fast because of new immigrants from countries like
Iraq and Yemen. They tend to have large families. The inexorable power of
demographics has bulldozed new boundaries for political discourse in the Detroit
area and in other cities where Arab-Americans live and vote.

Nabeel Abraham, an anthropologist who is co-author of "Arab Detroit," said that
since the gulf war, during a decade of accelerated immigration from the Middle
East and Asia, he had observed a "phenomenal" improvement in attitudes toward
Arab-Americans in the news media and among elected officials.

"It is like night and day," Mr. Abraham said. "In the 1980's, when the Reagan
administration said it was waging war on terrorists like Libya's Qaddafi, almost
all of the government and officialdom was indifferent to Arab-Americans in this
country. Now Bush is going to a mosque. The tone is being set on top, and it is
making a difference."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 23, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: CANADA;
Chretien Under Pressure From Right and Left Over What to Give Washington

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1048 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Sept. 22


When Prime Minister Jean Chretien travels to Washington on Monday to meet
President Bush and discuss America's war against terrorism, he goes in the
knowledge that Canada is not just any other country. With its 5,525-mile open
border, it is critical to the security of the United States.

But Mr. Chretien is under intense political pressure, from both right and left,
as he faces decisions on what to promise Washington.

Hard-line conservatives want a firm military commitment abroad and a crackdown
on loose immigration and asylum policies at home. Those on the left, including
many within the prime minister's own Liberal Party, want Canada to resist
automatically following the United States into any kind of war.

Surrounding the two sides is a consuming national debate that has engulfed
Parliament and the news media, pushing aside all other issues and opening deep
divisions in public opinion. The most pressing short-term issue is whether to
contribute to an American military effort, which Canada seems prepared to do.

It is less certain whether, over the long term, Canada could or would align its
immigration, refugee and asylum policies with those of the United States. That
discussion began in the final years of the Clinton administration, but had been
resisted here as an American attempt to rewrite Canadian laws.

Canada already has a reputation for being less than vigilant about screening out
terrorists who have used it as a base of operation. Unlike the United States and
Britain, for instance, the country has refused to outlaw Tamil and Kurdish
groups that have been identified even by Canada's own intelligence services as
supporters of terrorism.

Two years ago, an Algerian would-be terrorist, Ahmed Ressam, was arrested by
American customs officials as he tried crossing the border into Washington state
with a carload of explosives to blow up Los Angeles International Airport. It
was discovered that he had been living in Montreal without fear of deportation
even though he had been turned down for asylum and was known to be dangerous.

After that incident, several Canadian government ministers say, they began to
review their antiterrorism and immigration laws. Now, Canada is almost certain
to make some changes -- though that may be difficult because provinces,
especially Quebec, run their own systems.

Justice Minister Anne McLellan told Parliament this week that the government was
rethinking a bill that would merely have stripped known terrorist groups of
their charitable status in fund-raising. The conservative political opposition
has pilloried the bill as a pathetic half measure.

But reflecting public opinion, Mr. Chretien told Parliament at the opening of an
emergency debate on Monday that he would not be stampeded into making Canada "a
fortress against the world."

The United States ambassador to Canada, Paul Cellucci, has been promoting the
idea of a "security perimeter" around all of North America, starting with the
United States and Canada, that would be designed to keep out dangerous people.
Such a system, he argued in an interview, would not hamper cross-border trade,
which he said was worth about $1.4 billion daily. But it would require
harmonizing visa and immigration rules, perhaps as part of another dimension to
the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Mr. Cellucci is also proposing the introduction of more electronic security
systems, like the devices that read handprints or scan the eyes, to speed border
crossings.

Canada, for its part, says it will tighten surveillance of small planes and
boats that cross freely between countries. The Globe and Mail reported this week
that there is now a watch list for people from 16 countries known to be
associated with terrorists.

But both American and Canadian officials acknowledge that all the open territory
between the two countries can never be completely policed.

Whether the issue was immigration and asylum laws or military cooperation,
Canadians began debating their contribution almost as soon as the extent of the
American tragedy became clear.

As elsewhere in the world, there has been a tremendous outpouring of sympathy.
Firefighters in Montreal have been flying American flags, a steady stream of
people has left flowers and candles before the American Embassy, and on the
Friday after the attacks in the United States, about 100,000 people jammed
Parliament Hill for a memorial service.

But the mood among the ordinary Canadians assembled for a "town meeting" on
Wednesday was hardly supportive of what many here fear will be a brutal and
unthinking American response.

"The U.S. created this monster!" a student from Toronto shouted into the
microphone, to applause. She was followed by Alexa McDonough, a Nova Scotian who
leads the small, leftish New Democratic Party. The United States, she said,
"doesn't have the moral authority" to go after terrorists.

Lloyd Axworthy, who was foreign minister until a year ago, said the public
response, despite its apparent divisions, would be influenced by what the
Canadian government decided to do.

"Military action may be necessary," he said in an interview, "if you've got the
right target and you're sure the consequences won't be so profoundly damaging.
But there's a lot more the coalition should be doing in terms of building an
effective architecture against terrorism."

Canada, he said, should press for United Nations Security Council backing for
any military action.

"If you really want an antidote to the extremist atmosphere the terrorists feed
on, catch whoever is responsible and bring him to trial," said Mr. Axworthy, who
has played a leading role in trying to create an international criminal court,
an idea the Bush administration strongly opposes.

"Put him in the docket, like you did with Eichmann, or Milosevic. Make them
answer publicly for their crimes," he added. "That has enormous effect on
opinion, even in the Middle Eastern countries."

While the prospect of a trial is less than certain, on the military front,
Canada's defense minister, Art Eggleton, has left little room for question. "In
the last 100 years, Canada has had to rise to the occasion in two world wars, in
Korea, in Bosnia," he said in a television interview this week.

This time, too, he added, "Canada is going to be there."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Customs officials temporarily closed the Peace Arch Border into
the United States at Surrey, Canada, after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.
(Associated Press); The Canadian prime minister, Jean Chretien. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 23, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Aftermath: Melting Pot;
Identify Yourself

BYLINE:  By GREGORY RODRIGUEZ; Gregory Rodriguez is a senior fellow at the New
America Foundation, a nonpartisan policy institute.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


AMERICAN national identity is not based on shared ancestry or common ethnic
heritage. Though it has become a dirty word in the past few decades,
assimilation -- in which people of different backgrounds come to consider
themselves part of a larger national family -- has long been the basis of
citizenship.  Because America is a nation of immigrants, its history was a
constant struggle by outsiders seeking to become insiders. Yet America's very
diversity always made it particularly uncomfortable with the idea of the
"other."

Now, the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington are making Americans more
wary of outsiders than they have been in decades -- and are having profound
implications for the debate over what it means to be American.

Assimilation was long viewed as a process of subtraction -- newcomers displayed
their loyalty by discarding the language and customs of their native lands.
Immigrants were criticized for congregating and finding mutual support.

Not until the 1960's was it permissible for immigrants to adhere to their
cultural heritages. This new understanding tested and broadened the nation's
collective notions of what it meant to be an American.  The definition of
citizenship shifted from the belief in a common culture to following shared
ideals.  Since the 1970's, multiculturalism helped nurture an unprecedented
level of public tolerance of ethnic and racial differences and new respect for
hyphenated identities.

In some quarters, a rigid form of multiculturalism also arose that challenged
the need for immigrants and other minorities to identify with America at all. By
the end of the 20th century, some scholars speculated that being American simply
meant participation in the search for wealth and stability.

Now, however, after the attacks, not only is the drive for unity bound to tilt
the nation's ethnic balance back in favor of the American side of the hyphen, it
could permanently undermine the more extreme forms of multiculturalism. In the
worst-case scenario, it could also dampen the nation's recent appreciation of
diversity.

HISTORICALLY, war and the crises associated with it have been instrumental in
terms of nation-building," said Gary Gerstle, a historian at the University of
Maryland. Before the Civil War, for example, Americans spoke of the United
States in the plural ("the United States are"), because each state was
considered a discrete unit. Only after the crucible of the war did the public
begin to refer to the nation in the singular ("the United States is").

The United States is currently experiencing a greater sense of national unity
across racial and ethnic lines than it has since the early 1960's. External
threats to any country tend to crystallize the collective identity and encourage
citizens to distinguish themselves from the enemy. Yet while wars and other
national crises have served as catalysts to unite a diverse population, they
have also incited some of the worst incidents of repression against minorities
the public associated with the enemy.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, there has been a notable number of hate crimes
against Arab-Americans and Muslims. Frightened by a wave of violence, American
Sikhs are explaining to the public that despite their turbans and beards, they
are not Muslims. President Bush visited a Washington mosque on Monday, in an
attempt to discourage retaliation against Arab-Americans. He showed that, at the
very least, wartime repression this time around would not be
government-sanctioned. But Muslim leaders are already discussing plans for
Muslim women to change the way they dress, perhaps exchanging head scarves for
hats and turtlenecks. On Monday, a woman trekked to the New York Health
Department headquarters trying to change her son's surname from "Mohammed" to
"Smith."

THE catastrophe in New York and Washington and the talk of war is already
hastening the assimilation -- in both negative and positive ways -- of
immigrants into American society. Many of the newest Americans, some of whom may
have considered themselves marginalized just weeks ago, are going to great
lengths to show solidarity with their adopted nation.

Pakistani taxi drivers in New York are displaying the Stars and Stripes in their
cabs. Last Saturday in Los Angeles, two Spanish-language radio stations hosted
thousands of Spanish-speaking immigrants at one of the city's largest solidarity
rallies. The widespread sense of a common fate is giving many immigrants a sense
of belonging to a national community.

But the hardening of the national identity also induces subtle shifts in the
country's racial and ethnic hierarchy. On Tuesday, at an alternative school in
Washington, eight black teenagers who were not strangers to the criminal justice
system expressed their anger and fear of Arab-Americans, and for the first time
spoke for the other side of the racial profiling debate. In Southern California,
a dark-complected Morrocan immigrant comforts himself with the fact that many
people assume he is Mexican, a group that felt itself under attack only a few
years ago.

"Pearl Harbor made Chinese into Americans for the first time since the 1880's,"
said Philip Kasinitz, a sociologist at the Graduate Center of the City
University of New York. "But it excluded the Japanese-Americans regardless of
how long they had been in America." In some crude way, the reforging of American
identity under fire produces winners and losers.

Perhaps in their desire to establish their credentials as insiders and to
distinguish themselves from the enemy, minority Americans are sometimes the most
zealous in excluding whoever has been deemed the new outsiders. The Arizona man
arrested last week for allegedly murdering a Sikh gas station operator has a
Spanish surname. He asserted to police as he was arrested, "I'm a damn American
all the way." During World War I, Poles and other Eastern Europeans were
particularly active in their repression of German-Americans. In World War II,
there were incidents of Filipinos attacking Japanese-Americans.

The most egregious example of an American minority being targeted because of its
association with the foreign enemy was the internment of 110,000
Japanese-Americans (two-thirds of whom were U.S. citizens) during World War II.

Earlier, the outbreak of World War I intensified Americans' already strong
suspicions of foreigners, which, in turn, gave rise to a campaign to rid the
country of foreign influences.

Because they shared the same ethnicity as the enemy and because many Teutonic
organizations lobbied heavily to keep America neutral in the early years of the
war, German-Americans suffered one of the most dramatic reversals of fortunes of
any group in American history. The German language, its culture, customs, and
even food came under attack. In 1918, nearly half the states had restricted or
eliminated German-language instruction; several stripped citizens of the freedom
of speaking German in public.

BUT while national solidarity during World War I was characterized by coercion,
World War II engendered what one scholar has called "patriotic assimilation."
"By the end of the war," writes Eric Foner, a historian at Columbia University,
"the new immigrant groups had been fully accepted as ethnic Americans, rather
than members of distinct and inferior races."

On the level of everyday life, the war was a great common experience,
particularly for the 12 million men and women who served in the armed forces,
but also for the much of the rest of the population, which shared the losses,
privations and ultimately, the joys of victory. Wartime "fox hole" movies didn't
seek to deny ethnic distinctions but affirmed the Americanness of the Irish,
Jewish, Polish, and Okie soldiers who were "all in it together."

African-Americans, of course, have fought in every war in American history, and
were still not recognized as full Americans when they returned. But it was at
the end of World War II that blacks first saw the beginnings of integration, a
process that accelerated in the postwar years. Still, just as the
Japanese-American units in World War II became the most decorated in American
military history, many black soldiers have sought to express and prove their
"Americanness" through valor. "It is a refusal to be left out of the definition
of whatever it is that comprises American identity," said Debra Dickerson, a
writer and 12-year Air Force veteran.

But wartime can also reinvigorate the public's appreciation for the country's
most cherished values. "It compels an articulation of American ideals, those
things that America stands for," said Professor Gerstle. Just as the need for
tightened security will at times conflict with the nation's belief in broad
civil liberties, the quest for unity is bound to clash with another American
ideal: tolerance.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ellis Island in the 1920's (Bettmann/Corbis); A naturalization
ceremony for 3,500 new citizens at the Los Angeles Convention Center, 1997.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rightist Judge Shows Strongly In Hamburg

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 23


The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, suffered a significant political defeat
today in state legislative elections in Hamburg, with a law-and-order,
anti-immigration politician known locally as "Judge Merciless" making an
unexpectedly strong showing.

The judge's party -- less than a year old -- took nearly 19 percent of the vote.
That, combined with heavy losses for the Greens, the partners of Mr. Schroder's
Social Democrats, meant that the chancellor's party could lose control of the
government of Hamburg city state for the first time in 44 years.

The judge, Ronald Schill, 42, campaigned for a crackdown on both crime and
immigration in the rich northern port, taking votes from all the established
parties.

Mr. Schill has indirectly benefited, pollsters said tonight, from the
involvement of some Hamburg-based Arabs in the terrorist attacks against
Washington and New York.

With his "Party for Law and Order Offensive" making the best electoral showing
of any new party since the now established parties emerged after World War II,
Mr. Schill could become the state's Interior Minister in a coalition with the
Christian Democratic Party and the Free Democrats, presuming that the vote total
for the latter remains above the 5 percent cutoff. The party was hovering above
that figure late tonight.

Mr. Schill mixes harsh views with a moderate demeanor. He was dubbed "Judge
Merciless" by some German media for tough sentences for petty crimes, including
long terms for a graffiti sprayer and a woman who scratched parked cars.

While Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats slightly increased their percentage of the
vote over 1997, winning some 37.5 percent, their coalition partners, the Greens,
lost badly, getting less than 9 percent of their vote, a reflection of the
battle the alternative party is having keeping its supporters now that it is in
the federal government.

As the largest party, however, the Social Democrats will attempt to woo the Free
Democrats into a coalition with them and the Greens, if only to block Mr.
Schill. But the Free Democrats said before the vote that their intention was to
form a government with the Christian Democrats and Mr. Schill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: NOTEBOOKS;
Anti-Immigration Posters

BYLINE:  By TARA BAHRAMPOUR

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 206 words


A week after the attack on the World Trade Center, 40 posters appeared on phone
kiosks around Manhattan. "Immigration will double U.S. population in our
lifetimes," read one; "U.S. population now growing at a faster rate than
China's," read another.

They are part of an ongoing campaign by a group called ProjectUSA, which calls
for changes in United States immigration policy. Advertisements it has placed on
billboards around New York in recent years have been removed by the city.

Craig Nelsen, the group's president, said the posters were commissioned before
the attack. He said he tried to delay the postings but could not. Asked about an
e-mail message sent out by the group on Thursday that called the timing of the
posters "propitious," Mr. Nelsen said they were not aimed at immigrants but were
designed to "divert attention away from immigrants themselves and look at the
larger picture."

Several pedestrians passing by one of the signs near Times Square said they took
it to be an anti-immigrant statement. Ruby Persson criticized the timing. "I
think a lot of people are going to come out of the woodwork to get their
messages out," she said. "That's what they do, hit people when they're most
vulnerable."   TARA BAHRAMPOUR

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ProjectUSA, a group that has called for more immigration
restrictions, opened a 40-poster campaign a week after the World Trade Center
attack. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

War on Terrorism Stirs Memory of Internment

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 920 words


The Bush administration's proposals for increased law enforcement powers to
fight terrorism are provoking a debate about whether American courts would
repeat the kinds of rulings that restricted the civil rights of
Japanese-Americans during World War II.

The debate, some legal experts say, may help define how far courts are willing
to go now in giving the government latitude in its treatment of Arabs in this
country. Officials have held at least 75 immigrants in the investigation of the
attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

Among the most controversial of the administration's proposals are several that
would give immigrants who are detained in the terror investigation limited
opportunities to get their cases heard in court.

The Justice Department has insisted that the proposals uphold constitutional
rights while giving law enforcement the tools it needs to conduct its
investigation. But critics say immigrants in particular face new dangers from
the proposals that they say parallel the treatment of Japanese in this country
during the 1940's.

"Under these provisions," said Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, "there is a much bigger danger than we
have ever seen in our history of innocent people being rounded up and held on
suspicion that they did something and never having their day in court."

For many years, the most expansive of the World War II rulings, a 1944 Supreme
Court decision that approved the internment of Japanese-Americans, has been
widely discredited.

But in recent days legal experts of varying political views have said that the
principles of the decision may not have been as widely repudiated as had been
previously assumed. The 1944 case involved a Japanese-American, Fred T.
Korematsu, who was convicted of disobeying an order requiring people of Japanese
ancestry to report to assembly centers. The Supreme Court approved his
conviction.

"Some people say we've learned the lesson from Korematsu and we would never do
that again," said Jerry Kang, a law professor at the University of California at
Los Angeles and an expert on the World War II rulings. "I'm much more skeptical;
I think there is a chance we would do that again."

In the 1944 case, a divided court approved the internments, saying that
"hardships are part of war." The United States government formally apologized
for the internments in 1988. But the Supreme Court has never overruled its
decision.

Though a blanket detention of Arab-Americans now appears politically
implausible, some legal experts say the reasoning of the 1944 ruling could
permit limits on the civil liberties of Arab immigrants and even some Americans
of Arab descent.

Among limits that might be approved by the courts are detentions of immigrants
who give officials cause for concern. For instance, the government might detain
individuals who had spent time in countries associated with terrorist
activities, said Douglas W. Kmiec, a constitutional law expert at the Catholic
University of America in Washington.

The heart of the 1944 decision was that the courts should give deference to
government decisions about what was required for national security. "In wartime
more latitude is given to the military's judgments," Mr. Kmiec said.

The Supreme Court has said immigrants have some constitutional rights, like the
Fifth Amendment's guarantee that "no person" will be "deprived of life, liberty
or property without due process of law." The language of the amendment, courts
have said, means that its protections extend to all people in the country, not
just citizens.

In a case decided this June, the Supreme Court held that it was a violation of
the Constitution for authorities to hold immigrants indefinitely while awaiting
permission to deport them to another country.

The decision said indefinite detention by immigration officials was not
constitutional even if there was evidence that the immigrants were dangerous.
Long-term detentions are permissible under American law generally after criminal
trials where a defendant has extensive right to contest the evidence with many
legal protections. Immigration proceedings are considered civil.

But the opinion in June, written by Justice Stephen G. Breyer, seemed to
anticipate the current questions about when added powers might be given to
immigration officials. In the case before it, Justice Breyer wrote, the court
did not have to consider broader questions that were not presented by the case.

But then he suggested that the law might be flexible in times of emergency.
"Neither do we consider terrorism or other special circumstances," he wrote,
"where special arguments might be made for forms of preventive detention and for
heightened deference to the judgments of the political branches with respect to
matters of national security."

Several legal experts said there had been many indications that the Supreme
Court justices might well consider parts of the World War II internment case as
a precedent to restrict civil rights during wartime.

But some defenders of the administration's proposals say civil libertarians'
alarm is overstated.

Jan C. Ting, a Temple University law professor who is a former assistant
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that when the
nation was in peril, people ought to assume that the authorities were acting in
good faith.

"No one is trying to squash anyone's constitutional rights," Mr. Ting said.
"They're looking to protect the American people."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Supreme Court decision upholding the imprisonment of
Japanese-Americans in World War II has been discredited, but not overruled.
Left, three citizens held at Jerome, Ark. (Japanese American National Museum)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Canada Supports U.S. Freeze on Terrorists

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 752 words


Canada said yesterday that it had frozen the assets of groups identified by the
United States as linked to terrorism. But the finance minister, Paul Martin,
speaking in Parliament two days after President Bush named 27 such groups and
individuals, did not identify any groups that might be operating in Canada.

Mr. Martin said that Canadian banks supported the step. Under a law enacted
early this year, bank officials can face a five-year prison term for violating a
freeze order. Moreover, President Bush warned that foreign banks that did not
comply with the freeze would be cut out of business with the United States.

The freezing of assets is the latest in several steps Canada has said it would
take to back American campaigns against terrorists. But officials seem baffled
by how to deal with persistent American criticism of border controls between the
two countries, and there have been no promises of joining in the creation of
what Americans are calling a "security perimeter" around North America, which
would entail changes in Canadian immigration and refugee practices.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien returned from a meeting with President Bush on
Monday saying that his country would not be bulldozed into changing policies
because of this crisis. "Canada is a nation of immigrants," Mr. Chretien said.
"We will not allow the terrorist to force us to sacrifice our values or
traditions."

United States investigators have found no evidence of direct Canadian links to
any of the hijackers on the planes that struck the World Trade Center and
Pentagon. Canadian officials, relieved that none of the terrorists traced so far
had entered the United States from Canada, now stress that the existence of such
networks pose a threat to Canada too. They have pledged to increase spending on
antiterrorism measures, including strengthened border controls. "The Canadian
government is going to do whatever is necessary to protect Canadians," Mr.
Martin said last week.

Prodded by a revived political opposition that had seemed all but dead following
a crushing election defeat last year, the Chretien government says that it will
review its antiterrorism and immigration laws "as necessary."

Immigrants will soon be issued a tamper-proof resident card, the immigration
minister, Elinor Caplan, told Parliament on Tuesday. The introduction of the
card had originally been planned for 2003. In a report earlier this year, the
Canadian Security Intelligence Service, the nation's top intelligence agency,
had warned of the pitfalls in an immigration policy that actively recruits
newcomers.

"As we face an exponential increase of immigrants and visitors," the agency
said, "the likelihood is greater that terrorists and individuals connected with
hostile intelligence agencies will attempt to capitalize on the unstable
environment abroad to gain entry into Canada."

In that report the agency had noted, presciently, that the 1993 bombing at the
World Trade Center was intended to kill up to 35,000 people. The report said
that modern travel and communications "exponentially expands terrorism's scope
of operations," and it drew particular attention to radical Sunni Muslim groups.

Justice Minister Anne McLellan told Parliament this week that she would soon
introduce legislation that would make it a crime to raise money for terrorist
groups in Canada.  Ms. McLellan also said that Canada would respond quickly to
an expected extradition request from the United States for a man taken off a
diverted plane on Sept. 11 and detained at Toronto's international airport. The
man, identified by Canadian authorities as Nageeb Abdul Jabar Mohamed al-Hadi,
was headed to the United States from Germany when all flights were grounded, and
Canadian police officers, checking passenger documents, removed him from the
plane.

Canadian officials, aware of concerns by the Bush administration about the long
open border with the United States, also say that they have already put in place
more rigorous checks. Officials were embarrassed by the ability of Nabil
al-Marabh, who was detained in the Chicago area last week in connection with the
terrorist plot, to move in and out of Canada -- though American border guards
missed him also. Mr. al-Marabh had been detained in Canada 15 months ago and
supposedly remained under suspicion even after being released.

In Montreal yesterday, the transport minister, David Collenette, said his
ministry would buy detection systems capable of finding explosives and chemicals
in airports.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Bronx: 2 Arrested In Immigrant Fraud

BYLINE:  By Richard Lezin Jones (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 107 words


Two men, one a minister, have been charged with stealing more than $260,000 from
illegal immigrants by telling the immigrants that they could get them green
cards, said Robert T. Johnson, the Bronx district attorney, left.

The men, the Rev. Errol O'Connor, 48, of the Bronx, and Emanuel Felder, 33, of
Uniondale, N.Y., were arrested on Tuesday and face grand larceny and other
charges. Prosecutors say that Mr. O'Connor, of the Pentecostal Deliverance
Ministries in the Bronx, falsely claimed in radio commercials that he could
obtain resident alien status for immigrants for a fee, which averaged about
$4,000.   Richard Lezin Jones (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: NEIGHBOR;
Support for U.S. Security Plans Is Quietly Voiced Across Canada

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: STREETSVILLE, Ontario, Sept. 29


In small towns and cities, from Atlantic Canada through the prairies to the
Pacific coast, many Canadians are saying what Washington would like to hear, if
it could hear them.

Give the Americans what they need to make North America safer, they say, even if
that means a loss of Canadian sovereignty and tougher immigration and asylum
laws. That is the message from merchants up and down Queen Street in this suburb
with a small-town feel near Canada's largest city, Toronto. It is the finding of
national opinion polls. It is the talk in homes and bars and workplaces and the
subject of letters to publications across the country.

It is not the message that Canadians -- or American officials -- have been
hearing from Prime Minister Jean Chretien, however, since the attacks in the
United States on Sept. 11. The American ambassador in Ottawa, Paul Cellucci, has
called for a "security perimeter" around the region that would mean aligning
Canada's more generous immigration, visa, asylum and antiterrorism policies with
those of the United States. Mr. Chretien has responded by saying repeatedly that
his country is not going to be a fortress against the world.

Even in Mr. Chretien's own Liberal Party, however, there are dissenting voices.
Premier Gordon Campbell of British Columbia said in a speech on Thursday that
Canada should "work arm in arm with America to create an airtight North American
border," adding, "We have no better friend in Canada than the United States of
America."

The prime minister and leaders of opposition parties, some of whom have
excoriated Mr. Chretien in Parliament for his low-key reaction to the American
crisis, went to New York this weekend to see the devastation at the World Trade
Center site for themselves.

Here in Streetsville, Todd Ladner of Ladner's Clothiers and the local Business
Improvement Association, thought this gesture was about as meager as it was
overdue. "Our government should have been there -- in person, at the site,
within a few days," he said, "and I think our security has to be reassessed and
upgraded in accordance with American wishes. They are the dominant players and
the leaders, and we have to respect that because we rely on them for so much of
our own security."

Down the street a bit, Gaylene Wakeman was tending to business at a little toy
store, Once Upon a Time. On the counter was a tiny teddy bear dressed in an
American flag outfit, sitting by a can for donations. Take a red, white and blue
ribbon, and give something for relief, customers were asked. Ms. Wakeman made
the ribbons as her own small way of "doing something."

"I sat in front of the television watching what was happening, and I made
these," she said. "I made 36 of them, because I felt like I had to do something.
I tried to donate blood, but they were so filled up that appointments were two
or three weeks down the road. So I made up my little ribbons and we've got
almost $60 in donations in the last two weeks. As soon as we get $100 we're
going to send a check off."

Across the street, at a memorial to the dead from World War I and World War II,
a wreath and several candles have been added by local people in memory of the
victims of the attacks on the United States.

John Davies, a retired dentist from Whitby, stopped by to look. He said of the
United States, "It's almost as if we're cut from the same cloth, really."

At Pita Nutsy, a Middle Eastern cafe, Feris Ahmed, an Iraqi by birth, said he
had no illusions about the Arab world. "We're all here because of the problems
over there," he said. He suggested that all North Americans should share in
meeting this new threat. "This is not a localized crisis," he said. "It is
international. It affects each and every one of us." On immigration, he said,
"They should be more careful."

Samta Patel and her husband, Sonny -- both born in Zambia -- own Treasured
Artifacts, which sells folk art from Africa and Mexico. Ms. Patel said she would
prefer to let Americans set stricter security standards. On the door of her shop
is a poster made of Canadian and American flags. She said it was there to
welcome Americans expected next week for the big annual parade of clowns.

There are also two flags, big ones, outside the house of Michael Moore, who
works for a courier service. His wife, Kimberly, is from Georgia.

"We were heartbroken," he said, "but I didn't know what help we could be. We had
the flags, so we just put them out." He said he gets "a few honks" from drivers
passing by, and no complaints.

Last week, a poll conducted by the EKOS research organization for The Toronto
Star, La Presse in Montreal and CBC News found nothing to dispute these
grass-roots reactions. Fifty-three percent of Canadians polled said they
supported the creation of a security perimeter around Canada and the United
States; 59 percent said they wouldn't mind "giving up some of our national
sovereignty if it increased overall security in North America," and 57 percent
supported Canadian military backing for the United States in a war on terrorism.

Gordon Stewart, a civil servant in Toronto, said that reports in the news media
that Canadians were "waffling" on support of the United States were wrong. "I
don't know that you need to give up sovereignty to coordinate border efforts,"
he said, adding that the only reason Canadians can live as they do is because
they are sheltered by the might of the United States. "We've been riding the
U.S. coattails for so long."

Haroon Siddiqi, a columnist and former editorial page editor of The Toronto
Star, has often been critical of American policies. But he said in an interview
that he was impressed and perhaps surprised by the sophisticated handling of the
crisis by the Bush administration.

"There is an extraordinary sympathy, empathy, and walking shoulder to shoulder
with the Americans," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Moore of Streetsville, Ontario, with his daughters,
Erin, 8, and Kiersten, 10. "We were heartbroken," he said of the attacks on
Sept. 11. (John Hryniuk for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing The Americas: Mexico: Fox To Visit Bush And Giuliani

BYLINE:  By Ginger Thompson (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 82 words


President Vicente Fox visits President Bush today to discuss border security
issues and to promote broad immigration reforms. Mr.

Fox's hastily arranged visit to the United States is also a response to
criticism that the Mexican government has not forcefully expressed its support
for the United States during the terrorism crisis. Later today Mr. Fox is
scheduled to travel to New York to tour the wreckage of the World Trade Center
with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.   Ginger Thompson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democratic Gains Falter With Tighter Security in Central Europe

BYLINE:  By PETER S. GREEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Oct. 3


Since the terror attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, several governments
in Central Europe have called for tighter security precautions, possibly
reversing the direction of democratic gains the nations have made since the fall
of Communism.

One critic of the trend is Amnesty International. In a report being put out on
Thursday in London, the rights group warns that "In the name of fighting
'international terrorism,' " governments have rushed to introduce new measures
that threaten the human rights of their own citizens, immigrants and refugees."

It cited a wave of attacks on Muslims and other foreigners in the United States,
Europe and Australia and efforts by governments from Hungary to China to
increase the powers of the police and security officials.

The situation is delicate in Central Europe, where some leaders now in office
spent time in jail in the Communist era for their protests on behalf of human
rights. The Czech president, Vaclav Havel, who spent five years in prison, has
said that some rights may have to be restricted after the attacks in order to
protect larger freedoms. But he criticized a growing climate of intolerance for
dissenting political opinions in the country.

"Expressing critical thought is considered to be favoring the terrorists," Mr.
Havel told a newspaper. "That is what I consider extremely dangerous."

In the Czech Republic, the lower house of Parliament rushed to approve a bill
easing the access of the police and intelligence services to private records,
including telephone records, without judicial oversight. Another proposal would
limit certain rights of asylum seekers. The proposal has critics in the upper
house, which has yet to act on the bill.

Shortly after the attacks, the police arrested the leader of an extremist group
who had praised the attacks at a public rally.

In Hungary, authorities confined in a single camp at least 812 Afghans still in
refugee camps, an action that rights groups say is a direct violation of
international conventions.

In Russia, the Justice Ministry has proposed toughening laws to let the police
detain those suspected of links to terrorism for up to 30 days.

"A lot of institutions characteristic of the police state and Communism have
returned," said Ferenc Koszeg, president of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. He
said that some of the country's hard-won freedoms began to erode five years ago
when a wave of organized crime swept the country.

"Generally speaking," he said, "there is an atmosphere of more severe control of
asylum seekers and other foreigners."

The extremist arrested in the Czech Republic -- Jan Kopal, the chairman of the
fringe National Social Bloc -- was charged with approving a criminal act. He had
applauded the attacks, saying the United States "deserves no less than such an
attack" for "murdering citizens of Yugoslavia." If convicted, he could face a
year in prison.

"It is his own opinion, to which he has a right, no matter how stupid it is,"
said Zdenek Zboril, a professor at Charles University in Prague and an expert on
extremism. "We are seeing politics interfering in police work and that's
dangerous."

In its report, Amnesty also warned that overzealous antiterrorism measures could
limit free speech.

"Some of the definitions of terrorism under discussion are so broad that they
could be used to criminalize anyone out of favor with those in power," the
report said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 7, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 482 words


INTERNATIONAL   A3-32

Sharon Expresses Regret Over Warning To U.S.
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel apologized for what he called a
misunderstanding caused by his warning that the United States risked appeasing
Arab nations the way Europe appeased Adolf Hitler before World War II. The
comment, made last week, caused three days of extremely turbulent diplomacy
between the two allies.   A3

Russia Shifts Stance on Plane
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia was said to have challenged Ukraine's
insistence that it had not accidentally shot down a Siberian Airlines jet on
Thursday, calling its version of events "incomplete." Another Russian said that
many "foreign" objects had been found in the wreckage.   A15


Mystery of France Explosion
Investigators working to figure out what caused the explosion at a petrochemical
plant in Toulouse last month that killed 29 people have not yet been able to
answer the basic question, whether it was an industrial accident or a deliberate
act.   A13

Carribean Economy Shaken
Economies throughout the Carribean, facing drastic reductions in American
tourists and their dollars, have also been shaken by the Sept. 11 attacks on
America.   A6

NATIONAL   A33-38

Hopes for Legal Residency Are Fading for Millions
The White House and Congress have been moving rapidly toward making immigration
laws even tighter out of fear of terrorist attacks. This policy reversal has
sent a chill through legal and illegal Hispanic immigrants.   A33

Finding Lost Children
About 20,000 stores nationwide have instituted procedures for quickly finding
lost children. The programs are named "Code Adam" for a boy abducted from a
mall.   A33

The New Jobless
The number of workers filing for first-time state unemployment benefits has
soared to a nine-year high since the terror attacks. The newly jobless have been
finding ways to cope: taking odd jobs, selling some belongings, cutting back.
A36

Worker Was Nazi Guard
A retired Ohio factory worker has been stripped of his United States citizenship
for working as a guard at a Nazi labor camp in Poland during World War II. The
man, Wasyl Krysa, 76, of Brooklyn, Ohio, has said he served the Nazis against
his will. A United States district judge wrote in Friday's ruling that just by
serving as an armed guard, Mr. Krysa ensured that prisoners could not escape
persecution "because of their race, religion or national origin."   (AP)

NEW YORK/REGION   A39-42

Democratic Candidates Differ On Dealing With Attack
The attack on the World Trade Center has created sharp differences between the
two Democratic candidates for mayor. Mark Green has made the attack the central
focus of his campaign, while Fernando Ferrer is arguing that it should not
overshadow other problems confronting the city.   A1

OBITUARIES   A44

John C. Lilly
A neuroscientist and writer who explored human consciousness, he was 86.   A44

Chess   A46
Weather   A47

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: NATIONAL MEASURES;
Entire Nation On High Alert As Security Is Stepped Up

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR with JUDITH MILLER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7


Federal, state and local law enforcement officials, fearing reprisals for the
air strikes in Afghanistan, immediately tightened security and increased patrols
today at airports, train stations, sports stadiums and public buildings across
the country.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation told all law enforcement agencies that they
should be at their highest state of alert -- "the highest level of vigilance,"
ready to respond to any act of terrorism or violence.

Officials said that there was no specific intelligence information about whether
or when Osama bin Laden's network, Al Qaeda, might strike but that the actions
were prudent.

As American warplanes began bombing Taliban strongholds in Afghanistan,
immigration officials intensified their scrutiny of foreigners entering the
United States. The Energy Department stepped up security at the nation's nuclear
plants. Passengers at Pennsylvania Station in New York and Union Station in
Washington were advised that they could no longer buy tickets on board trains in
the Northeast corridor, and that they would have to show photo identification
before buying tickets.

The Coast Guard said it was conducting the largest port defense operation since
World War II, establishing special security zones in ports, on waterways and
along the nation's coastline. Cruise ships were barred from New York Harbor.
Ships that usually call there were sent to Hampton Roads, Va., or to Boston.

Near Detroit, a spokeswoman for Metro Airport said the Federal Aviation
Administration notified officials at 2 p.m. that they should put additional
security in place.

Soon after the first air strikes on Afghanistan, Americans began to see evidence
of the additional precautions. Officials said other steps were taken behind the
scenes.

In New York, motorists entering tunnels into Manhattan were asked to open their
car trunks for searches. Police officials said they were enhancing patrols at
bridges and tunnels, courthouses, police stations and other government buildings
around the city.

Airport officials tightened security in Chicago, in Kansas City, Mo., and in
Florida.

At the F. E. Warren Air Force Base outside Cheyenne, Wyo., where 200 nuclear
missiles in Nebraska, Wyoming and Colorado are controlled, Col. Tom Shearer, the
base commander, ordered an increase in security to Force Protection Charlie,
which means intelligence indicates a terrorist action is imminent.

The emergency measures and precautions put in place today grew out of three
weeks of planning, begun soon after the attacks on the World Trade Center and
the Pentagon on Sept. 11.

The staff of the National Security Council, anticipating military operations in
Afghanistan, has coordinated a largely secret effort to increase protections at
the nation's transportation hubs, nuclear power plants, drinking water supplies
and other potentially vulnerable sites. Administration officials told Congress
last week that some kind of terrorist retaliation against the United States was
likely to follow any allied military action against the Taliban.

The effort to protect installations in this country was supervised by two
working groups. One, dealing with law enforcement preparations, is led by Larry
D. Thompson, the deputy attorney general. The other, responsible for dealing
with the consequences of any reprisals, is headed by Michael Brown, the general
counsel of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Federal officials said Mr. Thompson, Mr. Brown and members of their working
groups had spent the last three weeks telephoning governors, mayors and other
state and local officials. Bush administration officials also met secretly with
managers of the nation's water systems, nuclear power plants, truck companies,
railroads and other critical installations. They discussed ways to tighten
security and what to do if deterrence failed.

The Environmental Protection Agency took steps to safeguard the nation's
drinking water supplies. The agency is working with 168,000 public water systems
nationwide, providing advice on how to improve security and monitor the water to
ensure that it has not been contaminated.

Cmdr. James B. McPherson, a spokesman for the Coast Guard, said, "we're at a
heightened state of alert at every one of our major ports, over 300 ports," and
along 88,000 miles of coastline.

"We have 24-hour armed surveillance at major ports," he said. "It may be
cutters, it may be small boats, it may be a truck on the pier with armed
guards."

The Coast Guard has established 72 security zones, including one around the
United Nations, one around the Statue of Liberty and some around nuclear power
plants.

At the Energy Department, Jeanne Lopatto, a spokeswoman, said, "We have gone to
a heightened level of security at all sites." The department is the custodian of
tons of radioactive waste left over from bomb making and substantial amounts of
material useful for building nuclear bombs.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, the Energy Department suspended all shipments of
nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, but the shipments resumed a few days ago.
Ms. Lopatto said she did not know if they would be suspended again.

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said the United States was attacking
suspected terrorist strongholds because it could never increase security enough
to prevent every act of terrorism in this country.

"You cannot defend at every place, at every time, against every conceivable,
imaginable -- even unimaginable -- terrorist attack," Mr. Rumsfeld said.

Officials at the Department of Health and Human Services said they had taken
steps to protect public health resources like stockpiles of drugs and vaccines.
One official said the agency had placed additional security at the Boston
offices of Acambis, the designated producer of smallpox vaccine for civilians,
and at the Pennsylvania storage facility for stockpiles of smallpox vaccine.

Michigan officials have asked the National Guard to help protect BioPort, the
plant in Lansing that is attempting to make anthrax vaccine for the nation's
more than 2.2 million men and women in uniform.

In addition, officials said, extra guards have been assigned to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, the national repository of the
smallpox virus, and at the eight pharmaceutical stockpiles scattered throughout
the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pfc. Allan Timmons of the Florida National Guard on patrol
yesterday at Miami International Airport, where security has been tightened.
(Alex Quesada/Matrix, for The New York Times)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Young Israelis, Caught in Net of Suspicion

BYLINE:  By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 945 words


As their lawyer tells it, when the five young men were picked up by F.B.I.
agents in midday on Sept. 11, they had a box cutter with them. One man carried
$4,000 in cash, another had two passports.

In short, there probably were good reasons to be suspicious of the men who
became the subjects of widespread news coverage.

What those early news accounts missed, however, was that all five of the men
were Israeli Jews, and that if they had box cutters, it was because at least
four of them and possibly all five worked for Urban Moving Systems, a household
moving company in New York and New Jersey.

They are now facing deportation for overstaying their visas and other
immigration offenses, but their lawyer says their case is a reminder that though
roughly 500 people have now been detained as part of the crackdown on possible
terrorists, that does not mean all of them are part of any terror network.

Driving a large van across the George Washington Bridge toward Manhattan hours
after the deadly attack on American landmarks, the five men, well built and in
their 20's, were speaking in a foreign language. They appeared to be from the
Middle East. By some accounts, they seemed to be making light of the tragic
situation.

Besides the cash and the passports, one man had fresh pictures of the smoldering
wreckage of the trade center in his camera, images he had captured by standing
rather conspicuously on the roof of the van.

The men were taken into custody, with news reports leaving the wide impression
that the authorities had detained a group of suspicious men taking pictures or
rooting for the terrorists from the New Jersey side of the bridge.

They have spent much of the last 27 days inside the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn, getting a firsthand glimpse of a side of New York they never
dreamed of seeing when they came to the United States as tourists. As much as
anything, friends and families say, they came seeking a respite from life in a
war zone.

These days, they would be thrilled to return. Shortly after the five Israelis
arrived at the detention center, a group of Pakistani Muslims pressured them to
join in a hunger strike, according to the Israelis' lawyer, Steven Noah Gordon.
That only fortified the impression inside the prison that somehow "they were all
together," and invited threats from non-Muslims, he said. For their own safety,
he said, they now each have separate cells.

According to Mr. Gordon, his clients were also blindfolded during
interrogations, handcuffed in confinement, and forced to take polygraph tests.
Though they were technically being held by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, Mr. Gordon said, they were told ominously that if they failed to
cooperate, they could be charged with violations of obscure "black-humor
statutes" which, in limited circumstances, allow people to be prosecuted for
cracking jokes about security matters like airplane hijackings.

Government officials are refusing to disclose much about the identities or
whereabouts of the people who have been detained as part of the manhunt for the
suicide hijackers' accomplices. They are divulging even less about the 150 or so
who are being held on immigration charges. Some detainees no doubt have useful
information about the terrorists' plot. Others seem to have done nothing more
than tip off the authorities during questioning that they were living or working
here illegally.

"The F.B.I. is vacuuming up everything, good, bad and indifferent," said James
Oslow, an immigration lawyer in Philadelphia representing two Turkish detainees,
whose truck broke down near a military base.

Washington, he said, would "rather lock everybody up as a means to convince the
public they're doing everything appropriate."

A spokesman for the Justice Department in Washington, Dan Nelson, refused to
discuss particulars of the Israelis' case or to confirm that that they were in
custody. This reporter, who approached the Metropolitan Detention Center on
Friday, was turned away.

Mr. Gordon, who was initially hired by the family of one of the detainees, Oded
Ellner, on Sept. 17, agreed to represent the other four pro bono as a favor to
the Israeli consulate in New York. "This is a huge misunderstanding," said Yigal
Tzarfati, an official with the consulate. The five men in detention, he said,
"have nothing to do with the bombings."

Mr. Gordon said he did not believe his clients were advised of their rights
until he was allowed to visit them on Sept. 25. "They were beside themselves,"
he said.

Even then, he said, six to eight guards sat in on their meetings and forbade
them from speaking any language but English. "It's the strangest case I've ever
seen," said Mr. Gordon, who said his clients had "absolutely nothing" to do with
terrorists.

Inside the prison, mistrust has been running so deep that a visiting rabbi
appeared indifferent when asked to help the Israelis get prayer books for the
Jewish High Holy Days last month, according to Mr. Gordon.

On Sept. 25, all five signed papers acknowledging violations of United States
immigration law. One, Sivan Kurzberg, admitted working illegally on a tourist
visa. His brother, Paul Kurzberg, along with Yaron Shmuel and Mr. Ellner,
conceded they had overstayed their visas.

The fifth man, Omer Gavriel Marmari, was initially also charged with having
overstayed his visa, because he had not left the country by Sept. 19. Since he
was in custody when that deadline came, Mr. Gordon said, that charge was
dropped, and Mr. Marmari conceded instead that he had failed to notify the
government of a change in status.

The five are awaiting deportation back to Israel. Eagerly, friends say.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION;
PREVENTIVE STEPS

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON and DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 967 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8


The Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have ordered
agents across the country to curtail their investigation of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks so they can pursue leads that might prevent a second, possibly
imminent, round of attacks, senior law enforcement officials said.

Since Sept. 11, Attorney General John Ashcroft has become increasingly involved
in the details of the F.B.I.'s counterterrorism operation. He often spends hours
each day with Director Robert S. Mueller III of the F.B.I. at the bureau's
high-tech operations center, demonstrating the importance the Bush
administration places on the effort to thwart future attacks.

The officials said the attorney general and the F.B.I. director had also ordered
agents to end their investigative surveillance of some terrorism suspects and
immediately take them into custody.

The order has resulted in the arrest of many immigrants suspected of involvement
with groups linked to Osama bin Laden. But it has also met with resistance from
F.B.I. agents who believed that surveillance -- if continued for days or weeks
-- might turn up critical evidence to prove who orchestrated the attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"The investigative staff has to be made to understand that we're not trying to
solve a crime now," said a law enforcement official, speaking on condition of
anonymity. "Our No. 1 goal is prevention."

Another official said Mr. Ashcroft and Mr. Mueller had struggled to overcome a
culture within the F.B.I. in which agents detain terrorist suspects only after
collecting detailed evidence, often based on wiretapping and other electric
surveillance. The problem is "a culture, a mindset," the official said.

An F.B.I. spokesman, John Collingwood, disputed the suggestion that agents were
reluctant to make arrests.

"We all agree that this is the proper course to follow," Mr. Collingwood said.
"The F.B.I. must continue investing towards maximum prevention capacity on every
front"

Law enforcement officials said the investigation of the Sept. 11 attacks was
continuing aggressively. At the same time, they added, efforts to thwart attacks
have been given a much higher priority. Mr. Ashcroft and Mr. Mueller have
ordered agents to drop their investigation of the attacks or any other
assignment any time they learn of a threat or lead that might suggest a future
attack.

Officials said Mr. Mueller, who was sworn in last month, believed that his
agents had a broad understanding of the events of Sept. 11 and now needed to
concentrate on intelligence suggesting that other terrorist attacks were likely.
He said at a news conference last week that the bureau was trying to follow up
on 260,000 tips, about half of them received on a special hot line and Internet
site.

The F.B.I. has described the investigation of the terrorist hijackings as the
most exhaustive in its history. Even minor witnesses say they have been
interviewed repeatedly, which appears to have alarmed some officials who believe
that agents should instead be chasing tips suggesting new terrorist attacks. A
woman in Florida who was a neighbor to two of the hijackers said last week that
she had been interviewed 18 times by the F.B.I.

At a news conference today, Mr. Ashcroft said federal, state and local law
enforcement agencies were placed "on the highest level of alert" after the
United States began a military strike on Afghanistan on Sunday.

"We are taking strong precautions and other appropriate steps to protect the
American people while we win this war," he said, announcing that 614 people had
been arrested or detained during the investigation, up from about 500 early last
week.

Some officials suggest that Mr. Ashcroft has in effect taken command of F.B.I.
operations along with Mr. Mueller, often spending hours a day in the
40,000-square-foot Strategic Information and Operations Center at F.B.I.
headquarters on Pennsylvania Avenue, across the street from the Justice
Department.

That has rankled some veteran rank-and-file agents, who regard his assertiveness
as an intrusion that threatens the traditional independence of the F.B.I. within
the Justice Department, its parent agency. Others at the Justice Department say
they welcome the close cooperation between the department and the F.B.I. after
years of discord.

"This is important progress," a senior official said.

Mr. Ashcroft's relationship with Mr. Mueller contrasts sharply to that of Janet
Reno, the former attorney general, and Louis J. Freeh, who preceded Mr. Mueller.
Mr. Freeh was assertively independent, and at times he acted in direct
opposition to the wishes of Ms. Reno.

Mr. Mueller appears to be far more willing to coordinate his decision-making
with Mr. Ashcroft, a role that Mr. Mueller played earlier this year when he
temporarily took the job as deputy attorney general. In part, Mr. Mueller owes
his appointment to Mr. Ashcroft. It was Mr. Ashcroft who urged President Bush to
select Mr. Mueller and lobbied for him even when Bush aides appeared to want to
look elsewhere.

At his news conference today, Mr. Ashcroft declined to say if the government
knew of new, credible threats of terrorism. "I am not prepared to, nor will we,
get into a situation where we try to outline all the threats that may or may not
come to the United States on a regular basis."

He said the F.B.I. had contacted 18,000 law enforcement organizations nationwide
and 27,000 corporate security managers advising them of the need for the
"highest state of alert."

While urging vigilance, he also said Americans should not succumb to fear and
should continue to try to lead normal lives.

"I do not think that Americans should avoid sporting events or should avoid
undertaking their lives in a way which is appropriate to American freedom," Mr.
Ashcroft said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
Even in Crisis, Finding Room For Outsiders

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINERIP

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: DOVER, N.J.


HIS name is Jimmy, he said in Spanish, 24 years old and two months in America
from Costa Rica. He stood in the doorway of the Dunkin' Donuts here at 5:30
Monday morning, huddled against the cold, waiting for a boss who spoke no
Spanish, whose name he did not know, a big gringo with blond hair in a Chevy
Suburban, coming to pick him up for a day's work at a construction site. At
first, the young man said he was in America legally, then he said he could not
give his whole name because he feared deportation. His dream? Marry an American
girl and get legal fast. "Of course I feel like an outsider," he said, standing
on the quiet suburban street. "Me siento solo" (I feel alone).

For years, up to 50 Hispanic men a day have appeared in front of Dunkin' Donuts
hoping to be chosen for off-the-books day labor jobs in landscaping, demolition,
construction. But on Monday morning, for the first time, these men were invited
inside by Dover officials to a new day laborers' center, where they could stay
warm, get free coffee, wait for the bosses and learn about health and housing
benefits they can qualify for. Americans have always been at war with themselves
over immigration; Dover is a reminder that even in a national crisis as we work
to seal the borders, there are people quietly making room for the latest illegal
immigrants.

In July, the police in this suburb of 19,000 got a call from a woman complaining
that so many men were standing outside the Dunkin' Donuts that they were
blocking the entrance. When a patrol car arrived, one laborer started shouting
at the police and was arrested for disorderly conduct.

The building's owner, William Klein, happened to be walking by and was upset --
with the police. "These are hard-working men who don't want to be on welfare;
the police shouldn't be hassling them," said Mr. Klein, describing himself as a
conservative Republican and a grandson of Jewish immigrants "who came through
Ellis Island, the whole bit."

Mr. Klein said he had never had a complaint about the men from his tenants.
"The travel agency -- they're Hispanic, they don't complain," he said. "And
Dunkin' Donuts, Mr. Patel's an immigrant."

Indeed, Anil Patel, who came from India in 1989 and now owns three Dunkin'
Donuts, said that while he had gripes ("they drop their cigarette butts out
front and make a big line to the toilet"), he never complained. "It's not my
nature to complain about small matters," he said. "I have human feelings for
these people. They are looking for work."

THAT July morning, the arrested laborer was driven the block to the police
station, booked and released. He then made a beeline to Barry's luncheonette,
owned by Sergio Ferrari, a well-known community leader. Mr. Ferrari, who came
from Uruguay in 1974 ("my wife's American, so I was always legal"), is a Dover
school board member and arranged a meeting with the police and mayor.

Capt. Peter Ugalde of the Dover police defended his officer but sympathized with
the workers. "They're just trying to make it," he says. "My father came here
illegally from Spain, was deported in the early 1960's, married my mother -- an
American -- and came back."

Mayor Richard Newman was sympathetic, too. "My grandparents came from Ireland
and Italy; I'm an F.D.R. Democrat," he said.

At the July meeting, they discussed a center for day laborers. As to whether the
men were legal, the mayor says: "We don't ask; our Police Department has let it
be known we are not Immigration and we're not the I.R.S. We're here for these
men."

They enlisted Dimaris Fuentes. Ms. Fuentes, who came from Puerto Rico in 1991,
was a rising star in Morris County government, supervising 50 caseworkers until
she left last spring to run a nonprofit Hispanic affairs agency. The new job
pays less, she says, but she took it because "this is a chance to help my
people." Ms. Fuentes was angered by reports earlier this year of beatings and
harassment of Long Island day laborers. She persuaded her agency to set aside a
room for Dover's.

On Monday, a majority of the workers remained at the Dunkin' Donuts. Jesus, a
Peruvian here illegally on a tourist visa, was afraid that the bosses wouldn't
know about the new location. Still, a dozen walked the three blocks and were
warmly welcomed. On the way over, five got lost, but Mr. Ferrari, the
luncheonette owner, who came from Uruguay in 1974, spotted them on Towpath
Street and drove them to the center in his new red Lincoln Continental.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: CHARITY;
Second Loss Compounds Widow's Grief

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 765 words


Jorge Morron was supposed to become a United States citizen on Sept. 17. To
record the event, he wanted his pregnant wife, Sonia, to bring a video camera to
the swearing-in ceremony, at the Immigration and Naturalization Service bureau
in Garden City, N.Y.

The two were going to celebrate that evening with dinner at a restaurant. He
asked Mrs. Morron to wear her most beautiful clothing. "The ceremony will be in
your honor and our baby's honor," she recalled his saying.

But on the morning of Sept. 17, the cushioned metal chair that Mr. Morron, 38,
would have sat in during the ceremony remained empty. Mr. Morron, a security
guard at the World Trade Center, has been missing since Sept. 11, and is
presumed dead.

After her husband disappeared, Mrs. Morron began to have panic attacks.

Mrs. Morron has four brothers and four sisters in Bogota, Colombia, where she
was born, but her husband was the only relative she had in the United States, to
which she immigrated in 1995.

Mrs. Morron has not worked since February, after a 91-year-old woman she had
cared for as a live-in health attendant died. The couple were married in April
and lived in a two-bedroom apartment in Jackson Heights, Queens, with Mr.
Morron's brother, Carlos, who built a wall off the living room to partition the
apartment. The other bedroom was rented out to bring in an extra few hundred
dollars a month.

It was a crowded existence, but for Mrs. Morron, 41, it was the happiest time in
years, because she was in love.

This summer, Mrs. Morron (pronounced mor-OWN) was delighted to find out she was
pregnant.

Early on the morning of Sept. 11, Mr. Morron took his wife to Elmhurst Hospital
Center, where she was receiving prenatal care in the third month of a pregnancy
that was considered high risk because of her age.

He was always anxious when she was in the hospital and he considered staying
there and waiting for her to finish the day's tests. But he decided he had to go
to work. "He doesn't like to leave me alone," Mrs. Morron said, "but he was
always very responsible to his job."

She was in the hospital's waiting room when the television showed pictures of
the planes hitting the twin towers. When the south tower collapsed, she said,
she felt a chill come over her body.

Mr. Morron never returned, and she began to feel uncomfortable living in the
apartment without her husband. The Children's Aid Society, one of the 10 local
charities supported by The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund, gave her a
one-bedroom apartment in a shelter it runs, where she is cared for 24 hours a
day by a health aide and can receive medical attention quickly.

When her husband failed to return home in the days after the attack, Mrs. Morron
increasingly worried about the well-being of her baby. "In this baby," she said,
"there is a part of my husband."

Then last Thursday, she began feeling cramps in her abdomen, and Judy Quinones,
a social worker at the Children's Aid Society who was working with her, called
an ambulance, which took her to Mount Sinai Hospital. There, she found out that
she had suffered a miscarriage. "In my feelings, I am hopeless," she said,
crying. "I feel like dying also."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund should be sent to P.O.
Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE FOUNDATION
899 10th Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY FIRE SAFETY FOUNDATION
555 West 57th Street
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY POLICE FOUNDATION
345 Park Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10154

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK*
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an
internet donations service.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times 9/11 Neediest Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the
charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes
to the extent permitted by law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tightening of Border Pinches Local Economy

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., Oct. 15


Tight new security restrictions at crossings with Mexico are choking the
economic life out of border towns in California and the Southwest, congressmen
from the region say.

Some lawmakers have begun pleading with the Bush administration for low-interest
loans or grants until the crisis subsides, calling the situation a "state of
emergency" comparable to that posed by a hurricane or an earthquake.

Since the Immigration and Naturalization Service bolstered its presence on the
border after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the crowds managing to cross, in
the face of long waits, have thinned so much that business in some California
border towns has fallen by 60 percent, local officials say.

That has been devastating to small-business owners in places like San Ysidro,
home of the busiest border crossing in the world. Many stores here previously
earned 90 percent of their income from the tens of thousands of Tijuana
residents who once visited every day, searching for the sneakers, suits and blue
jeans that are often harder to find at home.

"Sure, let's be careful at the border, but let's not kill off the border
economy," said United States Representative Bob Filner, a San Diego Democrat.
"Nobody thought through the implications of all this security, but there are
incredible ripple effects."

In a letter to President Bush late last week, members of Congress from
California, Texas and Arizona said they recognized a need for strict scrutiny at
the border, but challenged the wisdom of imposing it without enough inspectors
to keep traffic flowing.

"Those who live and work along our international borders are feeling the change
in our way of life like no other Americans," the letter said. "Our border
communities are suffering and need help now."

Just a few months ago, towns dotting California's border cheered the tighter
enforcement that accompanied an I.N.S. crackdown on illegal immigration, happy
for the peace and calm it brought to an area long frustrated with throngs of
migrant workers.

Now many businesses have the opposite complaint, and grumble that the border has
been battened down so tightly that legal immigrants are being turned away in
large numbers or simply never try to venture across.

Before Sept. 11, border officials had whittled the wait to enter the United
States to 20 minutes or so, less time than it often takes to catch a bus in San
Diego or Los Angeles. Little more than a month later, the wait has grown to
three hours or more, and looks likely to remain that way now that the
immigration service has begun running background checks on all pedestrians.
Hoping to speed things up, the I.N.S. has reassigned officers who usually
investigate expired visas or hunt down criminals to stand in traffic, peering
into cars that slowly creep up to customs checkpoints.

I.N.S. officials privately worry that shifting these investigators, already in
short supply, could impede the agency's ability to track down immigrants who,
much as some of the suspected Sept. 11 hijackers did, violate the terms of their
visas.

The reassignment is temporary, the I.N.S. says, lasting only until the agency
can obtain more money from Congress to triple the number of border inspectors.
Congressmen from California to Texas support that financing request as a way of
expediting crossings. But should it fail, immigration officials say, they have
no intention of softening security for the sake of easing traffic.

"We will continue to keep the border as our focus," said Kimberly Weissman, an
I.N.S. spokeswoman.

Hours before dawn, as car fumes mix with the morning mist, the lines already
stretch back more than a mile here in San Ysidro.  Where once there were hardly
ever any bicycles, now there are more than 1,000 a day, cutting through the
congestion in a morning ritual that immigration officials have dubbed the "Tour
de France."

Those who brave the waits, I.N.S. officials say, do so because they have to:
they are parents shuttling their children to and from school, for example, or
workers with a clock to punch.

Even illegal immigrants have virtually stopped trying to get across, hidden in
car trunks. At the start of September, the I.N.S. caught dozens each day here.
Now that word of the thorough inspections has spread, no more than a few each
week are found.

The difficult border crossings have made for an economic experience unlike that
elsewhere in the nation. Although retailers everywhere worried that consumers,
fearful of venturing outside and lacking confidence in the economy, would rein
in their shopping habits after Sept. 11, that has largely not been the case.

On average, chain stores have seen their business drop by less than 1 percent,
analysts say, and traffic in the nation's malls has fallen about 5 percent -- a
worry for stock watchers but wishful thinking for many businesses in California
border towns.

In the 39 years since it opened, Raya's Clothing store, only a few miles from
Mexico in Chula Vista, has been used to having dozens of customers a day. Today
it had only one. "Thank God he bought something," said Rosemary Raya, the
owner's sister. "Everybody's hurting."

Tony McCune, who sells, fixes and stocks parts for cars in National City, a
10-minute drive from the border, considers himself lucky because his business
has dropped only 30 percent in the last month. Still, about a quarter of his
employees live in Mexico and set out to cross the border every day, hoping to
make it into work before their shifts end, much less before they begin.

"It's just ridiculous," Mr. McCune said. "They want to come, they're used to
coming, and we depend on them. And now they're having a huge amount of trouble."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the port of entry in San Ysidro, Calif., new security
restrictions have made the lines of pedestrians and vehicles crossing from
Mexico longer than ever. One result has been a big loss of business along the
border. (Photographs by Dave Gatley for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Adds Security for Bush Trip Saturday

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 15


A bell jar of security has descended over this city and, in some ways, over all
of China, as Shanghai nervously prepares to welcome President Bush and other
Asian and Pacific Rim leaders at a regional summit meeting this week.

The dramatic precautions, which have prevented many people from the Middle East
and Central Asia from entering or staying in the country, are a remarkable
measure of how far a government can go in warding off a terrorist threat if that
government is unconcerned about offending its neighbors or protecting civil
liberties.

"Shanghai has always been a very safe place, and we don't want to see any
terrorists in here," said Yang Guoqiang, head of the city's office to prepare
for the conference. "Terrorists will find this the hardest place to succeed."

Chinese airlines have stopped issuing tickets to most people from 19 countries,
including Afghanistan, Egypt, Israel, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and other Middle
Eastern states. Chinese embassies and consulates have stopped issuing visas to
many people from those countries. Immigration offices in China have stopped
extending the visas of many people from those countries, forcing them to leave.

No agency will say whether the actions are responding to a specific threat or
simply stem from concern that a terrorist bead may be drawing on Shanghai as Mr.
Bush heads here.

But a directive issued last week by Air China, the country's national carrier,
cited an incident on Sept. 17 in which the crew of a China Southern Airlines
flight from Guangzhou to Los Angeles was "held in custody by U.S. police for
several hours because one passenger from the Middle East failed to show proper
identification" on landing.

The directive advised the ticket agents not to sell tickets "for the time being
to travelers holding passports of Middle East and Central Asian countries" and
told the agents to say flights are full to "graciously reject travelers."

The Foreign Ministry said on Sunday that airlines had misunderstood its
instructions and that anyone with a valid visa obtained through normal channels
could enter China. But several ticket agents contacted today said the policy
remained in effect.

After Sept. 11, Mr. Bush canceled a trip to Beijing, Seoul and Tokyo, but has
promised to show up for the meeting of Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum
leaders on Saturday and Sunday. It will be his first foreign trip since a summit
meeting of leading industrialized nations in July in Genoa, Italy. It will also
be the scene of Mr. Bush's first meeting the leaders of China and Russia since
the attacks on Sept. 11.

The obvious concern remains that terrorists could slip across the long
mountainous western frontier with Afghanistan and Pakistan and blend in with
China's ethnically diverse Muslim population before making their way to
Shanghai, a few days away by train.

To ensure that there is no incident, eight SU-27 fighter jets will patrol the
skies over Shanghai, according to state media reports, and Navy gunboats will
patrol the muddy Huangpu River that snakes through the city. Fighter jets will
escort aircraft that carry visiting leaders after they enter Chinese airspace,
and a 100,000-member security force is being deployed to protect the dignitaries
on the ground.

Trucks will be banned from much of the city this week. For more than two weeks,
rows of police officers have been posted at checkpoints on major approach roads
to stop and inspect all passenger and cargo vehicles that are heading into the
city. People arriving by train are also being scrutinized.

Residents will be given a holiday from Wednesday to Sunday, when large swaths of
the city will be cordoned off and emptied except for people with special passes.

Roads around the conference site will be closed to traffic, and the fortresslike
compound that surrounds the Ritz-Carlton Hotel, where Mr. Bush and his entourage
are expected to stay, will be closed much of the time to everyone not associated
with the visit except for the compound's residents and office workers. The hotel
has spent $200,000 on additional surveillance and security equipment.

"There was always a heightened awareness of security concerns in preparation for
the visit," said the general manager, Mark DeCocinis. "The terrorist attacks
made it escalate even more."

That is not enough to satisfy some people, though. Rupert Murdoch, head of the
News Corporation, announced last month that he was canceling a media conference
in Shanghai that had been meant to coincide with the conference, known as the
APEC summit meeting, and had been expected to draw many top media executives.
Mr. Murdoch wrote in an e-mail to would-be participants that many executives had
called to express "reluctance to travel during such an uncertain time."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officers blocking entrances to the Shanghai Convention Center.
Residents are being given a holiday from tomorrow through Sunday. (Agence
France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

La Courneuve Journal;
In Suburban Squalor Near Paris, Echoes of Jihad

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: LA COURNEUVE, France


La Cite des 4,000 is a slate-gray housing project where many Muslim immigrants
live in apartments with windows closed off by cement blocks, trash spills down
stairwells, gangs openly deal cocaine and hashish, and the burned-out hulks of
cars lie in parking lots.

Like many pockets of poor Muslim immigrants, La Cite is a world unto itself,
where young men are caught in a profound and disturbing identity crisis, suffer
the sting of racism and the plague of unemployment. Some have come to see in
Osama bin Laden, the man America is trying to bomb into submission, as a savior.

It does not take long in La Cite des 4,000, nicknamed the Bronx because of the
high crime rate, to understand why France's four million Muslims constitute a
social and political powder keg. France has expressed strong support for
America's war on terrorism, but the government is clearly concerned about
containing Muslim anger at home.

That anger was evident on Oct. 6 when, for the first time since Algeria's bitter
war for independence from France, the two countries played a soccer match.
French-born Muslims hooted and whistled during the French national anthem. The
crowd chanted "Bin Laden! Bin Laden! Bin Laden!" and pelted two French
ministers, both women, with bottles.

When it was clear that the Algerian team would lose, the Algerian fans stormed
the field waving Algerian flags and stopped the match.

The turmoil was striking not least because France's relationship with its large
Muslim population appeared to have improved after France won the World Cup
soccer tournament in 1998 with a team that included immigrants and the children
of immigrants. The star of the team was Zinedine Zidane, a brilliant player of
Algerian descent.

That progress now seems to have evaporated. At La Cite, it seems clear that Mr.
bin Laden has contrived to express the rage of many dispossessed Muslims.

"You want us to weep for the Americans when they bomb and kill Palestinians and
Iraqis every day?" said Mohaam Abak, 21, a Moroccan immigrant who sat with two
friends on a bench. "We want more Americans to die so they can begin to see what
it feels like."

All the tensions between France's Muslims, most from North Africa, and the rest
of French society have bubbled into the open in the last month in the sprawling
"banlieue," the working-class suburbs populated by ethnic minorities that
surround most French cities.

La Cite des 4,000 -- named because it had 4,000 public housing apartments at the
time of its construction -- is the most notorious. Heavily armed policemen,
since Sept. 11, have become more visible, where they patrol past huge
spray-painted slogans that denounce the French government as fascist.

Moroccan and Algerian flags hang from windows, placed there the day the bombing
strikes on Afghanistan began. When news of the attack on the World Trade Center
reached the projects, young men streamed onto the cracked cement courtyards
outside the 15-story apartment blocks to clap, whistle, cheer and shout in
Arabic, "God is great!"

"America declared war on Muslims a long time ago," said Laala Teula, 66, an
Algerian immigrant who worked for many years as a mechanic for the railroad.
"This is just the response."

Evidently concerned, the government has appealed for the integration of Muslims.
"Young people, whatever their origin, are at home in here," said the French
interior minister, Daniel Vaillant, this past Saturday, "but they must behave as
French who desire peace and national cohesion."

In this bleak suburban environment, such appeals have little impact. Claudette
Dana, 47, waits for the elevator to her seventh-floor apartment. In the foyer
outside, seven young men, all of North African descent and members of one of the
three major gangs that dominate the projects, stand waiting. They throw rocks at
the reporter she is speaking with, curse the United States and begin, like many
who saw someone new visiting the projects, to chant "Osama bin Laden! Osama bin
Laden! Osama bin Laden!" Mrs. Dana, whose husband is a firefighter and who lives
on a disability check after two bouts with cancer, says that in the 30 years she
has lived in the projects she has never seen such anger.

When the elevator door opens on the seventh floor, she points to a freshly
painted white swath on the wall. Mrs. Dana, one of the few Jews in the projects,
came home a few days ago to find the words "Death to the Jews" scrawled next to
her door.

"I had to paint that slogan out," she says. "It scared my two sons.  They want
us to move."

The French government has plans to tear down the dreary blocks, standing
northeast of Paris and built in the 1960's, which are now run down and beyond
repair.

One 15-story block, home to 1,200 people, was demolished a year ago, and Mrs.
Dana said her building would go, as soon as the government finds a place to move
everyone. But the eradication of the buildings will probably do little to bridge
the chasm between those of North African descent and the rest of European
society.

French Ministry of Interior officials who direct the battle against the cells
linked with Mr. bin Laden's network have arrested 30 Muslims in recent days
suspected of plotting attacks, including four who they say planned an attack
during the France-Algeria soccer match.

Several members of armed terrorist cells, including two who in 1994
machine-gunned the lobby of a hotel in Marrakesh, killing two Spanish tourists
and seriously wounding a third, came from La Cite des 4,000.  At least two dozen
young men from the projects received training in camps in Afghanistan, French
officials said.

"There is little in their lives that validates them," said a French Ministry of
Interior official. "They find in radical Islam a cause."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Laala Teula, 66, and his wife outside their apartment
building in La Cite des 4,000. The Algerian immigrants are part of a huge Muslim
population in France. A policemen, left, dragged away a spectator after dozens
of Algerian supporters invaded the field during the France-Algeria soccer match
on Oct. 6. (Elise Colette for The New York Times); (Associated Press) Map of
Paris, France, highlighting La Courneuve: La Courneuve is a slum where Muslim
immigrant rage festers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE 20th SUSPECT;
Man Held in U.S. Was Wired 2 Large Sums From Germany

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15


A 33-year-old immigrant who has emerged as a key suspect in the investigation of
the Sept. 11 terror attacks received $15,000 in unexplained money transfers from
Germany in August, say German investigators who are trying to determine if the
plot had its origins in their country.

American law enforcement officials say they suspect that the man, Zacarias
Moussaoui, a French citizen of Moroccan descent, was meant to be the 20th
hijacker in the attacks.

Mr. Moussaoui was arrested on Aug. 17 on immigration charges after a Minnesota
flight school contacted the F.B.I. to report that he had been acting
suspiciously. Instructors were especially alarmed by his request to learn how to
fly large jet aircraft but not how to take off or land.

German officials are trying to determine if Mr. Moussaoui, who is reported to be
in custody in New York, has ties to a terrorist cell of Muslim fundamentalist
students in Hamburg, Germany. The cell has been linked to the hijackings of the
four airliners.

German investigators said money was wired to Mr. Moussaoui in Minnesota twice
through Western Union in the month before the hijackings -- $10,000 from
Dusseldorf on Aug. 1 and $5,000 from Hamburg on Aug. 3.

On Aug. 13, Mr. Moussaoui began a $8,300 training course at the Minnesota flight
school. He had trained earlier in Norman, Okla.

Mr. Moussaoui has refused to talk with law enforcement officials and is facing
deportation. American investigators have said they have been unable to find a
clear link between him and the 19 hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks.

German authorities have said, however, that Mr. Moussaoui had at least one
telephone conversation with the landlord of an apartment rented by Mohamed Atta,
an Egyptian who the authorities believe was a ringleader among the hijackers.

Federal investigators wonder whether a closer look at Mr. Moussaoui before Sept.
11 might have prevented the attacks.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zacarias Moussaoui aroused suspicions at a flight school.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 18, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: OTTAWA;
Canada Pushes Broad Antiterror Measure, Alarming Some Who Fear Erosion of Rights

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Oct. 17


The Canadian government introduced the most stringent antiterrorism legislation
in the country's history this week, allowing preventive arrests and broader
electronic surveillance.

It also grants the power to compel testimony during investigations, setting
aside the right to remain silent to avoid self-incrimination.

Taken together with new regulations stepping up border operations and revamping
immigration procedures since the attacks on the United States on Sept. 11, the
legislation represents the first step toward dealing with a new sense of danger
across North America, Foreign Minister John Manley said in an interview today.

He said the government would also consider establishing a foreign intelligence
service, which Canada does not have.

The measures are being promoted as making Canada safer, not as a response to
similar new laws in the United States or Britain, which they resemble.

"There's quite an instinctive realization that what happened on Sept. 11 may
have been an attack on somewhat symbolic targets but that they were symbols of
open and free societies, including our own," said Mr. Manley, who is chairman of
a cabinet committee on antiterrorism.

"I think Canadians understand perfectly well that we would be naive to believe
that we do not have people linked to Al Qaeda within Canada and that they might
take action against Canada," he said. "After all, we are the third-largest
contributor in a military sense to the campaign that's going on now."

As Mr. Manley spoke, Prime Minister Jean Chretien was in Halifax, Nova Scotia,
seeing off three Canadian ships -- a destroyer, a frigate and a supply ship --
headed for the Arabian Sea to join the American-led coalition attacking
Afghanistan. Canada has pledged ships, aircraft and about 2,000 troops to the
campaign..

The antiterrorism bill, presented to Parliament on Monday, is subject to weeks
of debate and committee hearings, and its final form is uncertain.

Legal experts, civil rights organizations and advocates of immigrant rights and
a liberal asylum policy are alarmed at the sweep of the proposal and have raised
questions about other measures already announced to expand the powers of the
police and immigration authorities.

Simon Potter, the first vice president of the Canadian Bar Association, said in
an interview today that the organization saw "red flags" in the legislation and
had formed a team of lawyers to study it and recommend changes to the
government.

"In many, many aspects, it does things that Canada has never seen before," said
Mr. Potter, an expert on constitutional law. The only parallel, he said, was a
war powers act invoked briefly in Quebec in October 1970, when armed separatists
took hostages and assassinated the provincial justice minister.

"Even if we accept that enhanced enforcement powers are needed, and even if we
accept that the point of balance between security and individual rights has
shifted, we nevertheless have to work to make that new balance," he said.

"This new legislation has causes for concern: the definition what terrorist
activities are, the provision for preventative arrest and the provision for
forcing people to testify even if they don't want to. It is disturbing to think
that police can arrest you and keep you until they think you aren't going to be
a menace any more."

He added that since Canadians do not have constitutional protection against
self-incrimination, compulsory testimony is worrying. "Never in Canada have we
forced people to abandon their right to silence in an investigation," he said.

In separate actions earlier this month, Canada's immigration minister, Elinor
Caplan, announced that 300 more immigration and customs officers would be hired
to screen would-be refugees or asylum-seekers and detain those found potentially
dangerous. Immigrants will have to carry a plastic identity card, not unlike the
American "green card," enhanced with a magnetic stripe and photograph. An
earlier version of this card was found to be easy to tamper with or forge.

Tighter border controls are a problem for both Canada and the United States,
given the length of their border and the isolation of many areas.

The Canadian government remains opposed to integrated American-Canadian
immigration and asylum policies and practices, however. Such policies, intended
to form a North American "security perimeter," have been proposed for several
years by the United States.

"I'm concerned that the perimeter concept is something that is not well defined,
and it lies out there somewhere, and we may get to it sometime," Mr. Manley said
today.

"Right now, in the urgency of the time, we need to deal with real, practical
problems because we've got a border that is the busiest in the world, on which
two economies depend -- and it's moving slowly." He said that if traffic was
suffering fewer delays, it was because freight volumes "are way down." About
$1.5 billion in commerce crosses the border daily at the best of times.

Mr. Manley would not be drawn into a defense of Canada against persistent
allegations that it bore responsibility for terrorists entering the United
States. He said that even his American friends still seemed to believe that two
of the Sept. 11 hijackers had gone to Boston from Canada, though neither
American nor Canadian investigators have reported any evidence of this. He said
Canadian diplomats in the United States had been asked to counter these
assertions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Family of the crew of the Canadian destroyer Iroquois showed
support yesterday as the ship left Halifax, Nova Scotia, for the Arabian Sea.
(Andrew Vaughan/Canadian Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 18, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE HARBOR;
Coast Guard's Gunboats On Watch Against Attack

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1053 words


A half dozen times a day, in the choppy waters off Staten Island, a team of
Coast Guard officers, police and federal agents board the 800-foot-long cargo
ships that steam into the Port of New York and New Jersey from points around the
world.

For the next 90 minutes, the boarding team examines the ship's cargo manifest,
confirms that the load is what it is supposed to be and demands to see proof of
identity from a crew of 20 or so sailors. Occasionally, the officers will takes
explosives-sniffing dogs aboard or have Immigration and Naturalization Service
agents escort undocumented immigrants to shore.

The fight against terrorism being waged in the waters of New York Harbor in the
aftermath of the attack on the World Trade Center is no less daunting than
security efforts on the ground, at airports and on the roads.

Dozens of Coast Guard cutters are patrolling security zones around New York's
waterside landmarks, emergency-operation centers and chemical plants. Gunboats
are maneuvering to and fro. The Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor is
issuing new, tamper-proof photo ID cards for thousands of longshoremen. And a
domestic port security operation unprecedented since World War II is under way,
said Commander Michael McAllister, the operations chief for the Coast Guard in
New York, which is in charge of security on the water.

About 10,000 ships go in and out of New York's seaport in an average year, each
with plenty of nooks that could hide terrorists or the tools of mass
destruction.

In terms of cargo volume, the port is the largest container port on the East
Coast. More than three million cargo containers (each one, on average, weighing
13.3 tons) come through each year, full of everything from sneakers to stereos
to steel.

New York is the largest petroleum port in the nation, with more than 30 billion
gallons of petroleum, oil and other lubricants delivered annually. Everything
from jet fuel for Newark International Airport to home heating oil to gasoline
comes through the port. And, according to a 1999 study by the United States Army
Corps of Engineers, the port provides more than 166,000 jobs and $20 billion in
annual economic activity.

On the shores around the port, there are about 200 waterfront facilities that
deal with hazardous materials, said Beth Rooney, a port security coordinator for
the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.

Among them, to the north, on the the Hudson River, are the Indian Point nuclear
power plants in Westchester County. To the south, past the Goethals Bridge,
which connects Staten Island and New Jersey, there is a profusion of chemical
and petroleum plants.

As officials try to choose between security measures that are doable and those
that are practical, they have already curtailed certain security measures
imposed last month.

Coast Guard officials had shut the port completely for two days after Sept. 11,
and then boarded every cargo vessel until Sept. 28. Now they inspect selected
ships and board up to half of the 20 or so daily arrivals.

To do this, they are collecting information from the cargo ships 96 hours in
advance, passing that data to various law enforcement agencies, including the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and boarding those deemed to pose the highest
risk, such as ships from some Middle Eastern nations.

"Obviously, something coming from a country we're at war with would draw our
attention for targeting much more than something coming from a country we're not
at war with," said Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Brian T. Fisher.

Recreational vessels are allowed in the harbor only during daylight hours. And
cruise ships that normally call at the port must go elsewhere, because the city
is using their terminal on the Hudson River for emergency operations.

Last week, the port's Harbor Safety, Navigation and Operations committee set up
a new security task force, made up of a cross section of maritime industries and
law enforcement agencies, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, which is studying the consequences of a liquefied-gas explosion,
either on land or a ship.

"We're interested in knowing, 'Is it enough to take out a bridge? Or to level a
neighborhood?' " said Edwin A. Levine, NOAA's scientific support coordinator.

Maritime experts and Coast Guard officials say they do not want the waterways to
become a target deemed vulnerable by terrorists.

"There are two potential types of attack that most concern pilots," Capt.
Michael R. Watson, president of the American Pilots' Association, a national
trade association, told a Senate committee on maritime security last week.

"The first would be where one or more individuals takes control of the ship away
from the pilot with the intention of steering it into another ship, a bridge, a
fuel dock or some other structure with maximum destructive potential," he said.
"The second would be, as in the case of the U.S.S. Cole, a deliberate suicide
attack on a vessel carrying hazardous cargoes."

This makes for steady pressure on the men and women of the Coast Guard. Last
week, as Coast Guard Petty Officer Brendan Fitzpatrick steered his 41-foot
cutter north through the quiet New York Harbor, there were four cargo ships off
the starboard side that had already been directed to proceed under the
Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.

To his port side was the Statue of Liberty, protected by a red and white Coast
Guard cutter. And straight off in the distance was a gray and white Coast Guard
Port Security Unit, a 25-foot Boston Whaler with three crew members in
camouflage whose orders were to protect the Mayor's Office of Emergency
Management bunker at Pier 92 on the Hudson.

Those boats, known as River Rats, had not been deployed in a domestic harbor in
more than 50 years, crew members said. The unit was on duty in New York for
about a month before returning to its Virginia base this week.

As Petty Officer Fitzpatrick pulled up to the Boston Whaler, which had a .50-
caliber machine gun in front and two M-60 machine guns in back, one of the men
on board, Petty Officer Harry Cantey, slowed its engines and leaned over to
speak.

"We've deployed to Panama, Turkey, Egypt," said Petty Officer Cantey, a Vietnam
veteran from South Carolina who spoke with a slow cadence.

"And, ah, New York City," he said. "I would have never thought I'd be here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Coast Guard cutter patrols New York Harbor, where arriving
ships face increased scrutiny because of fears of attacks by terrorists. (Nicole
Bengiveno/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2001 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe Wary of Wider Doors for Immigrants

BYLINE:   By SUZANNE DALEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1350 words

DATELINE: MONTGERON, France, Oct. 17


In the wake of the terror attacks in the United States, Gerard Herault, the
mayor of this tidy Paris suburb, took the step he could to reduce immigration to
France: he decided he would no longer issue "certificates of welcome," the
papers required to show that a potential visitor, asking for a visa, has a place
to stay.

He readily acknowledges that most requests for the certificates come from the
three low-income housing projects here, home to thousands of poor Muslims of
North African origins. In 1998, he got about 50 requests for certificates.
Already this year, he said, he has had more than five times that many.

"I am not saying that immigration equals terrorism," Mr. Herault said the other
day, before giving a tour of his largely well-to-do town of 23,000. "But people
come here and we don't know much about them and we don't know when they actually
leave. And, in fact, many do not leave."

The mayor's actions are one more indication of how the terror attacks have
heightened suspicion and fear of immigrants not only in France, which has
Europe's largest concentration of Muslims, but across the continent.

Even before Sept. 11, France had an uneasy relationship with its Muslims, most
from former North African colonies who have long complained of being
marginalized and discriminated against. Those strains have only worsened here
and elsewhere, particularly as it becomes clear that European cities as open and
affluent as Hamburg were used as terrorist bases.

Many experts now expect that the attacks could undercut what had been a growing
movement toward more liberal immigration policies in France and other European
Union countries, whose Muslim populations have steadily grown as their economies
and social safety nets have made them magnets for migrants from across the
world.

Mr. Herault was not the only French mayor to suddenly refuse to sign the
certificates. Two others from southern French towns with large Muslim
populations did the same. While their decisions probably amount to no more than
an inconvenience for the visa seekers -- police officials can also issue the
papers -- they are a sign of a shift in the political winds.

"The events in America have produced a totally different atmosphere in the
society here," said Karl Kopp, a spokesman for ProAsyl, a German refugee
advocacy group. "Now everyone is talking about asylum seekers who might be
terrorists. We were on the way to a new way of thinking, but now the liberal
approach has just been stopped dead."

Before the Sept. 11 attacks, the European Commission had been encouraging the
European Union's 15 members to write broader, more generous definitions of
refugee rights. Both Britain and Germany, each with sizable Muslim populations
of their own, had proposals for the creation of nonrefugee status for some
immigrants, much like America's green-card system. In recent years, people
wanting to immigrate to Europe have generally had to portray themselves as
refugees.

After years of debate, a consensus had been building that the old "fortress
Europe" zero-immigration mentality was not going to work. With a low birth rate
and an aging population, Europe seemed to have recognized that it needed
immigrants if it was to grow and prosper.

But since the attacks, the signs of backpedaling have multiplied.

Germany's interior minister, Otto Schilly, delayed debate on a nonrefugee bill,
intended to attract much-needed skilled labor into the high-technology sector,
saying it needed to be re-evaluated.

Britain announced a stricter system of security checks for asylum seekers
suspected of involvement in terrorism.

In Austria, far-right populist Jorg Haider said that only European asylum
seekers should be allowed to reside in the European Union while awaiting a
decision on their applications. The others would go to "safe third states" on
their own continents.

In Italy, a high-level government official declared on television this week that
the country should consider excluding Muslims from immigration. "Given the
situation of peril," said Francesco Speroni, chief of staff to the minister of
reforms, Umberto Bossi, "let's close the borders to Muslims because no one
forces us to have them here." He compared such a policy to the American decision
during World War II to intern citizens of Japanese descent.

Even in the Netherlands, a country renowned for its tolerance, one poll showed
last month that more than 60 percent of the Dutch believed that Muslims who
approve of the terrorist attacks against the United States should be deported.

These remarkable poll results came after widespread coverage of Islamic
youngsters in the Netherlands celebrating the attacks in New York and
Washington.

Some 15 young people in Ede made the national news when they were seen
celebrating in the streets while making a V-sign for victory and calling Osama
bin Laden "our leader." Teachers in some schools with primarily foreign students
declared they did not observe the three minutes of silence in honor of victims.

The Dutch are not the only ones reeling from expressions of support for the
terror attacks by Muslim youth. The French, too, have been horrified by reports
that there was cheering and chanting in Muslim neighborhoods from Paris to Lyon
after the attacks.

Such incidents, experts say, illustrate the tensions between Europe and its
large and varied Muslim populations. The estimates of the populations vary
widely, ranging as high as four and half million in France, more than three
million, mostly Turks, in Germany and about two million, mostly Pakistanis, in
Britain, the scene of violent race riots just a few months ago.

Throughout Europe these populations have complained of being made second-class
citizens. They are much more likely than whites to be jobless and uneducated.
Their young men, they say, are far more likely to be harassed by the police.
Resentment has been building.

In recent years, more attention has been directed at these problems. Countries
including France have begun to look at affirmative action programs. But the
reactions of some Muslim youth to the attacks on America have been deeply
disturbing to many Europeans.

It was after these incidents that all three French mayors, one a socialist, two
from President Jacques Chirac's conservative party, announced they would no
longer sign the "certificates of welcome." All have been denounced by various
groups, including SOS Racisme, a French human rights advocacy group. One mayor
was taken to court, but the judge in the case said he could not act without a
specific complaint. Still, the groups said they had made their point.

Many experts believe, however, that the events of Sept. 11 mean that discussions
of migrant, refugee and asylum policies will now take place in a context where
antiterrorist efforts take priority. Few doubt that conservative voices have
been given more strength in arguing against liberal immigration and refugee
policies.

"Of course, it has an impact," said Michael Emerson, a senior research fellow at
the Center for European Policy Studies. "It will change the course of events,
but exactly how is hard to predict."

Mr. Emerson and others say that Europe cannot simply shut its doors. In
addition, it must deal with the fact that European countries have different
approaches to asylum seekers and migrants, a fact that has led to some tense
situations.

In France, for instance, thousands of refugees and migrants have gathered at the
entrance to the English Channel tunnel in the hopes of hiding in trains and
trucks headed to Britain, which has more generous policies than France.

Mr. Emerson says he believes that Europe will begin adopting new immigration
policies, though as a rule they will be more conservative than they might have
been. He also believes that some issues like common asylum rules and a common
definition of terrorism will take priority, while others like decisions over
long-term migration policies will be put off.

"Europe needs an influx of migrants," Mr. Emerson said. "Otherwise there will be
all kinds of consequences, including our pension systems going bust."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 2001



CORRECTION: A chart on Oct. 20 with an article about the effect of the Sept. 11
terrorism in undercutting support for broader immigration policies in Europe
misstated the percentage of Austria's population that is Muslim. Most estimates
place Muslims at 2 to 4 percent of the population; 17 was the percentage for all
who say they are not Catholic.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Muslims praying in London, left, and Milan, above; at right,
the minaret of a mosque in Germany. Several European countries, concerned about
terrorism, are re-evaluating plans to make immigration easier. (Associated
Press); (Agence France-Presse) Chart: "Muslims in Europe"A look at some of the
world's Muslim populations, according to the C.I.A. World Fact Book. These
numbers are much higher by some estimates. MUSLIM POPULATION (PCT. TOTAL POP.)
Austria: 1,385,642 (17%)Britain: 1,000,000 (2%)France: 1,786,538 (3%)Germany:
1,411,502 (2%)Greece: 138,110 (1%)Netherlands: 703,185 (4%)Yugoslavia: 202,865
(19%) Map of Europe highlighting above countries.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Marriabad Journal;
Minutes From Cries of Jihad, Town Dreams of U.S.

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: MARRIABAD, Pakistan


In this modest mountainside town in southwestern Pakistan, young boys, instead
of waving banners proclaiming death to America, fly homemade kites.

The tumult of Quetta is only a 15-minute ride away on the gaudy buses that ply
the chaotic streets, but Marriabad is an oasis in a parched desert of angry
protesters and Osama bin Laden posters. Here America is not the target of a tide
of hatred, but the Oz of ambitions and dreams.

"I want to be a doctor," said Abdul Ali, a handsome 12-year-old boy with a shy
smile, the third of nine children in an immigrant Afghan family. "I want to go
to America and be a surgeon."

A few feet away, Muhammad Mehdi, 16, overheard Abdul and volunteered that he was
studying computer programming so he could go to America. But he was unsure about
his chances. "Are the borders of America closed?" he asked.

Pakistan is a divided country that has tested nuclear devices. Predictions of
civil war are not taken lightly, and the religious extremists have dominated the
headlines since the first American attacks on Afghanistan. Yet there are havens
from hostility, even if they are not quite tranquil.

Some of these places are cultured and affluent, like Lahore, the gracious city
in eastern Pakistan. Others are rougher and poorer, like Marriabad.

No one is quite sure when the first people moved to Marriabad. The best guess is
25 or 30 years ago. What is certain is that they were poor, like everyone who
has come since. The village rests in the foothills of the rugged Chiltan
mountain range on the eastern boundary of Quetta, and only the poor would move
so far from the flatlands of the city center.

By the 1990's, the simple adobe houses had climbed the sides of the geological
rubble, pushed ever-upward by Afghan refugees fleeing Soviet invaders and civil
war.

The town became a magnet for the Hazaras, resilient refugees from central and
western Afghanistan. They trace their lineage to Genghis Khan's Mongol warriors,
and their ancestors built the giant Buddhas in Bamiyan that were destroyed by
the Taliban in March.

The Hazaras long ago converted to Islam, but they have had an often-violent
rivalry with the Pashtuns, who dominate Afghanistan. When the Taliban, who are
Pashtun, took control of most of the country, the exodus of Hazaras increased
manyfold.

The population of Marriabad has swelled to about 100,000 -- a lakh, or quite a
lot, in local parlance. A majority are Hazara, but they live peacefully
alongside Pakistanis. There are private schools, electricity and water carried
to the highest points in the village through a crude maze of pipes and pumps.

Make no mistake, the place is poor. The main businesses are the staples of
poverty -- bakeries selling flat loaves of Afghani bread for 8 cents, vegetable
vendors and cobblers repairing aged shoes and sandals. Many people are
vegetarians by necessity, and lucky families share a chicken once a week.

There are no roads to the houses perched in the upper reaches of the town, only
narrow stairs carved into the ancient rock. So the poorest people are relegated
to the highest land and the longest walk from the markets for women balancing
sacks of vegetables and bread on their heads.

Still, there is hope on the hill. Children played happily on the well-swept dirt
stairs recently, and a dozen little girls squealed with delight as a man pushed
them on a homemade Ferris wheel six feet high. Women can walk the streets with
their faces uncovered and girls go to school.

While firebrand clerics in Quetta send their followers into the streets to
denounce the United States and Britain, the biggest hope expressed these days in
Marriabad is that the Taliban will be crushed.

"Americans should finish the Taliban from Afghanistan," Khadin Hussain, 22, said
as he paused from tacking a new sole on a worn sandal. "The bombing is good."

The enduring hope here, which existed before this calamitous war on terror and
which is sure to persist after the last bomb is dropped, is to go to America.

English is the most popular subject in the town's schools and most children know
a phrase or two. Walking down the streets or trudging up the steep stairs,
visitors hear the smallest children call out: "Where are you from?" and "What is
your name?"

Some know little more than those phrases and are flummoxed by a response. Others
have mastered the language of their dreams.

"I want to speak English well," Imran Hussain, 14, a student at the English
Language Center, said proudly. "The time will come when all the languages will
finish and only English will survive. Then I will be able to go to America."

Abdul Hamid Changazi, 24, speaks English well and works as a clerk at a hospital
in Quetta. He saves as much as possible from pay of $50 a month so he and his
wife might go to America. "All people want to go to America," he said. "They
struggle more and more to go to America. Some from here have left. One man sold
his house and his property and he went to America. Or maybe London."

Mr. Changazi is a realist, though. He said he understands the long odds against
getting to America, or escaping the subsistence existence of Marriabad. When he
heard Abdul Ali, the young boy who wants to be a surgeon, say he planned to go
to America, he shook his head gently and took his visitor aside.

"Soon that boy will have to leave school and go to work to earn something for
home," he whispered. "His future is not so bright. Our real hope is to go home
to Afghanistan."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Muhammad Adi, 12, flying his kite from his mountainous home of
Marriabad, overlooking Quetta, Pakistan. Below, residents must trudge up and
down narrow stairs carved into ancient rock to reach their houses. (Photographs
by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) Map of Pakistan highlighting Marriabad:
In Marriabad, young people speak of going to the United States.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Immigrant Victims With Dreams of Success

BYLINE:  By JACOB H. FRIES

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 497 words


Two co-workers among the five killed on Wednesday in a scaffolding collapse in
Manhattan shared a common immigrant dream: make it in America and take it back
home, their friends and relatives said yesterday.

Donato Conde came from Mexico with plans to build a house back home. Efrain
Gonzalez came from Ecuador with aspirations of being his own boss some day.
Families of the other three workers killed -- Manuel Balavezo, Ivan Pillacela, a
third whose name has not yet been released -- could not be reached last night.

Each day, the men's lives intersected for a shift at 215 Park Avenue South, a
20-story office building. They worked together repointing bricks and cleaning
windows from a scaffolding 160 feet high.

It was there that they made a living, lugging bricks and working on the
building's southern facade. It was there, around 4 p.m. on Wednesday, that they
tumbled to their death, crushed when the steel and wood of the scaffolding
buckled and broke. Ten other co-workers were injured in the collapse.

Godofredo Pineda, 33, a longtime friend of Mr. Conde, 19, said, "He might have
married at the end of this year, during Christmastime.," Mr. Pineda said Mr.
Conde had a girlfriend back in Mexico and a house he had built in San Bartolo
Cohuecan, the small town where both of them grew up.

Mr. Conde had been living illegally in New York City for two years, Mr. Pineda
said, working the night shift at a deli and most recently doing construction
work, though he had no training. Mr. Pineda said he had not heard anything from
his friend's employer and did not know if he was insured.

Mr. Gonzalez, too, was trying to get ahead, his relatives said. Six years ago,
he left the city of Cuenca, the third largest in Ecuador, with hopes of one day
returning home and opening his own grocery store, they said. When he arrived
here, the relatives said, he lived in Spanish Harlem with family and began
working at an Upper East Side restaurant.

Later he found himself doing construction work five days a week and liking it,
taking home cash at the end of each shift, they said. "He was pleased with his
job," said his brother-in-law, Vicente Patio, in Spanish. "He wanted to be a
welder, and his boss gave him that opportunity."

The job provided him with a life in America, but more important, they said, it
provided him with extra money he mailed to his wife, Yolanda, and three children
in Ecuador, feeding the family's dreams of a prosperous future in their home
country.

"He was a very responsible father; he lived for them," said Laura Dutan, 29, his
sister-in-law. "He wanted his kids to come out ahead, for them to have what he
never had."

Ms. Dutan said she called friends in Ecuador yesterday and asked them to tell
Mrs. Gonzalez that her husband had died. She told them to be gentle. Mrs.
Gonzalez had just left the hospital after having her appendix removed, Ms. Dutan
said.

"We'll help her all we can," Mr. Patio said. "We won't abandon her after she
lost her husband."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Efrain Gonzalez, a worker who died in a collapse of scaffolding.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation Challenged

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1038 words


Expanding Powers

ANTI-TERROR BILL -- The Senate passed sweeping anti-terrorism legislation to
expand the government's ability to conduct electronic surveillance, detain
immigrants without charges and penetrate money-laundering banks.   A1

DEBATING THE PRICE -- Lawmakers hailed the anti-terrorism legislation as an
appropriate balance between civil liberties and the nation's security needs. But
civil liberties advocates asserted that the law jeopardizes fundamental rights.
B5


AIRPORT SECURITY -- The White House is supporting a House Republican plan that
puts the federal government in charge of baggage and passenger screening.   B5

DIRECTOR RESIGNS -- The director of the agency that runs Logan International
Airport in Boston resigned. The director, Virginia Buckingham, had been under
criticism because the airport was the departure point for the two hijacked
jetliners that hit the trade center.   B5

Foreigners Enlist

GREEN-CARD RECRUITS -- There is no simple explanation for why immigrants join
the United States military, but they do.   A1

An Atrocity Recounted

A GUERRILLA'S DEATH -- The sole survivor of the attack on Ahmed Shah Massoud,
the legendary commander of the forces opposed to the Taliban, gave his first
public account of the assassination.   B2

How the Taliban Are Faring

THE AIR CAMPAIGN -- American warplanes pounded Taliban forces along the front
lines with troop-killing and armor-penetrating cluster bombs for the first time.
B1

WELL SUPPLIED -- In small but significant ways, the Taliban ruling elite, their
guerrillas and their Arab and Pakistani warriors are surviving the American and
British bombs.   B3

NOT ENOUGH -- Northern Alliance commanders are complaining about the pace and
scale of the American airstrikes. They say the raids are doing more to bolster
Taliban morale than to erode it.   B3

The Smugglers

A DANGEROUS TRADE -- Smuggling is as old as Afghanistan itself, and it has never
been easy. Now, smugglers say their trade has become much more difficult and
dangerous.   B4

The Postwar Planners

CONCLAVE IN PAKISTAN -- Afghan leaders ended a two-day meeting by approving a
charter that envisaged a post-Taliban era of peace, harmony and the return of
the former king.   B4

DIPLOMACY -- European ministers are visiting countries around Afghanistan,
especially Iran, to try to smooth the way toward a government to replace the
Taliban.   B4

RAISING SUSPICIONS -- Two Indian men arrested the day after the terror attacks
had shaved most of the hair on their bodies, leading authorities to suspect that
they might have been ready to die in similar attacks.   B4

More Tests, More Potent

A DIFFERENT MESSAGE -- Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, said
publicly for the first time that the anthrax germs in a letter opened on Capitol
Hill were very pure, very concentrated and very deadly.   A1

MORE AID SOUGHT -- Tom Ridge turned away pleas from the nation's mayors for help
in paying millions in overtime to police and firefighters.   B9

LAB TESTS -- Some New York media organizations waited days for results of
laboratory tests for anthrax, while tests taken from the offices of Gov. Pataki
were done within 24 hours.   B1

SURVIVING ANTHRAX -- The first victim to survive the inhaled form of anthrax was
released from a Florida hospital. "Considering the circumstances, I feel good,"
said the man, Ernesto Blanco.   B9

ANOTHER CASE -- A mail handler at a State Department postal center is the fifth
postal worker in the Washington area to have a confirmed case of inhalation
anthrax.   B6

Stalking the Source

INQUIRY WIDENS -- Investigators said they were broadening their search for the
source of the highly refined anthrax that has killed three and has infected at
least four others.   B7

MACHINES CONTAMINATED -- Laboratory tests found anthrax contamination at four
high-speed sorting machines at the largest mail distribution center in New York
City.   B7

Protecting the Exposed

STERILIZING MAIL -- The Postal Service's decision to use electron beams to kill
harmful organisms in the mail has experts debating the possible impact on
everything from shipped eyeglasses to cookies.   B7

The Medical Response

OFFERING ANTIBIOTICS -- Three big pharmaceutical companies are offering the
government huge quantities of their antibiotics free of charge if the drugs are
approved for the treatment of anthrax.   A1

UNPREPARED -- Health experts and industry officials say that many hospitals are
far from ready for a surge of patients in the event of an attack.   B8

SMALLPOX VACCINE -- Tommy G. Thompson, the health and human services secretary,
said that he expected production of smallpox vaccine to begin by late November
or early December.   B8

OTHER DRUGS -- As doctors and health officials have been saying, Cipro is not
necessarily the undisputed drug of choice to treat anthrax.   B8

Strengthening Security

GERM WARFARE -- The House passed a bill to tighten regulation of microbes that
could be used by terrorists.   B9

TREATMENT CHANGES -- Federal health officials made several important changes in
their recommendations for treating both the skin and inhalation forms of
anthrax.   B9

NEW FOAM -- Cleanup workers are preparing to apply a new type of foam that kills
anthrax spores and bacteria to contaminated mailrooms on Capitol Hill.   B9

Aftermath in New York

ATTACK ORPHANS -- The calls came in a torrent, all eagerly offering to adopt a
trade center orphan. The problem, officials say, is there are none.   B1

BACTERIA SENT TO CLINTON -- Vials containing salmonella, which causes food
poisoning, were sent to former President Bill Clinton.   B10

FIRST CHECKS -- Cantor Fitzgerald is distributing more than $45 million in
bonuses to the families of employees lost in the trade center attack.   B10

TEMPORARY OFFICES -- The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, whose
headquarters at the trade center were destroyed, will split its nearly 2,000
workers between offices in Manhattan and Newark.   B10

Sports

TENNIS -- Citing security concerns, the United States Tennis Association has
withdrawn from the Fed Cup in Madrid next month.   S9

BASEBALL -- Phoenix, where the World Series begins on Saturday, is only modestly
anxious about the possibility of a terrorist attack.   A14

Portraits of Grief   B11

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE RECRUITS;
Not Yet Citizens but Eager to Fight for the U.S.

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN and SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words


As a youth in Kazakhstan, Alexandr Manin had no interest in the war that the
Soviet Union was waging in Afghanistan in the 1980's. But since arriving in New
York three years ago, he has had a change of heart, and has joined the military.

The United States military, that is.

Mr. Manin, who is here as a legal permanent resident but is not yet a United
States citizen, is scheduled to leave on Nov. 5 for basic training with the
Marines. The law allows permanent residents like him -- those who have a green
card -- to enlist.

"It doesn't matter that America is not my country; New York is my city, and what
happened shook my life," said Mr. Manin, a fast-talking 25-year-old from
Greenpoint, Brooklyn. "I feel patriotic, and I have this itch now to go sooner."

Particularly in New York, with its huge population of immigrants, many residents
for years have been signing up to fight under the American flag, even though
they do not carry an American passport. In fact, immigrant men and women seem
more likely to enlist than their native-born peers.

In New York City, 13 percent of those under the age of 18 are immigrants, both
legal and illegal. But in the Navy, 1,200, or 40 percent, of all New York City
recruits were green-card holders in the last year. In the Marines, the number is
363, or 36 percent; in the Army, it is 589, or 27 percent.

On a national level, the percentage of green-card military recruits is
relatively small, hovering around 5 percent for most services. Even so, the
proportions have been steadily rising in recent years, especially in cities like
Los Angeles and Miami.

There is no simple explanation for why these permanent residents opt for the
military. Some do it because they want to speed up the citizenship process. Some
do it because they are, like many immigrants, of meager means and believe that
the military offers economic and social mobility. And some do it because they
feel patriotic and want badly to belong.

That has been especially true during wartime historically, and the weeks after
Sept. 11 are no exception.

"There's an us versus them thing," said Philip Kasinitz, a sociologist at Hunter
College who studies the assimilation of the children of immigrants. "This
happens in wartime generally. As a result, a lot of immigrants and certainly the
children of immigrants feel a need to assert which side of the line they are
on."

Many of the green-card recruits in New York reflect the city's changing
demographics, and come from countries in Latin America and the Caribbean such as
the Dominican Republic, Jamaica and Ecuador.

And while there are proportionally fewer recruits with Asian backgrounds, one
immigrant from Hong Kong, Wai Wan, a 22-year-old from Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn,
recently joined the Air Force because he thought the technical training would
look impressive on his resume. But after Sept. 11, he felt a patriotic tug, too.

"We asked for computer-related jobs," said Mr. Wan, who signed up with a friend,
Alex Wong (a Brazilian green card holder). "But now, we've been looking for
combat-related jobs."

For immigrants, the military has long served as a gateway to the American
mainstream and a ticket to American acceptance. Indeed, to prove their loyalty,
many Japanese-American men volunteered in the Second World War, even as their
families were forced into internment camps as "enemy aliens."

There are tangible benefits as well. For permanent residents, military service
can shorten the wait to apply for citizenship from five to three years.

Between 1994 and 1999, more than 3,600 immigrants became United States citizens
through this provision, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
There is nothing in immigration law that prohibits illegal immigrants from
serving in the military, but the services say anyone without the proper
documentation is automatically rejected.

But even those immigrants who do qualify but are not citizens face restrictions,
too. They are not eligible for up to $17,000 in college tuition aid under the
R.O.T.C. program. They are generally not allowed to perform certain duties,
including reconnaissance, intelligence and data systems.

If they are from what the military deems to be a hostile country like
Afghanistan or Iraq, they need to go through additional security checks. But
residents from Egypt or Saudi Arabia, the birthplace of the Sept. 11 hijackers,
are not considered to be from hostile countries and need no special security
clearance.

Through the years, a few improbable figures have emerged from the gallery of
immigrant soldiers. The Marines can claim the famous -- Shaggy, the
Jamaican-born and Brooklyn-raised singer -- and the infamous -- Hussein Mohammed
Farah, the son of the late Somali warlord, Gen. Mohammed Farah Aidid.

But the numbers in New York now are stark. In some neighborhoods, like Flatbush
in Brooklyn or Washington Heights in Manhattan, up to 90 percent of recruits are
not yet citizens.

Some 40 percent of all Naval recruits in New York City in the last fiscal year
which ended in September, were green-card holders, up from perhaps 20 percent a
decade ago, said Senior Chief Tim Stewart of the Navy Recruiting District New
York. Throughout the country, the figure was 8 percent, up from 5 percent in
1995.

The Navy's national recruiter of the year was Petty Officer Second Class Lenny
Ramos, whose territory includes most of Manhattan. And one of his most recent
green-card recruits was Samantha Ruiz, 19, who moved to Washington Heights 11
years ago from the Dominican Republic and signed up two weeks ago.

This summer, she gave some thought, though not serious, to joining the military
because of the citizenship and travel perks. But then came the terrorist
attacks.

"That pushed me along to make me really want to join," said Ms. Ruiz, who now
spends much of her time as a volunteer in the Navy's recruiting office in
Harlem. "This is my home now. And I just felt, I would better be able to
contribute by being in the Navy."

In Lower Manhattan this week Gunnery Sgt. Duane Silvera, who is in charge of
Marine recruiting in Manhattan, welcomed Mr. Manin, the Kazakhstan native, into
his office near City Hall to go over some final preparations before he starts
basic training at Parris Island, S.C.

Mr. Manin said that his wife -- an American citizen whom he married in 1999 --
had mixed feelings. And his parents, who still live in his hometown of
Petropavlovsk, were uncomfortable with his decision because they know of too
many young men who never came back or were disabled after the Soviet war with
Afghanistan.

But he was unbowed. He talked excitedly about becoming an infantryman, maybe
doing reconnaissance work, maybe using his fluency in Kazakh (which is similar
to Uzbek), Russian, Polish and Czech.

"I've been asking that I can go to Afghanistan to participate," Mr. Manin said.

His brother, Pacha, a 20-year-old who is now studying English at Fordham, wanted
to enlist, too. But he is here on a student visa and does not have a green card
-- not yet.

But Sergeant Silvera, 35, said that if Pacha Manin gets his green card, he would
be a prime candidate. After all, Sergeant Silvera himself was a permanent
resident and Jamaican citizen when he enlisted in the Marines.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexandr Manin, who emigrated from Kazakhstan, has enlisted in
the United States Marine Corps. He will leave for basic training next month.
(Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Border Delays Grow, Process Draws Criticism

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Oct. 28


It is just 5:45 a.m., but 1,000 motorists are already marooned in traffic on an
international bridge here, enduring a two-hour wait for inspection by United
States border authorities as they commute from Juarez, Mexico, north to jobs,
schools and stores in El Paso.

Rudy Gamez, a warehouse clerk, is breakfasting at the wheel of his pickup,
clutching a burrito in his right fist as he slurps coffee from a mug. One car
back, a mother is applying makeup. Another motorist has drowsed into slumber.

Farther south in the line of cars extending six blocks into Mexico, a driver is
brushing his teeth. All across the Southwest frontier, where tightened security
since Sept. 11 has driven once-brief crossing times to three hours or more,
Americans and Mexicans are learning to live with perpetual border backups.

And although thousands of United States inspectors have been trying to minimize
delays, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has come under new criticism.
Some members of Congress say the agency lengthened the delays by failing to
complete a program to replace the outdated migration documents held by Mexicans
who routinely cross the frontier with a high-tech card that, in theory at least,
could allow quick, secure border checks.

Since 1998, the immigration service has issued four million of the
credit-card-size documents known as laser visas. But the agency has yet to
install machines to read the cards.

"I think it's outrageous," Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of Texas and
a former Border Patrol official who represents El Paso, said in an interview.
"They haven't identified the equipment they need. They don't even know yet how
much it'll cost."

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., an immigration service spokesman, said the laser visa
program has greatly reduced impostors' ability to enter the country with
counterfeit documents. But he acknowledged that the laser visas, which include a
digital photo and a fingerprint, were intended not only to increase border
security but also to speed up inspections by allowing officers to swipe the
cards through a digital reader similar to those used at grocery store checkout
counters.

"Without the machine reader, you can't work quicker, so it's important to get
the readers online," Mr. Bergeron said.

In testimony before Congress on Oct. 11, several experts described years of
mistakes as the immigration service has sought to apply high-technology
equipment along a southern border where truck, automobile and pedestrian traffic
has exploded since the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect in 1994.
Randolph C. Hite, a computer expert at the General Accounting Office, said
immigration administrators often seemed confused about what hi-tech equipment to
buy or how to use it.

Representative George W. Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania and chairman of the
Immigration Subcommittee, expressed irritation with the delays and demanded that
James W. Ziglar, the immigration service commissioner, report by March 1 on
progress toward installing the machines to read the laser visas.

Mr. Gekas said he demanded an exact date because "I want to put the bite on
this."

A tragedy last week made it clear that the border traffic jams could be fatal.
Two El Paso children, Ericka Valenzuela, 13, and her brother Daniel, 6, fell
asleep in the camper of their parents' 1980 pickup while it was mired in traffic
for 90 minutes on one of the four international bridges in El Paso. The family
had visited the children's grandparents in Juarez. Carbon monoxide fumes filled
the camper, poisoning the two children, whose deaths provoked an outpouring of
public grief.

Local authorities responded by posting ambulances at both ends of the
international bridges to aid commuters stricken with nausea, asthma attacks and
exhaustion as they wait for inspection under the desert sun.

El Paso is not the only crossing suffering delays. Waiting times have doubled or
tripled at many entry points on the 2,000-mile frontier. At San Ysidro, south of
San Diego, the busiest international checkpoint in the world, delays have been
90 minutes to two hours long, an immigration spokesman said. Crossing is slow
even at remote settlements like San Luis del Rio Colorado, where 30,000
pedestrians, most of them lettuce pickers, have been waiting 45 minutes or more
in recent days to cross into Arizona to harvest crops near Yuma.

Some officials here wonder whether the machine readers, when installed, will in
fact quicken inspections. Since the border was put on highest alert on Sept. 11,
immigration and United States Customs inspectors have been not only examining
drivers' documents more rigorously, but also opening every passing vehicle's
hood and trunk for a visual search.

Richard Duran, who oversees operations at El Paso's busiest crossing, the
freeway-style Bridge of the Americas, said the installation of the machines to
read the laser visas might actually lengthen inspection times because inspectors
checking cars full of passengers would have to swipe several visas through the
machine.

"That could take a while," said Mr. Duran, who has watched waiting times
increase from a few minutes in the early 1990's to the current two- and
three-hour delays. In an interview on Friday, he spoke of the endless traffic as
though it were a wild animal.

"We used to be able to break the traffic," he said, gazing south at the hundreds
of cars parked in 10 lanes of traffic arching over the bridge leading back into
Mexico. "We'd try to break it before midnight and most of the time we'd
accomplish that. Nowadays, we never break it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An immigration spokesman said laser visas have curbed impostors'
ability to enter the United States. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 1, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: FLIGHT DISRUPTIONS;
2 Passengers From Tokyo Are Detained In Seattle

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 31


F.B.I. agents and customs officials boarded a Northwest Airlines flight from
Tokyo at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport today and removed two men in
response to a biohazard threat, the authorities said. Passengers were held
aboard the plane for two and a half hours.

After being questioned, the two men were turned over the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

"They are being detained on administrative hold on issues concerning their legal
entry into the United States," said Robbi Burroughs in the F.B.I. office in
Seattle office.

A sweep of the plane and the luggage on board found no signs of hazardous
material, Clare Impett, a Port of Seattle spokeswoman, said.

Another Northwest flight from Tokyo was similarly detained at San Francisco
International Airport. After 50 minutes, the 170 passengers were allowed to
leave the plane.

In Tokyo, 59 passengers transferred from the Seattle-bound flight -- which
originated in Manila -- to the San Francisco-bound flight, said Ron Wilson, a
spokesman for the San Francisco airport. The two flights were at adjacent gates
in Tokyo and left around the same time.

"For some reason, the F.A.A. has suspicion that a courier or somebody may have
had anthrax transferring on these aircraft," Mr. Wilson said.

The Northwest flight to Seattle landed just after 6 a.m., but the remaining 201
passengers and 17 crew members were not allowed to leave the plane until 8:30
a.m.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation informed Seattle airport officials that
there might be a threat on board the plane. Two F.B.I. agents have been
stationed at the airport since the terrorist attacks on New York City and the
Pentagon on Sept. 11.

"Information was received today from an unnamed source indicating that an
individual on an incoming flight, originating in Manila en route to Seattle,
could pose a threat to public safety," an F.B.I. statement said. It did not
elaborate.

In a separate incident, the F.A.A. grounded jetliners at Pittsburgh
International Airport for a half-hour this morning, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
reported. Military jets were also scrambled in the incident to track a
single-engine airplane that flew near the Beaver Valley nuclear power plant in
Shippingport.

About 45 planes were grounded at the airport from 9:15 to 9:44 a.m. after
workers at the power plant called the authorities after becoming concerned about
a small plane flying over the plant. No identification numbers were visible on
the plane, and efforts to contact it were unsuccessful.

The plane was not shot down, and the incident ended uneventfully.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 5, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
Ill-Fated Path to America, Jail and Death

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1645 words


They found him around 10:30 on the morning of Oct. 23, lying face up on his cot,
inside a first-floor cell in the Hudson County Correctional Center in New
Jersey. Muhammad Rafiq Butt, a native of Pakistan, had been arrested for being
in the country illegally, one of hundreds who had been picked up on the basis of
tips from an anxious public in the days after the Sept. 11 attack on the trade
center.

A preliminary autopsy revealed that Mr. Butt, 55, whose one-year stay in the
United States seems to have been hapless from the very start, had coronary
disease and died of a heart attack. A one-day investigation into the death by
the local prosecutor concluded that no foul play had been involved.

So Mr. Butt's body was washed and embalmed according to Muslim custom. It was
placed in a sealed steel coffin and on the evening of Oct. 27 was shipped in the
cargo hold of Pakistan International Airways Flight 712, from Kennedy Airport to
Lahore, Pakistan -- all paid for by the federal government. Last week, Mr.
Butt's family buried him in his hometown, Jhelum.

His death obligated the Immigration and Naturalization Service to do something
it had not had to do during the 33 days it had him in custody: talk about him
publicly and explain the circumstances behind his arrest, detention and death.

It was revealed that he had been picked up after a tip to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation from the pastor of a church near his home in South Ozone Park,
Queens. His sole crime was overstaying his visitor visa. It took the F.B.I. a
day to determine that it had no interest in him for its investigation into
terrorism. He chose to appear at his deportation hearing without a lawyer, even
though he spoke virtually no English and had little education. From jail, he
made no calls to his relatives, nor to the Pakistani Consulate in New York.

No one seriously questions that Mr. Butt's death was anything but natural. But
it does give a rare glimpse into the process by which the government has
detained hundreds of people since the attacks and how little information is
publicly known about them. For some, including consular officials and Mr. Butt's
relatives, discovering the details surrounding his death only underscores how
little they had been told about his life in I.N.S. custody.

Of the more than 1,100 people that law enforcement authorities have picked up
since Sept. 11, about 200 have been held by the I.N.S. solely for violating the
nation's immigration laws. Federal officials have defended their enforcement
policies. And the United States attorney general has said that deporting people
who are in the country illegally is not only justifiable but also perhaps an
effective way to root out potential terrorist threats.

Mr. Butt, it turns out, was waiting to be sent home when he died. That day, Oct.
23, he and his fellow inmates were awakened as usual around 4 a.m. He ate
breakfast and lay down on his cot, his cellmate, another Pakistani held on
immigration charges, told authorities.

That man, whose name was not released, was out of the cell between 8:30 and
10:30 a.m. When he returned, he tried to wake Mr. Butt. He could not. Guards
were called. A jail doctor pronounced Mr. Butt dead at 11:05. Dr. Lionel
Anicette, the medical director at the correctional center, said Mr. Butt had had
a heart attack -- the sort of thing, he said, that could be "precipitated by
stress, sometimes acute stress."

Mr. Butt's tale is the quixotic journey of a man who set out for a new life in
America at the sore-back age of 54. The father of two sons and three daughters,
he came for the usual reasons: to make some money and, in his case, to be able
to marry off his daughters in style. "Whoever have enough money over there
doesn't come over here," is how his nephew, Muhammad Bilal Mirza, a taxi driver
from Brooklyn, explained Mr. Butt's reasons for emigrating.

Muhammad Rafiq Butt was born in another era: on Jan. 1, 1946, when what is now
Pakistan was still under British rule. He seems to have had little education. He
ran a clothing store with his older brother, Mansoor. Like many Pakistani men
with strong backs and mouths to feed, Mr. Butt also spent more than 10 years
traveling back and forth as a laborer in oil fields in Qatar and Dubai.

Last year, he got lucky: the United States government granted him a visitor
visa, and he came to New York on Sept. 24. But in New York his luck ran out. His
hair was gray, deep lines set in around his mouth. He had little success
scratching around for work. "Who hires a 54-, 55-year-old guy?" Mr. Mirza said.
"He has no paper. He don't speak English very well."

Driving a cab was out of the question; Mr. Butt had never been behind the wheel
of a car. He sold newspapers on the street for a while. He filled in at a deli.
A few months before his arrest, he found a job stacking boxes of sweets at a
popular Pakistani cafe in Jackson Heights.

Sometimes, Mr. Mirza said, he gave his uncle a little cash to get by; $20 went a
long way. "He no smoke, he no drink, he don't go nowhere," is how the nephew put
it. The last time he saw his uncle, the older man had come over to his house,
Mr. Mirza said. He told him he had had enough of this rat race. He wanted to go
home to his family in time for the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which begins on
Nov. 17.

When the authorities arrested Mr. Butt, they wrote this of his assets: "Subject
has $0.00 in his/her possession." His property receipt at the jail shows three
items: a laminated identification card from Pakistan; a copy of his Pakistani
passport; and an "envelope with misc. writing on it."

According to documents obtained from the I.N.S. under the Freedom of Information
Act, Mr. Butt came to the attention of the authorities on Sept. 13, from "lead
No. 1556."

That was a call from St. Anthony's Church to report that two vans -- one white,
one dark -- had stopped outside the apartment Mr. Butt shared with three
Pakistani men on 125th Street in South Ozone Park in Queens.

"When the doors of these vans were opened, at least six (6) Middle Eastern males
exited from each vehicle and immediately went into the residence," one document
states.

The pastor at St. Anthony's, the Rev. James Mueller, confirmed that he had
called the F.B.I. to report the van siting and two other incidents that he heard
about from "parishioners who were afraid." He declined to say anything more.

Lead No. 1556 led an F.B.I. special agent, along with an I.N.S. officer and two
New York City detectives, to knock on Mr. Butt's door on Sept. 19. Asked for his
papers, he could produce no more than photocopied pages of a passport and a visa
that had expired last December. The F.B.I. arrested him, but he turned out to be
of no use to its investigation. Early the next morning, the bureau turned him
over to the I.N.S., which filed deportation papers and sent him to the Hudson
County jail.

The customary basic medical examination at the jail showed a man in normal
health. He was deemed to be at no risk of suicide. His blood pressure was
normal: 100 over 70. He complained only of a pain in his mouth, and a jail
dentist, on Oct. 1, diagnosed gingivitis and prescribed an antibiotic.

Yet like much of Mr. Butt's life, the thing that killed him was revealed only
after his death.A preliminary autopsy showed that his coronary arteries had
narrowed.

In hindsight, the gingivitis could have served as a flag for a heart ailment,
said Emily Hornaday, a spokeswoman for the state medical examiner's office: gum
disease is sometimes found among heart patients. But the medical director at the
jail, Dr. Anicette, said that it was hardly routine to call for a cardiologist
just because a patient had gingivitis. Besides, he said, the inmate never
complained of chest pains, nor told a doctor about a heart problem.

Mr. Butt's one opportunity to make his case before an immigration judge came at
a hearing on Oct. 15, almost a month after he was arrested. But he appeared
without a lawyer. At his side was only an Urdu interpreter, who, according to
Mr. Butt's I.N.S. files, seems to have helped him check boxes and sign his name,
in Urdu, on countless forms.

At the hearing, before Judge Daniel A. Meisner, Mr. Butt accepted what is called
a voluntary departure order. He was to be sent home straight from jail. Why he
remained there, eight days later, is a mystery. The I.N.S. contends that it
requested travel documents from the Pakistani Consulate, but consulate officials
say they heard nothing from the agency until word of Mr. Butt's death.

Today, Mr. Butt's nephew, Mr. Mirza, says he is still bewildered by what
happened to his uncle in jail. Why did he never call? Why did the government
hold him when he was useless to its investigation and wanted to be sent home?
Mr. Mirza said he learned of his uncle's whereabouts only when another Pakistani
inmate called to tell the family of Mr. Butt's detention.

"Maybe he's upset and he don't understand what they're asking -- the I.N.S.,"
Mr. Mirza said. "Nobody says, 'You don't have to tell my consulate, you don't
have to tell my relatives."'

What Mr. Butt actually told anyone will most likely remain a mystery. His wishes
can be gleaned only in the series of checked boxes and official statements,
contained in his I.N.S. files.

For instance, on a form dated Sept. 20, when he was first taken into I.N.S.
custody, he is asked whether he wanted his consulate informed. The "No" box is
marked with an "X." Next to it stands his signature.

On another document, also dated Sept. 20, is this now-eerie first-person
account, typed above his signature: "I admit that I am in the United States
illegally, and I believe I do not face harm if I return to my country," the
statement reads. "I wish to return to my country as soon as arrangements can be
made to effect my departure. I understand I may be held in detention until my
departure."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muhammad Rafiq Butt, before he came to the United States. (pg.
B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 7, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Terror Follows Immigrants to America

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words


Immigrants who came to America to escape strife-torn nations and start
businesses in the homeland of entrepreneurship are suddenly facing some of the
same fears they had fled. They came here from the Middle East, from the former
Soviet bloc, from Africa, from Latin America. They left so they would never
again have to worry about governments regulating their every move or bombs
exploding in the streets or mustard missiles slamming into their homes.

And that is precisely what has made the last two months so painful for so many
of them: it is as if terror has followed them around the world.

In 1979, after the shah was ousted and Islamic militants seized American
hostages, Jeniette Melamed fled Iran for the United States. Ms. Melamed, then
the 20-year-old daughter of a Tehran tailor, objected to the new regime's harsh
religious rhetoric and its curbs on freedom and yearned for a country that would
let her pursue her entrepreneurial instincts. Even more, she longed for a stable
and free society in which to live.

She got both. Arriving in New York with little money and even less English, she
moved to Los Angeles and became a hostess at an International House of Pancakes,
working her way through school. In 1982, she and her new husband, Hamid, moved
back to New York and she opened a beauty salon with four employees on Fourth
Avenue. The business has since grown into a day spa on East 13th Street with 25
employees, most of them recent immigrants. "I could not have had this business
in Iran," she said.

Like untold millions of other Americans, Ms. Melamed, 43, has also discovered
the serenity of suburbia. She lives in a three-bedroom home on a tree-lined
street in Brookfield, N.Y., with Hamid, a grocer and owner of a Middle Eastern
restaurant in Roslyn, and her two children, aged 14 and 10. She drives a
Mercedes and the family takes an annual vacation in February, usually in Puerto
Rico.

For more than two decades, Ms. Melamed could not read about the warfare and
political upheavals of the Middle East without shuddering -- and thanking God
that she had escaped it all, even though she says she still loves and misses her
homeland.

Then came Sept. 11 -- and suddenly she brushed up against the horror that she
thought she had left behind forever. She was on the Long Island Rail Road
commuting to work when she heard about the planes that hit the World Trade
Center; she arrived at her shop in time to see the second building collapse. She
sent her staff home and waited to make sure they were safe before she left.
Since then, she has been gripped by crying jags and smoke-filled nightmares.

"For many years I told my kids: 'This is the best country. We are free. We are
wonderful; anyone can be president. In the United States, if you're not lazy,
you'll never go hungry.' "

"Now, though, it's tough," Ms. Melamed said. "I'm afraid for my kids, for their
futures. It's not fair. They took the flavor out of New York."

Her sister, Rosa Melamed, 46, who like Jeniette, uses her maiden name, has made
the same emotional journey. She moved to New York in 1988 with her husband and
young daughter after Iraqi missiles shattered her country. "America was the
house of hope, the land of promise," she said.

Then, for a few minutes on Sept. 11, she thought she was back home in Iran.
"Everyone was going crazy and I said, 'Don't cry, it's normal,' " she recalled.
"Then I realized for me it was normal, it was normal in Iran, but for everyone
else it wasn't."

John Ivanac experienced a similar role reversal. Mr. Ivanac made his way to the
United States in 1966 at 26 to escape the communism and economic stagnation of
his native Croatia, then part of communist-ruled Yugoslavia. Ten years ago, Mr.
Ivanac was frantically telephoning his relatives in Croatia during the war with
Serbia, not knowing if the calls would get through or even if anyone was alive
to pick them up.

But on Sept. 11, the calls flooded in the opposite direction from his relatives
to his two Midtown Manhattan restaurants, Villa Berulia and Trio.

"For three weeks, I've been so depressed," Mr. Ivanac said. The attacks on the
World Trade Center, he said, "affected me more than the war in Croatia.

"I knew there was a war there, and when there is a war, whether you like it or
not, someone's going to die," he added. "But this wasn't a war; this was a
regular working day." Since then, he said, his business is down 30 percent.

Some visitors from troubled foreign lands are even wondering if it would be
safer to go back home. Wahila Alam, a 28-year-old Pakistani physician, came to
New York a year ago to work as an H.I.V.-treatment project researcher with
Doctors of the World, a humanitarian organization that deploys medical
professionals both here and abroad.

When she arrived, Dr. Alam thought she had left behind the fears and
uncertainties endemic in countries like Pakistan that are in perpetual political
turmoil. But for eight hours on Sept. 11, she was unable to locate her husband,
who worked as a transportation engineer three blocks from the trade center.

"I was terrified," she said. "When I found out he was safe I thanked God, but
afterward you're scared. What's next? Is it safe to be here? Is it really worth
staying here?"

She has decided to do so. And other long-time immigrants who have taken American
citizenship say they are not plagued by such doubts and trumpet their
patriotism.

"This is by far the greatest country in the world," said George Feldenkreis, the
chairman and chief executive of Perry Ellis International, the Miami-based maker
of men's clothing. Mr. Feldenkreis, a Cuban Jew, came to Florida in February
1961, two months before the Bay of Pigs invasion. He remembers a world where
bombs exploded in Havana restaurants, friends were arrested for speaking out
against the government and soldiers gripped machine guns while standing guard.
And that was the country his parents had chosen as a haven after they fled
persecution in the Ukraine.

"The Americans have been very lucky that we have been able to have a very free
country with unlimited movement," he said. "The U.S. is one of the few countries
in the world that has never been touched. We are all very concerned that our way
of life will be changed forever. But I've lived through situations in life and I
tell my son, 'This too shall pass. We'll get used to it.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeniette Melamed, left, owner of a day spa on East 13th Street
in Manhattan, and her sister, Rosa Melamed, who works with her, fled Iran at
different times for America. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 8, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Levy Tells Berlin School Leaders Of New York Bilingual Program

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 7


As a guest of the American Academy here this week, the New York City schools
chancellor, Harold O. Levy, joins the ranks of people like Arthur Miller and
Susan Sontag who have also been lecturers at the academy. The academy, in a
stately residence on the shore of the Wannsee in Berlin, was founded in 1998 to
promote German-American ties in the arts, humanities and public affairs.

During his visit, Mr. Levy has met privately with the American and Israeli
ambassadors to Germany and visited schools. And at a news conference today, he
prompted a stir by describing the sheer size of the New York school system. Eyes
widened as he cited the numbers: 800,000 meals a day, 80,000 teachers and 4,000
school buses.

The main theme of his visit, however, has been immigration and bilingual
education, which he discussed Tuesday night in an address to German legislators
and educators. School administrators here face problems like those in New York
stemming from the need to teach foreign students who do not speak the dominant
language. The large immigrant population here includes many Turks, and officials
are debating a major legislative change to allow more immigration.

In discussing the New York bilingual program, Mr. Levy said: "If you look to how
the immigrant is treated, it defines in great part what the society is. It
speaks to who we are."

Mr. Levy's parents fled Germany during the Nazi regime. He grew up in New York
speaking a mixture of languages -- including Moseldeutsch, the dialect from his
parents' childhood region, North Rhein-Westphalia -- and took questions at his
lecture in his mother's tongue. "At home we spoke gemischt -- part English, part
German, part Mosel," he told the audience. "I hope you can understand me if I
speak gemischt."

In a visit to a Berlin school, students were less interested in New York City
schools than in the effects of the Sept. 11 attacks, he said in the Tuesday
night address. "I noticed they were a bit anti-American and pacifist," he said.
"Most of them opposed the American bombing in Afghanistan. One of them asked if
we have to meet violence with violence. I responded with the question of whether
pacifism would have been the right response to Hitler." The students agreed that
there were times to take up arms, he said.

Mr. Levy, who was invited two years ago, considered canceling after Sept. 11,
but decided to go through with the trip, he said, after being deeply moved by
the Berlin Philharmonic's determination to carry on with a concert at Carnegie
Hall. "I decided that in a profound sense I had to come," he said, "in order not
to be deterred by terrorism."

The trip also took him away from a mayoral contest in which he had a
considerable stake. For the first time in his life, he said, he did not vote.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy in Berlin this week. (Stefan
Doblinger for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 9, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Neediest Cases;
For Mexican Immigrants, Help in Bronx

BYLINE:  By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 802 words


In a bustling room on Willis Avenue in the South Bronx, a boy was enjoying his
first day in pottery class. He smiled as he rounded the edges of a coiled snake.

Suddenly, the boy started to cry, and dropped the clay snake as if it had bit
him. In a way, it had.

As he smoothed the clay, Federico Gonzalez, 13, flashed back to the sweet days
in Puebla, Mexico, when he and his father fetched clay from caves, or "mud
mines" as the locals called them, to make pottery pieces they would sell on the
streets. The pottery business put food on the table, and a special bond was
molded between father and son.

For little Federico, then 6, pottery was fun. For his family, it was fruitless.
"Federico cried because he thought back to those days with his father," days
that he misses very much, said his mother, Mary Gonzalez. "But life was so
difficult back there, we just had to leave," she said.

"Our family would sell about 100 pieces of pottery per week. And when we counted
our pesos, we made the equivalent of 20 American dollars -- it was terrible."

So in February 1994, seven members of Mrs. Gonzalez's family -- herself, her
husband, three daughters and two sons -- left the mud mines for the United
States, but their long road to a new beginning seems to have no end. "We don't
have any legal papers here," Mrs. Gonzalez said, "so it's hard for me and my
husband to get good jobs."

Raymundo, her husband, earns $5.50 an hour as a dishwasher for a catering hall,
but parties have been scarce since Sept. 11, and Raymundo's hours have been
severely cut. Mrs. Gonzalez helps by selling mangos and oranges near the
family's tiny apartment in the summer, and homemade specialties, like rice
pudding and tamales, in the winter.

As she spoke, Mrs. Gonzalez smiled at Federico, who was sneaking peeks at his
mother from a seat at Abraham House, an alternative to prison that provides
transitional housing for former convicts, as well as counseling and day care
services for their families.

Two of Mrs. Gonzalez's daughters are married with children, and each of their
husbands has spent time in prison. That brought the Gonzalez family to Abraham
House, which is run by Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of
the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

"When this family came to us, they couldn't read or write in either English or
Spanish," said Sister Simone Ponnet, the executive director of Abraham House.
"And most people who can't read don't keep calendars, so the kids didn't even
know when their birthdays were -- we had to guess their ages, and give them
birthdays."

Besides Federico, Mrs. Gonzalez also takes her daughter, Catalina, 10; her son,
Antonio, 9; and two grandchildren to Abraham House every day after school. They
are among 27 children, ages 3 to 13, who gather there each weekday to have
lunch, do their homework, work and play on computers and share in other
activities.

The Gonzalezes live nearby with three other family members in a one-bedroom
apartment on the fifth floor of a dilapidated tenement.

Inside the cluttered apartment, Catalina's bed is nothing more than four old
sofa cushions strung together on the cold tile floor, though Abraham House will
soon provide a bunk bed for her and Antonio. "Without the kind sisters from
Abraham House," Mrs. Gonzalez said, "life here wouldn't be much better for us
than it was in Mexico."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O.
Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK*
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or
online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service, at
www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to
the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450l

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the
charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes
to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Gonzalez in her apartment in the South Bronx. Her husband
has been a dishwasher for a catering hall, but work has become scarce. (Alan
Chin for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Fog of War' Marks Campaign as Australia Re-elects Leadership

BYLINE:  By JOHN SHAW

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 10


Prime Minister John Howard and his conservative government won a third term
today in national elections that focused on security and immigration issues.

Mr. Howard, 62, who took a hard-line stance against illegal immigration and
emphasized his support for the American-led war against terrorism, won with an
increased majority, according to counts by election officials and computer
projections by news media analysts.

With 80 percent of the vote counted, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation
reported that Mr. Howard's Liberal Party had won 67 seats in the 150-seat lower
house of Parliament. Its junior coalition partner, the National Party, won 12
seats, giving them a majority. The rival Labor Party, led by Kim Beazley, 52, a
former defense minister, won 65 seats, the network reported.

Australians also chose lawmakers for 40 of the 76 seats in the Senate.

Mr. Beazley, who has led his party for six years, conceded defeat and withdrew
from the leadership, saying, "We fought in the adverse circumstances of the fog
of war."

The re-election of the Howard government will consolidate Australia's cordial
official links with the United States. "All of us are deeply conscious of the
changes that have come over the world and therefore over our nation since the
terrible events in the United States of Sept. 11," Mr. Howard said.

Labor's promises for modest improvements in health, education, tax and welfare
programs were not enough to oust a government that oversaw six years of general
economic progress.

A clear majority of the 12 million voters approved of Mr. Howard's prompt
commitment of a 1,500-strong Australian force to support the American war effort
in Afghanistan and also of his recent refusal to grant asylum to nearly 2,000
refugees from Muslim countries.

Elected to Parliament in 1972, Mr. Howard is the fourth Australian prime
minister to win a third term.He is perceived as being more conservative than
many of his colleagues on issues like reconciliation with the Aborigines, the
indigenous black minority, and the nation's evolution to a republic, severing
ceremonial ties to the British monarchy.

His foreign policy priority will be to improve relations with neighboring
Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, which has been accused of
tolerating smugglers that ferry Muslim refugees and economic migrants into
Australian waters.

Throughout the five-week election campaign, reports of the 2,000 asylum seekers
on about a dozen boats that were turned back by the navy or shipped to detention
camps, received extensive coverage, reinforcing the government's emphasis on
border protection and overshadowing Labor's focus on social reforms.

The Labor Party held a slim advantage in opinion polls until August when Mr.
Howard's rating surged by 15 percentage points after he refused entry to the
asylum seekers. Most were refugees from Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and other Muslim
countries seeking asylum in Australia.

Australia grants only three-year "temporary protection" visas to unauthorized
arrivals deemed to be genuine refugees but gives full rights to about 12,000
United Nations-authorized refugees each year.

About 1,200 candidates from three mainstream parties and three minor groups,
including environmentalist and watchdog activists, sought election to the House
of Representatives where the government had held a seven-seat margin since
re-election in 1998.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 11, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: CIVIL RIGHTS;
Harsh Civics Lesson for Immigrants

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES;  Articles in this series are reporting on places
around the country as they adapt to life after the terror attacks and to the
onset of war.

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: EVANSVILLE, Ind., Nov. 7


The startling new lesson about this country for the immigrant owner, accountant,
maitre d' and busboy at the Crazy Tomato restaurant was forced upon them a month
ago in a incident known as the perp walk.

This was the photo arranged by law-enforcement officials that saw the four
Islamic restaurant workers and five Islamic friends paraded in prison stripes,
leg irons and manacles across the front page of the hometown newspaper.

The preceding court hearing had been tightly closed to public view, with the
windows taped and a gag order invoked against ever discussing it. So the perp,
as in perpetrator, walk would have to do for anyone curious about the innocence
or guilt of the nine caught in the terrorist dragnet.

"I am so happy to come back to my real life," declared Khaled Nassr, exultant
tonight at surviving the perp walk and standing fetter-free once more as maitre
d' at the Crazy Tomato.

"All I want to do is make a better future," said Mr. Nassr, more interested in
discussing the veal parmigiano than Osama bin Laden.

But diners kept apologetically chatting to him about the experience of the
Egyptian newcomers in this American community who, while never charged with
crimes, were taken off in chains for a week.

It turned out that the roundup had apparently been brought about by a lovers'
falling out in which a woman tipped the police that one of the nine had talked
threateningly of suicide.

As they were led off, the detainees thought it was a mistake soon to be
rectified. But then they were flown to Chicago for questioning in another show
of Swat-team force that they found terrifying for the weapons being brandished.

"This is becoming very dangerous," cautioned one of them, Tarek Albasti, 29, a
naturalized American. He is respected here as a classic go-getter who worked his
way up from busboy to owner of the Crazy Tomato since marrying his American
sweetheart eight years ago.

In tight custody in Chicago, Mr. Albasti found his uncle, Adel Khalil, 46, the
restaurant accountant, actually fearing summary execution when they were ordered
to change from black-and-white prison stripes to solid orange coveralls.

"Talk to me! I'm an American citizen!" Mr. Albasti told of shouting while
pounding on his cell door and waiting four days to see his lawyer.

As in other such tales across the nation, Mr. Albasti's friends and neighbors
pitched in, reopening the Crazy Tomato with a business executive and a lawyer
waiting tables.

Jerry and Mary Frances Baugh, Mr. Albasti's father- and mother-in-law could
offer him no explanation of the government's behavior beyond the panic of a
nation under siege.

"This lawyer was feeling absolutely helpless," said Mr. Baugh, a former
president of the Evansville Bar Association and a veteran of the American
Foreign Service. He is furious that his son-in-law, in a week of questioning,
never saw the grand jury that supposedly summoned him or the habeas corpus
doctrine that supposedly protects him.

"A total sham, a reaching for shadows," said Mr. Baugh of methods the government
defends as a wartime necessity. "It has made me realize that when people want to
make political decisions and do so, that they don't care about the law, and the
law doesn't care about us."

Mrs. Baugh, a writer, is collecting bittersweet memorabilia for a book intended
some day for Tarek and Carolyn Albasti's 2-year-old daughter, Aya. The perp walk
clippings of Aya's father are prominently included along with scores of prayers
and apologies from his fellow Americans.

"Aya will need to know this story," said the grandmother, underlining government
secrecy as the aspect she finds most threatening as an American whose roots go
back to the Revolution.

"It says to me the authorities don't know what they're doing, and they're
ashamed of what they're doing," Mrs. Baugh maintained. "And if they're not
ashamed, they should be. The attorney general can come and see me if he doesn't
like what I said."

Mrs. Baugh dropped by the Crazy Tomato tonight with a gift that cheered up Mr.
Nassr, a snazzy American-flag necktie.

"If this happened even in Egypt, authorities would do the same, and so I excuse
them," Mr. Nassr declared as diners sympathized.

Mrs. Baugh found his forgiving spirit understandable since, she said, the F.B.I.
cryptically told the detainees, when they were released as unexpectedly as they
had been arrested, that the investigation was "ongoing."

"What? Are they coming back to look under the lasagna pans?" she asked as Mr.
Nassr gingerly worked in freedom at the Crazy Tomato.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: AN AMERICAN JOURNAL -- EVANSVILLE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Khaled Nassr, maitre d' of the Crazy Tomato restaurant in
Evansville, Ind., was picked up a month ago in the terrorist dragnet after Sept.
11. (Jessica Brandi Lifland for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 12, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE STUDENTS;
U.S. Has Covered 200 Campuses To Check Up on Mideast Students

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words


In the two months since the attacks of Sept. 11, federal investigators have
contacted administrators on more than 200 college campuses to collect
information about students from Middle Eastern countries, the most sweeping
canvass of the halls of academia since the cold war, the colleges say.

The agents have asked what subjects the students are studying, whether they are
performing well and where they are living.

They have also questioned the students themselves, asking about their views on
Osama bin Laden, the names of their favorite restaurants and their plans for
after graduation.

The investigations have put the universities in a difficult position, pitting
the government's interest in security against the institutions' desire to
protect students' privacy and to avoid engaging in racial profiling.

But in the end, a national survey of college registrars found, nearly all the
universities approached have readily supplied answers to the government's
questions, largely because the law appears to be on the government's side.

The agents, from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, have used those conversations as the basis for
interviewing dozens of students.

One Saudi Arabian student, who attends the University of Colorado at Denver,
said federal investigators closed their interview with him by saying, "Expect to
see us again."

The college officials who have been sought out -- including those at Columbia
University, Tufts University and San Diego State University -- said that the
often unannounced visits and the urgent lines of inquiry were throwbacks to a
decade or more ago, when it was not uncommon for a federal agent to ask a dean a
question like "Did Vladimir show up at the lab today?"

Larry Bell, director of international education at the University of Colorado in
Denver, said that federal agents had visited his office or the registrar's
office five times in recent weeks.

Mr. Bell said that the agents had interviewed at least 50 students from Saudi
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and other Arab countries. He said he did
not believe any had been arrested or linked to a terrorist cell.

"The students are not sure what the purpose of the questions are," Mr. Bell
said. "But they know that the government isn't interviewing any students from
Germany."

Mindful that a terrorist with a student visa participated in the Sept. 11
attacks, the federal agencies said they were seeking to mine further leads and
to begin making good on the president's promise to ensure that the half-million
foreign students studying here were accounted for on their campuses.

"One of the reasons they want to know where a student lives is so that they can
come find them when necessary or simply watch them," said Catheryn Cotten,
director of the international student office at Duke University, who has yet to
receive such a visit but has been in contact with many colleges that have. "It's
not that they want to arrest the students. They want to keep track of them
coming and going."

Still, the sudden appearance of agents in college buildings and the government's
plans to expand such surveillance have heightened the anxiety on campuses
already jittery because of the terrorist attacks and the anthrax scares.

"It's just very hard to squeal on your own students," said James O. Freedman, a
former president of Dartmouth College. "You don't want students to get the
perception that you are in league with those who may be out to get them."

The Saudi student in Colorado, who asked not to be identified, said that two
agents from the F.B.I. and another from the I.N.S. arrived at his apartment
unannounced on a Wednesday evening about a month ago.

The agents said they had gotten his name from two other Saudi students who had
been briefly detained after they had been observed taking photographs of the
university's sports arena. The photographs were for a photography class, Mr.
Bell said.

In his interview with the authorities, the student, a 26-year-old landscape
architecture major, said he was asked about his classes, activities and
politics. "I was afraid," he said. "I know they can do anything they want to
you."

Still, he understood the situation.  "I don't blame them," he said. "Thousands
of innocent people were killed in a few seconds and a few hours."

In a survey by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions
Officers, 220 colleges reported that they had been contacted at least once by
the F.B.I. or the I.N.S. after Sept. 11 about the status of foreign students.
Nearly a quarter of those institutions reported multiple contacts.

A federal immigration official, who insisted on anonymity, said that the
colleges had been identified in the belief that foreign students there might
have information that would assist the government's inquiry.

"These visits are a component of an ongoing criminal investigation," the
official said.

Under federal immigration law, the government is entitled to much of the
information it has sought. As a condition of most education visas, a foreign
student signs a waiver permitting a college to let immigration officials know
when the student arrived on campus, how many credits the student had earned and
whether the student's field of study or mailing address had changed.

Though college administrators are required to collect such information, they
said that the government asked them to stop sending it to Washington years ago,
in part because the I.N.S. could not scale the mountain of paperwork.

But in the weeks since Sept. 11, federal officials have been aggressively
gathering such records and more. The colleges comply for financial and legal
reasons. By alienating the government, a school could risk losing its authority
to request visas for foreign students, most of whom pay full tuition.

There is a long tradition of law enforcement watching over college campuses in
times of crisis. But Sol Gittleman, provost of Tufts University and a professor
there for nearly 40 years, said he could not recall when outside agencies had
descended on so many campuses so quickly. "Unprecedented," Mr. Gittleman said.
"We've never had a national emergency like this."

The scrutiny of students of Arab descent has so far touched off little protest,
a stark contrast to the outrage when American-born students have been profiled
by university or law enforcement officials. In 1992, the campus of the State
University of New York College at Oneonta was riven for weeks after the college
provided the state police with a list of every black and Hispanic student in an
investigation of an assault on an elderly woman.

In the current investigation, federal agents have contacted Columbia University
two or three times and interviewed at least one foreign student, said Virgil
Renzulli, a spokesman for the school. Mr. Renzulli said he did not believe that
the student was arrested.

At San Diego State University, the government has sought information about many
of the 60 students from the Middle East because, university officials said, two
of the hijackers lived in San Diego and had ties to the Muslim community.

University officials said that the authorities later arrested one San Diego
State student and transported him to New York, where he was being held as a
material witness.

But the investigation on the San Diego campus continues. On Wednesday,
immigration officials delivered a written request to the university seeking
information about the locations and studies of 40 students from Arab nations, a
request that the university intends to honor.

"It's upsetting," said Jane Kalionzes, associate director of the international
student center. "Even though we've always known that reporting is a part of our
job, we haven't done it in so long."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Bell, director of international education at the
University of Colorado, with a Saudi student who was questioned by federal
investigators. Mr. Bell said that agents had interviewed at least 50 students
from Arab countries but that he did not believe any had been linked to a
terrorist cell. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 14, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
BUSH SETS OPTION OF MILITARY TRIALS IN TERRORIST CASES

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13


President Bush signed an order today allowing special military tribunals to try
foreigners charged with terrorism. A senior administration official said that
any such trials would "not necessarily" be public and that the American
tribunals might operate in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

At the same time, the Justice Department has asked law enforcement authorities
across the country to pick up and question 5,000 men, most from Middle Eastern
countries, who entered the country legally in the last two years.

Both actions are part of a sweeping government effort to expand the
investigation into Al Qaeda's network and clear the way for the more aggressive
prosecution of anyone charged with terrorism.

Mr. Bush signed the order allowing for the military tribunals shortly before
leaving this afternoon for his ranch in Crawford, Tex. White House officials
said the order did not create a military tribunal or a list of terrorists to be
tried. Instead, they said, it was an "option" that the president would have
should Osama bin Laden or his associates in Al Qaeda be captured. If the
tribunals were created, it would be the first time since World War II that such
an approach was used, officials said.

Under the order, the president himself is to determine who is an accused
terrorist and therefore subject to trial by the tribunal. The order states that
the president may "determine from time to time in writing that there is reason
to believe" that an individual is a member of Al Qaeda, has engaged in acts of
international terrorism or has "knowingly harbored" a terrorist.

In order to make such a finding, the president needs information, and obtaining
information about Al Qaeda and the Sept. 11 terrorist acts is the goal of the
Justice Department's effort to find and interview the 5,000 men, department
officials said.

The people being sought are not believed to be terrorism suspects, and they will
not be placed under arrest, the officials said. The interviews are intended to
be voluntary.

Nonetheless, officials at the American Civil Liberties Union condemned the
Justice Department effort, as well as the executive order allowing military
tribunals.

Steven Shapiro, the national legal director of the A.C.L.U., called the effort
to interview the 5,000 men a "dragnet approach that is likely to magnify
concerns of racial and ethnic profiling."

Laura W. Murphy, the director of the A.C.L.U. Washington National Office,
described the order regarding tribunals as "deeply disturbing and further
evidence that the administration is totally unwilling to abide by the checks and
balances that are so central to our democracy."

White House officials said the tribunals were necessary to protect potential
American jurors from the danger of passing judgment on accused terrorists. They
also said the tribunals would prevent the disclosure of government intelligence
methods, which normally would be public in civilian courts.

"We have looked at this war very unconventionally," said Dan Bartlett, the White
House communications director, "and the conventional way of bringing people to
justice doesn't apply to these times."

The idea of using tribunals has been suggested by some lawyers outside the
government as well.

"It's the most pragmatic way and it's the most legally correct way to adjudicate
terrorist war crimes," said Spencer J. Crona, a Denver probate lawyer and the
co-author of a 1996 article in the Oklahoma City University Law Journal arguing
the merits of military tribunals to try terrorists.

Mr. Crona and his co-author, Neal A. Richardson, a deputy district attorney in
Denver, have continued to promote the idea, most recently in an opinion article
in September in The Los Angeles Times. Mr. Crona added that terrorists are not
"mere criminals" but enemy agents engaged in war crimes against Americans.

But experts in military law said the tribunals would severely limit the rights
of any defendant even beyond those in military trials. The tribunals, they said,
did not provide for proof of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and would not
require strict rules of evidence like those in military and civilian courts.

"The accused in such a court would have dramatically fewer rights than a person
would in a court-martial," said Eugene R. Fidell, the president of the National
Institute of Military Justice.

Mr. Fidell said he expected the order to be challenged in court, adding, "It
establishes a court that departs in important respects from core aspects of
American criminal justice."

Mindy Tucker, the Justice Department spokeswoman, said tribunals would not
"preclude any Justice Department options" but would be an "additional tool."

"These are obviously extraordinary times and the president needs to have as many
options as possible," Ms. Tucker said.

In signing the military order, a highly unusual act by a president, Mr. Bush
invoked his constitutional authority as commander in chief as well as the
resolution authorizing military force passed by Congress on Sept. 15. Congress
has not passed a formal declaration of war, and military law experts said one
was not necessary for Mr. Bush's order.

White House officials said that there was precedent for the military tribunals
and that they had been approved by the Supreme Court, first in 1801. Those
accused of plotting the assassination of Abraham Lincoln were also tried and
convicted by a military court, Bush administration officials said.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt, White House officials said, had German
saboteurs tried by a military court in World War II; six of them were executed.
The Supreme Court upheld the proceeding, saying that people who entered the
United States to wage war were combatants who could be tried in a military
court.

"What would you do if you caught bin Laden?" one administration official said
tonight. "This is an additional option that is being provided by this order."

Administration officials said a long, public trial might turn Mr. bin Laden into
a martyr, and could cause further terrorism in his name.

The names of the 5,000 people that the Justice Department wants to interview
were compiled from immigration and State Department records of people who
entered the United States since Jan. 1, 2000, on tourist, student or business
visas. Only men aged 18 to 33 with these visas who are living in the United
States are on the list.

The names of the countries whose citizens have been placed on the list were not
made public, but most are Middle Eastern nations thought to have harbored
followers of Mr. bin Laden or to have been used by Al Qaeda as a staging base
for activities in the United States.

Ms. Tucker, the Justice Department spokeswoman, said she hoped some of the men
would help the government thwart further attacks.

The Council on American-Islamic Relations, an Islamic advocacy group based in
Washington, expressed concern about the plan and said the government should
publish guidelines for these interviews, including the right of those being
interviewed to have legal representation.

"This type of sweeping investigation carries with it the potential to create the
impression that interviewees are being singled out because of their race,
ethnicity or religion," said Nihad Awad, the group's executive director.

On Capitol Hill, the issue of who is entering the country illegally was in the
forefront today, with senators sharply questioning a senior official of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service who acknowledged that immigration agents
were not required to conduct criminal background checks on immigrants caught
crossing the border illegally.

The official, Michael A. Pearson, the executive associate commissioner for field
operations, said agents could use their discretion as to whether such a person
should be detained or let go pending further action.

Mr. Pearson said that 12,338 undocumented immigrants were arrested for illegal
entry along the nation's northern border in the last fiscal year, and that
two-thirds of them agreed to return voluntarily to their home countries. But he
was not able to account for the 4,400 people who did not choose to return home
voluntarily.

Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the Senate's permanent
subcommittee on investigations, responded, "I find that disturbing, to put it
mildly."

Questioned by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, Mr. Pearson said it
was true that the I.N.S. had no ability to verify that illegal immigrants who
were let go but told to leave the country actually did leave.

Ms. Collins replied, "If there's no system for checking if the individual has
actually left in the 30 days as promised, isn't it likely they are not leaving?"

Mr. Pearson said, "That could certainly be the case."

A CLOSER LOOK
Expansion of Antiterrorism Efforts

President Bush's executive order regarding the trial of noncitizens for
terrorist acts is only the latest action by the government to expand law
enforcement activities in fighting terrorism. These are the other measures:

VISAS The State Department said last week it would slow down the process for
granting visas to young men from Arab and Muslim nations.

LAWYERS The Justice Department said last week it would allow the authorities to
monitor conversations between some people in federal custody and their lawyers.

DETENTION Under legislation passed by Congress last month, people held on the
suspicion of being involved in terrorism can be held for up to seven days for
questioning, after which they must be released if they are not charged with
violations of the criminal or immigration codes.

WIRETAPS Law enforcement officials may now obtain from the special intelligence
court the authority for roving wiretaps on a person suspected of involvement in
terrorism so that any telephone used by that person may be monitored.
Previously, officials needed separate authorizations for each phone used by the
person.

WARRANTS Federal officials are now able to obtain nationwide search warrants for
terrorism investigations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 14, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRENDS;
Immigrant Muslim Workers: Few Drive Taxis, Many Are Managers

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 216 words


Ask someone living in New York City what most Arab and Muslim immigrants do for
a living and the first reply is likely to be: Taxi driver.

But, according to data compiled from the 1996-2001 current population surveys by
the sociology department of Queens College, only 28,000, or 5 percent, of the
almost 600,000 foreign-born Muslims in the labor force earn a living by driving
a vehicle.

The No. 1 occupation among that immigrant group is executive or manager of a
business.

Foreign-born Muslim workers are, in general, better educated and earn more than
the average worker. Just over 30 percent of the entire labor force aged 25 and
over has a college or advanced degree compared to more than 57 percent of Muslim
workers.

While the household income of 25 percent of Muslim workers is $29,000 or less,
compared to the United States average of $31,000, the income of half of Muslim
workers is at least $60,000, compared to $53,000 for all American workers. And
25 percent of Muslim workers have household incomes of more than $94,000,
compared to $85,000 for the population as a whole.

The majority of foreign-born Muslims appear to be committed to staying in the
United States. Almost 57 percent are now citizens and more than 70 percent
arrived before the Gulf War.   DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: U.S. average -- $53,200 25th percentileForeign-born muslims* --
$28,912U.S. average -- $31,000 NUMBER OF FOREIGN-BORN MUSLIMS* IN THE LABOR
FORCE, BY OCCUPATIONExecutive, administrator, manager: 80,518Retail salespeople:
54,151Small-business owners, managers: 49,959Engineer, architect, surveyor:
42,499Motor-vehicle operator: 28,352Food preparer: 27,119Health diagnostician:
24,133 *People born in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi
Arabia, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Iran, Morocco, other countries of North Africa
and unspecified countries in the Middle East, though not Israel. *All figures
are for Muslims in the labor force who were born in Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan,
Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Morocco, other
countries of North Africa and unspecified countries in the Middle East. Figures
are based on current population survey data from 1996 through 2001.Chart:
EDUCATION COMPLETED BY FOREIGN-BORN MUSLIMS* IN THE LABOR FORCE Ph.D. or
professional degree -- 10.3%Master's degree -- 14.9%College degree -- 32.6%Less
than high school -- 7.0%High school graduate -- 17.4%Some college -- 17.8%
HOUSEHOLD INCOME75th percentileForeign-born muslims* -- $94,525U.S. average --
$84,460 50th percentileForeign-born muslims* -- $60,100U.S. average -- $53,200
25th percentileForeign-born muslims* -- $28,912U.S. average -- $31,000 NUMBER OF
FOREIGN-BORN MUSLIMS* IN THE LABOR FORCE, BY OCCUPATIONExecutive, administrator,
manager: 80,518Retail salespeople: 54,151Small-business owners, managers:
49,959Engineer, architect, surveyor: 42,499Motor-vehicle operator: 28,352Food
preparer: 27,119Health diagnostician: 24,133 *People born in Afghanistan,
Pakistan, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Iran,
Morocco, other countries of North Africa and unspecified countries in the Middle
East, though not Israel. *All figures are for Muslims in the labor force who
were born in Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia,
Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Morocco, other countries of North Africa and
unspecified countries in the Middle East. Figures are based on current
population survey data from 1996 through 2001.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 15, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENTIAL ORDER;
Senior Administration Officials Defend Military Tribunals for Terrorist Suspects

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and STEVEN LEE MYERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1095 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14


Top administration officials today defended a presidential order allowing
military tribunals to try foreigners charged with terrorism as the Pentagon
prepared for the potential transfer of immigrants detained by the Justice
Department into military custody.

A senior administration official said that it was possible that immigrants held
in the United States by the Justice Department in connection with the Sept. 11
attacks would be tried by military tribunal. Those trials could take place
outside the United States or even on ships, the official said.

The order, signed by President Bush on Tuesday, gives the government sweeping
powers to secretly and aggressively prosecute suspected foreign terrorists both
here and abroad.

Justice Department officials have repeatedly refused to disclose the identities
of those immigrants held or the charges against them. Justice officials said
late last month that the total number of people detained -- including many who
have since been released -- had surpassed 1,000, but this month officials said
that they would no longer release a running tally.

"I had no idea they were going to try to use it for domestically detained
people," said Kevin Ernst, a Detroit lawyer representing Farouk Ali-Hamoud, who
was arrested for fraudulent immigration documents and held for 25 days in the
Wayne County Jail before his case was dismissed last month. "It scares the hell
out of me, I'll tell you that."

Vice President Dick Cheney defended Mr. Bush's order today, saying that
terrorists were not lawful combatants and did not deserve the safeguards of
traditional American jurisprudence.

"The basic proposition here is that somebody who comes into the United States of
America illegally, who conducts a terrorist operation killing thousands of
innocent Americans -- men, women and children -- is not a lawful combatant," Mr.
Cheney said.

"They don't deserve to be treated as a prisoner of war," he added. "They don't
deserve the same guarantees and safeguards that would be used for an American
citizen going through the normal judicial process."

While the vice president assured his audience that the terrorist suspects would
have "a fair trial," he suggested that they did not deserve one with the same
protections afforded American citizens. A military tribunal, he said,
"guarantees that we'll have the kind of treatment of these individuals that we
believe they deserve."

He spoke favorably of World War II saboteurs being "executed in relatively rapid
order" under military tribunals set up by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. And
he cited an earlier precedent, noting, "This is the way we dealt with the people
who assassinated Abraham Lincoln and tried to assassinate part of the Cabinet
back in 1865." Mr. Cheney, who was responding to a question after a speech at
the United States Chamber of Commerce, was the most senior White House official
to explain the rationale behind the president's order. Mr. Bush, who was at his
ranch in Crawford, Tex., with President Vladimir Putin of Russia, has not spoken
publicly about it.

The order continued to prompt an outcry from civil libertarians, who noted that
military tribunals have not been used in this country since World War II. Laura
W. Murphy, the director of the American Civil Liberties Union's National Office,
said that the organization was "deeply disturbed" by the order and called on
Congress to exercise oversight powers before the "Bill of Rights in America is
distorted beyond recognition."

Bush administration officials said today that they first considered the idea of
military tribunals about a week after the Sept. 11 attacks. Officials said that
a debate then ensued between the Pentagon and Justice Department over who should
determine who is a suspected terrorist and therefore subject to trial by
tribunal.

Finally, officials said, it was Mr. Bush who insisted that he, not Secretary of
Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld or Attorney General John Ashcroft, be given that
power.

Administration officials said that the Pentagon and Justice Department were
preparing today for the possibility of moving some detainees to military
custody, examining such details as where the detainees might be held and how
many judges would sit on any tribunal.

"They are researching, preparing and looking at the administrative procedures
that would have to be followed to take into custody a suspected terrorist held
by justice," an administration official said.

The idea of military tribunals came to the attention of the White House via
William P. Barr, a former attorney general in the first Bush administration, who
first conceived of them as a way to try the two men charged with blowing up a
Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988.

In the preparations for that trial, Mr. Barr was the chief of the Justice
Department's office of legal counsel. In an odd twist, that office also happened
to occupy the same suite where the World War II saboteurs were secretly tried
under Roosevelt -- memorialized today by a plaque on the wall.

"It's part of the lore of that office," Mr. Barr said.

Scotland, which does not have the death penalty, was not interested in joining
with the United States in military tribunals, Mr. Barr said, so the idea was
dropped. But shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Barr contacted senior
officials at both the White House and the Justice Department, suggesting they
might take a look at the old files.

"All I did was remind them about it," Mr. Barr said. "The idea sells itself."

This time people were very interested, particularly as they faced the prospect
of what to do should Osama bin Laden or his associates in Al Qaeda be captured.
Administration officials have said they did not want a long, public American
trial of Mr. bin Laden that could turn him into a martyr or cause further
terrorism in his name.

In the weeks after Sept. 11, officials at the Pentagon and Justice and State
Departments worked on a draft of the president's order. Late last week,
officials said, the draft began circulating. On Tuesday, the president signed
it.

Experts in military law say the tribunals would severely limit the rights of a
defendant even beyond those in military trials, and said that the tribunals did
not provide for proof of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.

But White House officials said the tribunals were necessary to protect potential
American jurors from the danger of passing judgment on terrorists. They also
said the tribunals would prevent the disclosure of government intelligence
methods, which normally would be public in civilian courts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney today defended the order allowing
military tribunals, assuring that terrorist suspects would receive fair trials.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 15, 2001 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: OKLAHOMA DETAINEE;
Hearing for Pakistani Student

BYLINE:   By JO THOMAS

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 303 words


The president of the Pakistan Student Association at the University of Oklahoma
in Norman will face immigration charges today at a hearing in Oklahoma City,
according to documents filed for the hearing.

Neighbors said the student leader, Mohammad Yaseen Haider, 22, was detained on
Nov. 8 at the Kraettli Apartments.

Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service declined to say what
charges Mr. Haider would face, and university officials said they had no
information. Gary Johnson, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation
in Oklahoma City, would not comment on the investigation.

Mr. Haider, a junior majoring in electrical engineering, was a neighbor of
Hussein al-Attas and Mukkaram Ali, two former University of Oklahoma students
who are in custody for questioning in the investigation into the World Trade
Center attacks. The authorities want to know what Mr.  Attas and Mr. Ali can
tell them about Zacarias Moussaoui, who was arrested last August on immigration
charges and is the man the authorities suspect was meant to be the 20th suicide
hijacker. Mr. Attas once roomed with Mr. Moussaoui in Norman.

Mr. Haider came to public attention shortly after the Sept. 11 attack, when he
complained to the Norman police and university officials that three men had
assaulted him, shouting racial slurs, in the parking lot of a convenience store
where he was working on Sept. 16.

He said the men, two of whom were students, kicked and punched him after he
refused to sell them beer because it was after 2 a.m. One of the student
attackers was expelled, said Jeffrey W. Hickman, press secretary to David L.
Boron, the university president. The other was subject to disciplinary
proceedings.

Some time afterward, the Norman police said, F.B.I. agents requested copies of
Mr. Haider's complaint.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 16, 2001



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about immigration charges against Mohammad
Yaseen Haider, president of the Pakistan Student Association at the University
of Oklahoma, misspelled the surname of the university president, whose press
secretary provided details about an assault on Mr. Haider. He is David L. Boren,
not Boron.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 16, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Steps of Central Asia

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 27 words


In Queens, immigrant Bukharan Jews celebrate in big ways, like the dancing at La
France restaurant in Forest Hills, above.

An article by Sandee Brawarsky, Page 39.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Alan Chin for The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 19, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Top Democrats Politick Through Rural Mexico

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: PUEBLA, Mexico, Nov. 18


Thousands of miles away from their own constituents, the two top Democrats from
the United States took a morning ride today through a rural stretch of central
Mexico that had all the trappings of a campaign.

Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader from South Dakota, and Representative
Richard A. Gephardt, the minority leader from Missouri, visited villages in
Puebla State that are connected to the United States by the blood and money of
immigrants. They stopped at an elementary school where teachers complained about
soaring dropout rates as children move with their families to the United States.
They toured a women's cooperative that produces canned kumquats and peach wine,
led mostly by wives left behind by their husbands. They gushed over the work of
local artisans and tasted homemade candies.

Although they never asked for votes here, Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt made a
series of stunning promises.

"We want to ensure that that those people who have come from Puebla to the
Northeast and want to stay in the United States as citizens can do so," Mr.
Daschle said, to loud applause from the crowd.

Mr. Gephardt offered economic assistance to help develop more jobs for Mexicans
who resist the lure of the United States and stay in their homeland.

"The United States and Mexico are best friends," he said, "and we always will
be."

The visit to Puebla by Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt came at the end of an
official visit, which the legislators said was intended to re-energize talks
between the United States and Mexico on immigration reform. Talks between
high-level members of the Mexican government and the Bush administration are
scheduled to begin again on Tuesday for the first time since the Sept. 11
attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

President Vicente Fox of Mexico, advocating the freer flow of goods and people
across the 2,000-mile border, had pushed the United States to adopt a series of
immigration changes by the end of this year, including the legalization of about
three million undocumented Mexicans working in the United States and the
expansion of guest-worker programs. President Bush had promised to work toward
that goal. But then the terrorist assaults on New York and Washington threw the
talks into uncertainty.

Mr. Bush has said that he remains committed to negotiations with Mexico and
Congress on changing immigration rules. However, Republicans are divided over
the principal initiatives, especially programs that would legalize undocumented
immigrants.

Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt's appearance in Mexico over the weekend seemed
intended to demonstrate the Democrats' support for Mexico's proposals. Some
political analysts pointed out that the visit was part of an effort by the
Democrats to build support among the growing population of Latino voters in the
United States.

"We wanted to make as strong a statement as we could that our mutual agenda has
not been lost in the aftermath of the disaster of Sept. 11," Mr. Daschle said.
"Our agenda regarding our mutual relationship is every bit as important, and our
commitment every bit as strong."

Mr. Gephardt and Mr. Daschle said they came to Puebla, which has a population of
about six million, to get a first-hand lesson on immigration. Even though it is
a state with a large number of foreign-owned assembly plants, close to one
million people from Puebla, called Poblanos, have abandoned Mexico since the
1970's and settled in a stretch from New York to Virginia. About 300,000
Poblanos live in the New York metropolitan area. The immigrants, who typically
earn more in an hour than workers in Mexico earn in a day, send an estimated
$800 million a year back to the state.

"We are not trying to inadvertently encourage more people to migrate by talking
about a regularization," Mr. Daschle said. "That is why we are also talking
about ways to create jobs here. People want to stay home. They want to stay
united with their families."

Although they were touring farming villages in Puebla, there were moments when
the legislators could not have felt closer to home among families whose
struggles after the terrorist assaults echo the turmoil and defiance felt north
of the border.

The politicians were followed by crowds waving star-spangled banners. Men
wearing Yankees caps and jerseys played baseball in dirt lots under brilliant
skies. Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt fielded questions about unemployment in the
United States.

At the end of their visit, they met with four families whose relatives were
killed in the attacks on the World Trade Center. Mr. Daschle said he was unable
to answer one mother who asked him whether "any piece of her son would ever be
recovered."

Listening in, Mr. Gephardt said, "I was moved to tears."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Richard A. Gephardt, left, Linda Daschle and
Senator Tom Daschle, with schoolchildren in Puebla State yesterday. (Henry
Romero/Reuters) Map of Mexico highlighting Puebla: Puebla State has a population
of about six million people.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 21, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Queens: Ex-I.N.S. Inspector Charged with Fraud

BYLINE:  By Thomas J. Lueck (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 168 words


A former immigration inspector, who had already served time in jail for
extortion, was arrested in Queens yesterday on charges that he swindled Chinese
immigrants out of more than $575,000 by promising work visas for their relatives
and friends in China. Federal agents arrested the man, Tin Yat Chin, who had
been fired from his job with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in 1993,
early yesterday morning at his home in Flushing.

He was ordered held without bail at a court appearance before Magistrate Judge
Robert M. Levy of Federal District Court. Mr. Chin, 43, was charged with an
elaborate ruse in which federal agents said he falsely claimed to be an I.N.S.
lawyer with experience on the staff of the United States consulate in China.
Operating out of an office in Bay Ridge, he collected cash payments on the
promise of visas and jobs for people in China, according to the complaint filed
yesterday. Mr. Chin's lawyer did not respond to a phone message yesterday.
Thomas J. Lueck(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 21, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Denmark Shifts to Right in Election Centering on Immigration

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN, Nov. 20


Danish voters concerned that immigrants are exploiting the welfare system
shifted to the right in parliamentary voting today, handing the Liberal
Party-led opposition a big victory over the Social Democrats.

With 98.4 percent of the vote counted, the Liberal Party and its supporters,
including the anti-immigration Danish People's Party, had 98 seats in the
179-seat Parliament, well above the 90 needed for a majority.

The ruling Social Democrats and their parliamentary supporters won just 77
seats, down from 89 in the last Parliament.

"It has been a historic day," said the Liberal Party leader, Anders Fogh
Rasmussen, widely expected to be chosen the next prime minister. If given the
opportunity, he said, "I'll be prime minister for the whole population."

Denmark's four million voters chose from 984 candidates in 10 parties for
four-year parliamentary terms in the Folketing, or Parliament. For the first
time, elections were held for county and municipal officials on the same day as
the national vote.

The Social Democratic prime minister, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, 58, who has led the
country since 1993, set the date for the quadrennial elections late last month.
His popularity soared with his strong support for the American-led fight against
terrorism, only to fall as the immigration debate exposed ruling party
divisions. The two candidates are not related.

"The country we are now handing over to a right-leaning government is a
well-functioning country," said Mr. Nyrup Rasmussen, who will remain in a
caretaker role until a new government is formed within days. "We will be a fair
and consistent opposition."

The more charismatic Mr. Fogh Rasmussen, 48, has played down criticism of
xenophobia but pledged to crack down on foreigners trying to cheat the system.

"Denmark must not be the social security office for the rest of the world," he
said during the three-week campaign.

It was the first time since 1920 that the Liberals, with 56 projected seats in
contrast to the 42 seats they won in 1998, had surpassed the Social Democrats,
who dropped from 63 seats to 53.

Many voters said they had been looking for a government change as they cast
their ballots today. "Nyrup seems burned out and doesn't seem trustworthy
anymore," said Stig Lassen, a 41-year-old businessman.

The parties are largely in agreement on major issues, including a need to
improve education, health care, care for the elderly and the economy. Denmark
has an unemployment rate of 5 percent.

The main issue in the campaign -- family reunification for immigrants, which has
long simmered in the mainly Lutheran country -- was heightened by the attacks on
New York and Washington. Critics also say the law provides a way for foreigners
living here to bring in spouses and children and take advantage of generous
benefits.

The prosperous Scandinavian nation of 5.3 million people halted open immigration
in 1973 but still allows relatives of immigrants and political asylum seekers to
enter.

Both Social Democrats and Liberals have promised to tighten the immigration law.
But while the ruling party wants to study the issue, the Liberals are calling
for faster measures, including a seven-year waiting period before new arrivals
would be able to tap into the country's cradle-to-grave welfare system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Danish Vote, Anxiety Over the Rightists

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN, Nov. 21


A big swing to the right in Denmark's election on Tuesday has caused concern
that the new center-right government may become a hostage to strongly
anti-immigrant forces on the far right.

The Liberal Party, led by Anders Fogh Rasmussen, 48, eclipsed the Social
Democrats, led by the departing prime minister, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, in the
election for the first time since the 1920's. (The Rasmussens are not related.)

Prime Minister Rasmussen formally handed his resignation to Queen Margrethe
today.

But the next prime minister, though dealing a fresh blow to Scandinavia's
once-mighty Social Democrats, will have to depend on support from the
anti-immigration Danish People's Party for a parliamentary majority.

The People's Party leader, Pia Kjaersgaard, has exploited fears about Muslims
since the attacks on the United States on Sept. 11. She has urged far stricter
limits on immigration and once said she crossed the street to avoid meeting a
Muslim.

"It's clear I'm worried," said Goran Persson, Sweden's prime minister, a Social
Democrat. "We now see a center-right government which will be forced to prop
itself up with anti-foreigner ideas."

Mr. Fogh Rasmussen, a former economy minister in Denmark, promised stricter
immigration laws, a cap on taxation and improved hospitals. He rebuffed
expressions of concern from some fellow Liberals abroad. Immigrants in
Copenhagen are distressed.

"I often get called names when I go out on the town for a beer, and the ugly
remarks increased after Sept. 11," said Wallid el-Amrani, a 24-year-old student
from Jordan who said he might try to move to "a less hostile country."

"I fear things could get worse with this new government," said Zarah Ahmed, a
36-year-old shopkeeper from Syria who said immigrants had been made scapegoats
for the failings of Denmark's welfare system.

In Sweden, the daily newspaper Dagens Nyheter was blunt. "It is difficult to
point to any winner in the Danish election, but the losers are easier to
identify," it said. "They are all those with dark skin, humanism and decency.
Goodnight Denmark."

The amount of Danish aid to developing nations is the largest in the world as a
percentage of gross domestic product, and for the first time, two immigrants won
seats in parliament in Tuesday's election.

Fewer than 5 percent of Denmark's 5.3 million people are foreigners, a smaller
proportion than in many European countries.

Danish newspapers welcomed the landslide upset of the Social Democrats, saying
it showed that Danes were fed up after nine years under Mr. Nyrup Rasmussen, the
European Union's longest-serving prime minister. "It is clear that a basic
desire for change played a role," Politiken said.

Mr. Fogh Rasmussen's center-right bloc won 98 seats in Parliament, against 77
for Mr. Nyrup Rasmussen's bloc.

Mr. Fogh Rasmussen's Liberals have 56 seats and are likely to form a minority
coalition with the 16 seats of the Conservatives and the 4 of the Christian
People's Party.

It will depend on informal support from the 22 members of the Danish People's
Party, but Mr. Fogh Rasmussen has ruled out giving them seats in his cabinet.
Thus Denmark will not swing as far right as Austria, where the Freedom Party of
Jorg Haider has seats in government.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 23, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: UNEASINESS IN AMERICA;
Some Mideast Immigrants, Shaken, Ponder Leaving U. S.

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: GARDEN GROVE, Calif., Nov. 21


Not once in the 33 years he has lived here has Haitham Bundakji thought about
leaving. Even when he slept on floors, with a jacket for a blanket and a towel
wrapped around his shoes for a pillow, he always considered America to be home.

It is hard to find a more established man amid the manicured suburbs of Orange
County. Personal notes from the mayor appear in his mail. His car is a
repository of plaques and civic awards. And when he is not tending to his many
properties, Mr. Bundakji is often working as the Muslim chaplain for the local
police and sheriff departments, which consider him one of their own.

And yet, when the Federal Bureau of Investigation started questioning 5,000
young men from the Middle East in this country on student, tourist and business
visas, Mr. Bundakji decided it might be time for him to leave.

"I don't want to live in a police state," said Mr. Bundakji, 53, a native of
Jordan. "Most of us ran away from undemocratic regimes in the Middle East. Now
we are facing it here."

Convinced that their community has been singled out for scrutiny by law
enforcement and still wary of reprisals by vigilantes, many Muslim and Middle
Eastern residents of Southern California say some of their friends and family
members have left the United States, leading them to wonder whether they should
follow.

"We planned to live here forever," said Sara Bavawi, an American citizen from
Jordan who has lived here for seven years and whose cousin and four friends
returned to the Middle East this month. "But now I think we go back home, too."

Unlike the scores of foreign students who have abandoned college campuses around
the country at the urging of their families, many of the residents who have left
or are contemplating doing so have been here for a decade or more, often with
American-born children who speak only English and have never visited their
parents' homelands.

Others are citizens with their own businesses and homes. Yet they say their
anxiety has become so acute that they would rather start over somewhere else
than live in fear of being detained by federal authorities and, perhaps even
more unnerving, becoming the target of hate crimes.

"They have begun selling their businesses, their property, packing up to leave,"
said Bassam Mahdawi, managing editor of Al-Watan, an Arabic newspaper in
Anaheim.

It is impossible to arrive at hard figures for how many immigrants have begun
leaving, either in Southern California or across the country.

Confident that the crisis will subside, Mr. Mahdawi said he had tried to
dissuade friends who had moved back to the Middle East. But his arguments are
muted at times, he says, since other friends have been detained by federal
agents, leading him to think about leaving as well.

"Every family is talking about it," Mr. Mahdawi said. "Some are serious, some
take action and some just talk."

Though hardly noticable to those outside the shy and tight-knit Muslim
community, the families that have left are numerous enough to be missed at
weddings and weekly prayer services. Goodbye parties for the departing bring
word of others who have left with the hope that they will come back in a few
years, when things settle down.

Some families leave because the husband has recently lost his job, while others
have thriving businesses that they plan to keep going somehow from overseas.

The idea of an exodus, however small, upsets some elected officials. When a new
mosque opened in Garden Grove this month, no fewer than four city council
members showed up in freshly pressed suits, along with the mayor and much of his
staff, displaying a level of support and welcome that would make even
nonimmigrants envious.

"We try to allay their concerns, but there's a certain amount of people you're
never going to convince," said Mayor Bruce A. Broadwater. "I think that people
who already wanted to leave will use the current situation as an excuse."

Indeed, even before Sept. 11, some Muslim immigrants in California would often
wring their hands about the drugs and crime they encountered here, and loudly
reminisce about the sense of belonging they could find only in the Middle East.

And for all those who say they want to leave, there is at least an equal number
of families who proclaim that they have never been more determined to remain in
the United States. After all, they argue, where else are the economic
opportunities so promising and, even in a time of abridged civil liberties, the
freedoms so plentiful?

"We're here to stay," said Ahmed Ali, president of the Council of Pakistan
American Affairs. "People who say they are going back, they don't know their
country anymore. Maybe they are forgetting parts of it."

After so many years in the United States, even those who wish to leave
acknowledge that reorienting to life in the Middle East would be difficult.
Beyond a likely drop in living standards, there is also the potential discomfort
of complying with cultural practices that they have not had to heed since their
youth.

"If I go back to Syria, I'm going to be a foreigner there," said Mohamad Nezar
Tibi, now an American citizen.

Still, Mr. Tibi, a software engineer who has been here since 1985, says he never
felt unsafe in Syria, as he does now in the quiet enclaves of Corona. Two months
ago, an acquaintance of his was murdered in what appears to be a hate crime.

"It feels like I'm left with no other option right now but to leave," said Mr.
Tibi. "What else can I do to protect my family?"

How much of the danger is real or imagined is hard to determine. Yet many of the
residents who talk about fleeing the United States come from countries like
Lebanon and Israel, where safety is hardly a given.

And though federal authorities have detained immigrants as part of their
investigation into the terrorist attacks, most appear to have been held on
outstanding criminal charges or visa violations, not at random.

Nonetheless, the refrain uttered by residents here is often the same: "I'm
scared to death," said Basma Vogelpohl, an Israeli Palestinian who has lived in
the United States for 11 years. "I don't want to stay in this country."

One Lebanese man said he was willing to forfeit the $15,000 deposit he put on a
new home before Sept. 11 in order to leave. "When it comes to safety," he said,
"you don't care about money."

As professionals and business owners, many Muslims here have the means to leave
and start over elsewhere. But whether their fears will translate into mass
exodus seems doubtful to many community leaders, unless the crisis continues
indefinitely.

"Most of us will continue to live in America until we get kicked out of it,"
said Samir Abdalla, editor of the Arab World, a weekly newspaper. "But the
problem is the feeling in the hearts of every single person: that he doesn't
know about tomorrow."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I'm scared to death," said Basma Vogelpohl, an
Israeli-Palestinian immigrant. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times)(pg. B1);
Mohamad Nezar Tibi, an American citizen from Syria, no longer feels safe and may
leave. "What else can I do to protect my family?" he said. (Gerard Burkhart for
The New York Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRANTS;
Afghans in U.S. Seek Role in Forming Homeland Government

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1491 words


They fled Afghanistan in waves over the last three decades, settling by the tens
of thousands in New York and surrounding cities and towns. They built two
mosques, started a school in Queens and bought hundreds of plots in cemeteries
on Long Island and in New Jersey to bury their dead. They had children, even
grandchildren, in the United States, and over the years some became American
citizens.

Still, many Afghan exiles and immigrants -- their loyalties and agendas as
varied and divisive as those roiling Afghanistan -- remained obsessed with
homeland politics and consumed by patriotism.

And so, as the Taliban were tumbling from power last Sunday, a few days after
the fall of Kabul, about 150 Afghan exiles and immigrants gathered for an
emergency meeting in an Afghan restaurant in Queens to cast a ballot and thus
perhaps lay claim to a role -- however modest -- in the future of Afghanistan.

It was a rather unusual election, with no legal teeth and no apparent precedent,
and it involved doctors and lawyers, rug dealers and kebab cart operators. But
in the Mustang Cafe in Fresh Meadows, people scribbled the names of candidates
on sheets of lined notebook paper and dropped them in ballot boxes with the idea
that they were selecting a group of Afghan-Americans who might act as advisers
to, or even members of, a new government in Kabul.

"Events are snowballing," said Dr. Bashir A. Zikria, a surgeon and professor at
Columbia University who organized the Queens meeting, one of three held at the
cafe since the United States began bombing Afghanistan on Oct. 7. "Any new
government has to have wide-based representation, and the people in exile and
others here, even if we were not carrying guns and fighting the Soviets or the
Taliban, are all involved in the liberation of Afghanistan."

With the situation in Afghanistan wildly uncertain, it is hard to know if any of
what took place in the Queens cafe, or in the other impromptu elections held in
Afghan enclaves around the country, will result in Afghans here having a
profound role in the future of their native country. And what that role could or
should be is the subject of much debate in diplomatic and academic circles and
among immigrants.

But many exiles and immigrants who have waited years for the window of
opportunity they now see opening are, with a kind of urgent optimism, certain
that they have something to offer.

The 10 delegates elected in Queens, along with delegates from Southern and
Northern California and Washington, D.C., will eventually form a national group
of 40 Afghan immigrants. The 40, to be formally known as the Electoral College
of Afghans in the United States, will meet in Washington and select candidates
to participate in a loya jirga, the Pashto term for grand assembly, in
Afghanistan, Dr. Zikria said.

One of the Southern California delegates, Hasan Nouri, a hydraulic engineer, was
elected two Sundays ago at a meeting of 300 people to try to play a role in
Afghanistan's future. Last Sunday, he and the others who were elected met in his
living room in Laguna Niguel to devise a strategy.

"There are hardly any people who can read and write in Afghanistan," Mr. Nouri
said. "In terms of rebuilding the country, we have a voice. And we can do
whatever we can to help them politically. But in terms of forming a government,
we do not have a voice. That really is for the people of Afghanistan."

The question of whether Afghans living outside their native country,
particularly those who have been away for decades, should help form a new
government is prickly.

State Department officials said they support the idea, although they did not
spell out how the Bush administration might facilitate such participation. One
of the delegates to the electoral college has already met with the
administration's senior adviser on Afghanistan.

For the moment, the central goal of the electoral college and the groups
connected to it is to recruit doctors, teachers, engineers and other
professionals living in America who could use their skills to rebuild
Afghanistan.

Dr. Zikria's group, the Afghan National Islamic Council of Immigrants in
America, which includes Afghans living in the Northeast, has already compiled a
list of more than 50 professionals, which he said was sent to the United
Nations. Members of Mr. Nouri's group, Afghan-Americans of Southern California,
as well as other Afghan immigrant groups across the country, are involved in a
similar process, tapping friends, colleagues and neighbors willing to lend
expertise from afar or in Afghanistan.

The United Nations special envoy to Afghanistan, Lakhdar Brahimi, said on
Thursday that Afghans in other countries should play a key role in talks about a
new government in Kabul. But he has not specified who among the six million
Afghans living abroad should participate, and so far United Nations officials
are focused on marshaling humanitarian rather than political assistance from
Afghans in the United States.

A United Nations spokeswoman, Marie Okabe, said it was too soon to define the
full role for Afghan immigrants in the United States. The first meeting of exile
groups and political parties, originally scheduled for Monday near Bonn, was
postponed yesterday by one day to give the participants more time to prepare,
the United Nations said.

But a United Nations official who is working on the Afghan situation and who
knows Dr. Zikria said the loya jirga, a traditional national assembly that dates
to 1709 and would be called upon to put a new government in place, was
"absolutely" open to Afghans in America.

According to one plan worked out several years ago in Rome and put forward by
the exiled Afghan king, Mohammad Zahir Shah, the national assembly would include
five or six representatives from the United States. The plan, which Dr. Zikria,
a distant cousin and supporter of the king, helped construct, is known as the
Rome Process.

Still, the Rome plan is only one proposal on the table. And some experts on
Afghanistan say that while technical assistance from Afghan immigrants is
desperately needed, expatriate political involvement -- particularly by those
who have been away for decades -- could be viewed suspiciously by those in the
country.

"Many of them have been gone so long," said Thomas W. Simons Jr., who teaches at
the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University.
"Almost all of them are carpetbaggers at this point. And they are going to be
accused of being somebody's client."

Mr. Simons, the United States ambassador to Pakistan from 1996 to 1998, added:
"A lot of the people here have ethnic and tribal ties. Sometimes they are more
savagely ideological than the people at home."

Thomas E. Gouttierre, one of the leading experts on Afghanistan in the United
States and a longtime friend of Dr. Zikria's, said, "This is expatriate politics
in some ways."

But Mr. Gouttierre, the director of the Center for Afghanistan Studies at the
University of Nebraska at Omaha, added: "There is a possibility it could be an
influential group. One should not underestimate the power of American
delegation."

The differences among the Afghan immigrants were evident at the Mustang Cafe
last Sunday. The group assembled to elect candidates included Afghan-Americans
born and raised in Queens; ethnic Pashtuns, the majority group in Afghanistan;
ethnic Tajiks, one of the minority groups; and supporters of the king, the
Northern Alliance and other political parties and regional leaders.

At several points throughout the day, tensions flared and voters stood up,
shouted and pointed to one another, accusing some people of voting twice and the
organizers of not providing enough ballots. But the conflicts were quelled and
the business of selecting six delegates -- four had been elected at another
meeting -- continued.

Seated side by side in the room were engineers, lawyers, doctors, Muslim
clerics, rug dealers, cabdrivers, bakers and kebab stand operators. As Muslims,
they were observing the holy month of Ramadan, which meant that there was no
food or drink until sundown. When the sun set, as the ballots were being
counted, a plate of dates and another of sugarcoated chickpeas was passed
around.

By early evening, all the delegates for the Northeast had been selected for the
electoral college -- six men and four women.

Among those elected was Rahima Barbury, a doctor who fled Afghanistan in 1983,
when the Communists were in control, and who came to the United States as a
political refugee. She and her husband, also a doctor, settled in northern New
Jersey and she did not pay much attention to the political situation in
Afghanistan, she said.

But in recent months, Dr. Barbury, a staff pathologist at a community hospital,
felt the need to get involved.

"I was never a political person," she said. "But what you see now in Afghanistan
is heartbreaking. I think every Afghan wants to do something right now. They
need help."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghans met at a Queens cafe last Sunday to choose delegates for
a loya jirga, or grand assembly, hoping to play a role in Afghanistan's future.
(Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Nacer Fathi Mustafa

BYLINE:  By Tamar Lewin

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 360 words


Nacer Fathi Mustafa and his father, Fathi Mustafa, went to Mexico on Sept. 9, on
what was supposed to be a four-day business trip to buy leather jackets to sell
at their store in Labelle, Fla.

Because of the attacks, they could not fly back until Sept. 15, and when they
got to the airport in Houston, Mr. Mustafa, 29, and his 65-year-old father were
detained by immigration officials who said their passports had an extra layer of
laminate of the sort sometimes used to fraudulently insert a different picture.

The elder Mr. Mustafa, a Palestinian who is a naturalized American citizen, was
released after 10 days, but sent home to Florida wearing a leg monitor to track
his movements. His son, who was born in the United States and had a prior arrest
record, was kept in jail for more than two months, and finally got home to his
wife and two young daughters on Wednesday, after law-enforcement officials
cleared his passport.

"It's been very hard," Mr. Mustafa said. "My 18-year-old brother was working in
the store, but he doesn't know very much, and I've lost about $50,000. I don't
know yet if we'll be able to go on. This is a small town and your reputation
means everything."

His detention was difficult for his family. His wife, Sabreen, does not have a
driver's license, so she had to be driven everywhere she needed to go by members
of the extended family. And Diana, who is 5, and Jeneen, who is 8 months old,
were bewildered by their father's absence.

"I'd call every day, and talk to Diana, and she would ask when I'd be home, and
I would tell her in a week," Mr. Mustafa said. "I told her I was working. I
didn't want to say I was in jail."

Even so, he said, Diana must have heard people talking, because when he returned
she asked about jail. "So I asked her, 'What's jail?' and she didn't really
know," he said. "I'll tell her about it when she's older."

Mr. Mustafa's father still has the leg monitor attached, but expects that it to
be removed this week.

"It has been embarrassing for him," said his son. "He basically doesn't go out
much, but if he goes to the bank, he sees people looking at him. It's changed
his life a lot."   Tamar Lewin

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Yael Antebi

BYLINE:  By Tamar Lewin

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 401 words


At 2:30 a.m. after Halloween night, when she heard the knock on the door at her
Columbia, Mo., apartment, Yael Antebi was on the phone, calling her father in
Israel, where it was morning.

Her father didn't have time to answer before Ms. Antebi, 21, was arrested by
immigration agents, taken to Kansas City and put in jail there. Ms. Antebi came
to the United States in late September to visit her boyfriend, and the two of
them, like dozens of other young Israelis here, had found work selling plastic
toy helicopters and puzzles in shopping mall kiosks.

While her immigration papers were valid, Ms. Antebi was detained because her
tourist visa prohibited employment, an offense that, in normal times, rarely
results in detention. She was not alone. Around the country, at least 70 other
young Israelis, including her boyfriend, have been detained on similar charges.

It was an anxious time for Ms. Antebi's parents, who live near Haifa; they got
the message that their daughter had called, but all day, whenever they tried to
call back, there was no answer.

"We were very worried," said her mother, Uta Antebi. "And then when she was able
to call us, late the next day, we were very upset to find out that she was in
jail." Ms. Antebi was worried, too. "I was never arrested before," she said. .
"I had never been in jail. The people were nice to us, but it's a scary
situation. Everyone said it wouldn't be very long, but as the days went on, we
got more and more worried."

The logistics of calling her family in Israel made matters more complicated.
Detainees were only allowed to make collect calls within the United States. For
Ms. Antebi, the only route to her parents was through Yoav Cohen, a New York
relative, who would arrange a conference call.

"Yoav and my parents were great, and did everything they could to help," she
said. "I was lucky. They got me a lawyer, and I was released Monday. The sad
thing is, my boyfriend is still in there, and there's nothing I can do to help
him."

Ms. Antebi has agreed to go back to Israel, and she expects to leave next week.
She is eager to see her parents and her two younger brothers, one of whom just
went into the army.

"When I got out, and I called, I told him, this is the one moment in your life
when you go into the military, and here I am, getting all the attention," she
said. "I really hope my boyfriend is out by the time I leave."   Tamar Lewin

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yael Antebi, who came from Israel on a tourist visa, was
detained for a few days.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Swept Up in a Dragnet, Hundreds Sit in Custody and Ask, 'Why?'

BYLINE:   By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1050 words


Osama Elfar was dozing on a hard bench under the ever-present drone of the
prison television set when a guard's voice crackled over the intercom, "Happy
birthday." Otherwise, Nov. 9 would have passed without Mr. Elfar even noticing
he had turned 30.

"When you're here, you don't know day from night, Thursday from Friday -- it's
all the same," Mr. Elfar said in a telephone interview from the Mississippi
County Correctional Facility in Charleston, Mo. "A new decade start for me.
Unfortunately, I was locked up."

An Egyptian who came to the United States five years ago to attend a Florida
flight school, Mr. Elfar recently worked as a mechanic for a small airline in
St. Louis. He has been in jail for two months and began a hunger strike on
Friday to protest his incarceration.

Mr. Elfar is among hundreds of little-known foreigners swept up in a vast
dragnet after the terrorist attacks -- some of whom have resumes suspiciously
like those of the 19 hijackers, and others who have spent days, weeks and now
months in prison for immigration violations that before Sept. 11 would probably
have been ignored or resolved with paperwork. Government officials say that the
aggressive response is warranted by the extraordinary situation, and that they
are simply enforcing longstanding laws.

"Sept. 11 has forced the entire government to change the way we do business,"
said Mindy Tucker, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department. "Our No. 1 priority
right now is to prevent any further terrorist attacks. Part of that entails
identifying those who may have connections to terrorism who are here in America
and making sure they're not in a position to carry out any further terrorism."

Over all, more than 1,200 people have been detained as part of the sweeping
investigation, including men traveling the country with large amounts of cash
and box cutters, and those who sought information on crop-dusters and flying
lessons on large jets.

But a senior law enforcement official said for the first time last week that
just 10 to 15 of the detainees are suspected as Al Qaeda sympathizers, and that
the government has yet to find evidence indicating that any of them had
knowledge of the Sept. 11 attacks or acted as accomplices.

While most members of this small group are being held in New York on material
witness warrants, some 500 others -- almost twice as many as previously believed
-- are in federal custody on immigration charges for violations like overstaying
their visas or lying on documents.

A handful of those arrested are believed to have known some of of the suspected
hijackers. Osama Awadallah, for instance, wrote about one of them in a college
exam book, prosecutors say. Another student, Mohdar Abdallah, is in jail because
his name was found on a slip of paper in a rental car one of the hijackers
parked at Dulles International Airport in Washington before his suicide mission.

Others seem to have drawn suspicion for more coincidental reasons. An Egyptian
antiques dealer from Arkansas named Hady Hassan Omar made plane reservations on
a Kinko's computer around the same time one of the hijackers did so at the same
place; he spent two months in jail before being released on Friday. A Pakistani
gas station attendant was just a few minutes ahead of Mohammed Atta, the
suspected ringleader, in the line to renew his driver's license; he was denied
bail by a Miami judge.

Of those snared in the government's net, many have cooperated with the F.B.I.,
admitted that they violated their visa agreements and agreed to leave the
country. But they remain in jail.

Now, as the Justice Department seeks to interview 5,000 young men who have
arrived here from the Middle East on temporary visas in the past two years,
immigration attorneys and Arab-American community leaders are worried that
cooperation may lead to the same fate as that of those already detained.

"The impact of all this is alienating the very community whose confidence and
support is critical to a successful investigation," said Lucas Guttentag,
director of the immigration rights project of the American Civil Liberties
Union.

The F.B.I. has so far denied a Freedom of Information Act request filed by a
coalition of 21 Arab-American and human rights groups demanding a list of who is
jailed, where and why. Earlier this month, six members of Congress made a
similar request. Ms. Tucker said that the department was prevented from
releasing some information because judges have sealed criminal cases, and that
some information has been given to Congress.

"People don't want to step forward to help with bail," said Randall Hamud, a San
Diego lawyer who represents three detained students, one of whom has been
released. "They're afraid if they give money, they'll be put on an F.B.I. hit
list."

Mr. Elfar, the man who turned 30 in the detention center, said he was expecting
F.B.I. questions because he had entered the country to study at the Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Fla., as did one of the hijackers.
Agents picked him up on Sept. 24 at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport,
where he had been repairing planes for Trans States Airlines, a small regional
carrier, for several years.

Investigators seized Mr. Elfar's address book, phone bills and computer. On Oct.
5, he was given a lie detector test.

A month ago, Mr. Elfar, who is from Alexandria, Egypt, was granted a "voluntary
departure," which means he must leave the country but would not be blocked from
returning. He was supposed to fly out by Friday; instead, he is still in jail.

"He's willing to buy a ticket, but they're not finalizing this," said Dorothy
Harper, Mr. Elfar's lawyer. "Whether they're investigating more, whether they
just want to keep him around for a while, I don't know."

Already fasting during daylight hours because of Ramadan, Mr. Elfar said Friday
that he was starting a hunger strike and would only drink a glass of water each
sunset to fulfill his religious obligation of breaking the fast.

"A lot of things that were on my mind I do not believe it anymore, like the fair
trial, the free speech," he said.

Though the government has provided scant information, the story of the detainees
has begun to emerge through interviews with their lawyers, relatives and
friends. Here are a few of their stories.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2001



CORRECTION: An article on Sunday about foreigners detained in the aftermath of
the Sept. 11 attacks misidentified a student whose name appeared on a slip of
paper in a car rented by a hijacker. He is Osama Awadallah, not Mohdar Abdallah.
Mr. Abdallah is being held on charges that he lied on his application for
political asylum.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hady Hassan Omar was freed Friday; he was detained two months in
Arkansas. (Joel Rafkin/Ft. Smith Times Record)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Australia Wants More People, but Without More Immigration

BYLINE:  By JOHN SHAW

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Nov. 24


Australians recently made it clear in a national election that they want to
limit immigration, but they also recognize that they need more people for their
country.

Australia, as large as the United States, minus Alaska, has only 19.3 million
people. The United States has more than 280 million.

Many experts, lobbyists and opinion makers in business, politics, research
centers and the news media here are advocating more inviting policies and
programs for both migration and parenthood to counter a long decline in the
national birthrate, and to avoid the demographic black hole of zero population
growth.

As in similar debates elsewhere about falling fertility rates, which reduce the
labor supply and result in a greater ratio of retirees to working-age adults,
the demographic issues in Australia result from slow change and do not lend
themselves well to quick action.

But Australia is not alone in facing this problem. Such themes are also emerging
on the political and economic agendas of developed nations elsewhere,
particularly in Western Europe and Japan.

In the Nov. 10 election here, in which governing conservatives won a third
three-year term, the government and the rival union-backed Labor Party agreed on
forcibly rejecting about 2,000 asylum seekers -- refugees escaping conflicts and
poverty in the Middle East and other parts of Asia -- who had been ferried into
Australian waters by smugglers.

Both political parties want to offer tax breaks to new mothers, but neither side
offered voters a coherent immigration or population policy.

The scope for demographic debate here remains wide, with some ecologists saying
that by 2050 the population should be cut in half to preserve the environment,
while some developers and strategists want to double it by midcentury for
defense and economic reasons.

Those taking the middle ground project growth to about 25 million over 30 years,
and say that achieving even that modest expansion requires significant policy
reforms intended to recruit skilled migrants and to maintain or lift birthrates.

Australia's immigration minister, Philip Ruddock, is seeking to bring in 85,000
settlers next year, half of them English-speaking skilled workers, a difficult
goal. "We have to compete with increasing global demand for skilled migrants,"
he said.

Australia also faces a "brain drain" of its own educated young people, with
about 6 percent of its college graduates leaving this year, mainly lured by jobs
overseas.

"Australia is becoming a small player in the international migration market,"
said Peter McDonald, a professor of demography at the Australian National
University. "It is not easy to recruit." He cited the European Union's recent
moves to coordinate immigration among its 15 member nations.

The latest United Nations Population Fund report forecasts that if present
trends continue, the population of Europe, now 726.3 million, will be 603.3
million by 2050. Japan's population, now 127.3 million, is expected to drop to
109.2 million.

Fertility is falling across the developed world. Australia's 1.7 births per
woman is above Spain's 1.2 and Italy's 1.4, but well below the "replacement
rate" of 2.1, last reached here in 1975. The rate in the United States is 2.06.

Dr. McDonald said it was likely that the birthrate would fall to the current
Canadian level of 1.65.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BRIEFING: TRANSPORTATION;
IMMIGRANTS' LICENSES LIMITED

BYLINE:  By John Holl

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 71 words


The Division of Motor Vehicles has stopped issuing licenses to immigrants whose
visas expire in one year or less, and those whose visas are a year or longer
will get licenses good only for the length of the visa rather than for four
years. The purpose is to curb fraudulent use of licenses as proof of legal
residence; 2 of the Sept. 11 hijackers used New Jersey licenses to rent cars and
buy airline tickets.   John Holl

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INTERVIEWS;
MICHIGAN 'INVITES' MEN FROM MIDEAST TO BE INTERVIEWED

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words


Rather than send investigators out knocking on doors, law enforcement officials
in Michigan are sending letters today to hundreds of young Middle Eastern men
who have come to the United States on temporary visas in the last two years,
inviting them to make appointments for interviews regarding the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

The decision by the antiterrorism task force in the Detroit area, which is
responsible for contacting about 700 of the 5,000 visitors sought for
questioning nationwide, comes after two weeks of complaints from lawyers,
community groups and local police chiefs that the vast canvass order by the
Department of Justice unfairly singles out people based on religion or
nationality and would be too time-consuming.

"The letters represent a conscious decision by our district to initiate contact
with the people who will be interviewed in the manner that will be least
intrusive," said Jeffrey Collins, the United States attorney for the Eastern
District of Michigan, which is home to the nation's largest concentration of
Arab-Americans.

Mr. Collins refused to say what the authorities would do about those who failed
to call. About a dozen of his counterparts around the country declined to
comment on Detroit's approach or explain how they would carry out the
interviews. Several indicated that they had yet to begin the project, though
Washington has asked that all interviews be conducted by Dec. 21.

Separately, Attorney General John Ashcroft yesterday defended the widespread
detention of immigrants who had been swept up in the aftermath of the attacks,
saying the arrests had "made America grow stronger, not weaker," and had been
instrumental in "winning the war on terrorism."

In an eight-page memorandum outlining guidelines for the interviews, the Justice
Department instructed local officials to check visitors' passports and visas.
They are also to be asked about their visits to local landmarks and foreign
countries; about their sources of income, scientific expertise and access to
weapons, including anthrax; and for a list of phone numbers of friends and
relatives.

"The individual should be asked if he is aware of anybody, including himself,
who has received any training which could be applicable to terrorist
activities," said the memorandum, whose contents were disclosed on Saturday in
The Detroit Free Press. "You should ask whether the individual is aware of any
persons who have sympathy for the Sept. 11 hijackers or other terrorists."

Civil liberties advocates and Arab-American leaders said the use of letters in
Detroit was a positive step toward making the interview process more dignified,
but they continued to express concern about the content of the questions and the
process of compiling the list. The 5,000 people being sought are men from 18 to
33 who have entered the country since Jan. 1, 2000 on tourist, student or
business visas from countries linked to terrorism.

"You're asking people what are your political beliefs and what are the beliefs
of your friends," said Hussein Ibish, a spokesman for the American Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee. "That is a set of questions that has a dark
history in our country."

The Detroit letter emphasizes, with a boldface sentence, "We have no reason to
believe that you are, in any way, associated with terrorist activities." The
interviews are voluntary, it said, adding that "it is crucial that the
investigation be broad based and thorough, and the interview is important to
achieve that goal."

The letter, which asked that people contact the United States attorney's office
by Dec. 4 and promised to accommodate their schedules in setting up interviews,
said, "It is quite possible that you have information that may seem irrelevant
to you, but which may help us piece together this puzzle."

Mindy Tucker, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said she was unaware of
any other region that planned to send out letters rather than contact
interviewees in person, but that the approach seemed fine.

"One of the reasons that we enlisted state and local assistance is that they
will know best how to conduct these interviews," she said. "We realize that each
task force in each of the districts will have a different way of going about
accomplishing the task."

Even as they praised the letters, lawyers and community leaders raised doubts
about the strategy's effectiveness. Many foreigners may be reluctant to come
forward, they said, including those who may have violated their visa agreements
and fear that they will land in jail. Others, particularly those who grew up
under repressive regimes, may be intimidated by the notion of contact with the
government.

"Some of them may not call," said Hassan Qazwini, imam of the Islamic Center of
America, Detroit's largest mosque. "Not because they have something to hide, but
because they don't want to have the hassle of going to meet the officials and
experience the panic they sometimes have experienced in their own countries."

Lucas Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said the 5,000 interviews were particularly troubling
because of other Justice Department initiatives, like the detention of some 500
people on immigration violations, the increased scrutiny on new visa applicants
from certain countries, and the use of military tribunals for those suspected of
terrorist activity.

Asked at a Washington news conference, Mr. Ashcroft promised yesterday that he
would provide an updated tally later this week of how many people had been
arrested and how many remained in jail. But he warned that few specifics would
be forthcoming and that the government would continue to withhold their
identities.

"It would be a violation of the privacy rights of individuals for me to create
some kind of list of all of them that are being held," he said when asked why he
had not identified those arrested.

He added, "I'm not going to develop some sort of blacklist of individuals who
have been held."

Mr. Ashcroft also said that those arrested since Sept. 11 "are not being held in
secret" and that all had been given an opportunity to contact lawyers.

Senators Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin and Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, both
Democrats, said Mr. Ashcroft's response was insufficient.

"To the extent that privacy concerns exist, they are overcome by the need for
public scrutiny of the actions taken by those charged with enforcing our laws,"
said Mr. Feingold, one of several lawmakers who have formally requested details
about the detainees. "A far more significant injury to the detainees'
reputations comes from treating them as a single group possibly associated with
the terrorists."

Mr. Leahy said in a statement, "It's time we know who these people are and why
they're being held."

Bill Berger, president of the International Association of Police Chiefs, said
that the Detroit area's strategy of contacting people by mail was a good one,
but that in most of the country, where fewer were wanted for questioning, local
agencies would have no problem conducting the canvass.

He minimized the reservations expressed by a few of his members, like Andrew
Kirkland, the acting police chief of Portland, Ore., who has said he would
refuse to take part because the interviews violated the state constitution.

"The chiefs that I've talked to, I think, will do anything possible to assist
this country in what we're going through right now," said Mr. Berger, who is
police chief of North Miami Beach, Fla.

THE GUIDELINES
Excerpts From the Justice Dept.'s Interview Instructions

Following are excerpts from a memorandum from the Justice Department advising
United States attorneys how to conduct interviews of 5,000 men, mostly from
Middle Eastern nations, who have arrived on temporary visas since Jan. 1, 2000.

TELEPHONE NUMBERS You should obtain all telephone numbers used by the individual
and his family or close associates.

RESIDENCE You should ask the individual where he is residing and about any other
residences that he has used since his arrival in this country. If he lives with
others, you should inquire as to their identities. You should note any
information that would assist in locating the individual in the future.

FOREIGN TRAVEL You should ask the individual what foreign countries he has
visited, the dates of those visits and the reasons he went to those countries.
You should inquire specifically whether he or anybody he knows has ever visited
Afghanistan. . . .

REASON FOR THE INDIVIDUAL'S VISIT The individual should be asked about his
reasons for visiting the United States. If the individual is here to attend
school, you should learn what you can about his studies and future plans. If the
individual is here as a tourist, you should inquire as to the cities, landmarks
and other sites that he has visited or plans to visit. You should ask when the
individual plans to leave the United States and where he plans to go. You should
also ask the purpose of any trips the individual has made outside of the United
States since his entry.

REGARDING THE EVENTS OF SEPT. 11, 2001 You should ask the individual whether he
knows, or is aware of anyone who knows, anything about the Sept. 11 attacks or
the perpetrators.

REACTION TO TERRORISM You should ask the individual if he noticed anybody who
reacted in a surprising or inappropriate way to the news of the Sept. 11
attacks. You should also ask him how he felt when he heard the news.

INVOLVEMENT IN TERRORISM You should inquire whether the individual knows anybody
who has had involvement in advocating, planning, supporting or committing
terrorist activities, and whether he has ever had any personal involvement in
such activities.

KNOWLEDGE OF WEAPONS The individual should be asked whether he or anybody he
knows has access to guns or to any explosives or harmful chemical compounds, or
has any training in the development or use of such weapons. You should also ask
if he knows of anyone who is capable of developing any biological or chemical
weapons such as anthrax.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States attorney, Jeffrey Collins, right, and the
police chief, William Dwyer, of Farmington Hills, Mich., told of the interview
plan. (Associated Press)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 27, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hamamatsu Journal;
Sons and Daughters of Japan, Back From Brazil

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 920 words

DATELINE: HAMAMATSU, Japan


Joining a flood of Brazilians lured here a decade ago to fill vacancies on
Japan's assembly lines, Benedito Vilela Garcia came planning to make some quick
yen then to go back home, hoping to open a pharmacy in his native country.

Now, after failing with his pharmacy venture, he is back with a permanent visa.
No longer a temporary "aventureiro," he has opened two Brazilian schools, part
of a move among 11,000 Brazilians to put down roots in this boxy gray industrial
city, sandwiched between the Pacific Ocean and the Japanese Alps.

Japan, an insular nation that prizes ethnic and cultural homogeneity, has long
kept its foreign workers at arm's length.

But with a daunting demographic hump on the horizon -- by 2025 a quarter of the
population will be over 65 -- it is changing its approach to the quarter-million
Brazilians, largely of Japanese descent, who have moved here.

Ten years from now Japan's baby boomers will start retiring, and the United
Nations has recommended that Japan import 600,000 workers a year to keep the
world's second-largest economy on track and its pension systems from collapsing.

While Japan shows no intention of meeting that goal, last year the government
began offering permanent visas to Brazilian migrants, turning them into
immigrants and giving this country a foretaste of cultural diversity.

"Japan has to come out of its shell," said Ivan Cannabrava, Brazil's ambassador.
In contrast to the bitter colonial origins of Korean and Chinese populations in
Japan, he said, "There are no historic resentments with Brazil."

"There is no desire among the Brazilians to isolate themselves," he added. "For
Japan this is the unique experiment of a foreign community trying to integrate
itself."

Japanese began arriving in Brazil in 1908 to work on coffee plantations. With
the United States imposing anti-Asian immigration controls in the 1920's, the
numbers grew faster in Brazil.

Brazil now has 1.3 million people of Japanese ancestry, the largest such
population outside Japan. The reverse migration began in 1990, when Japan
liberalized its immigration laws to allow Brazilians of Japanese descent and
their spouses to come to Japan on temporary work visas.

Until four or five years ago, Brazilians were here just to put together money to
go home, Mr. Garcia said during a tour of his school here, a hilltop
establishment echoing with the singsong of Brazilian Portuguese. Now many have
come back, planning to stay.

In the last five years, the number of private Brazilian schools in Japan has
mushroomed, from 4 to 41. There are two Brazilian television channels and four
Brazilian weekly newspapers.

Although Japan's Brazilian population has stabilized at 254,000, the amount of
money sent home has dropped 60 percent since 1997, falling to $294 million last
year, according to Brazil's Central Bank. Spending their salaries here,
immigrants now tap into a network of Portuguese-speaking real estate agents and
car salesmen.

"Before, they used to go by bicycle or buy a minicar -- now they all want a
one-million-yen car," Mr. Garcia said, contrasting his sensible 1980's Toyota
with newer $8,000 models.

But all is not smooth for new immigrants in a society that prizes conformity. At
a meeting here recently for mayors of 13 Japanese cities with large Brazilian
minorities, talk ranged over social problems, from cultural clashes to school
absenteeism to crime.

Hidefumi Tanaka, mayor of Iida, home to 1,700 Brazilians, who make up 1.5
percent of its population, complained that foreigners failed to take seriously a
municipal recycling system and a ban on picking apples from trees on the city's
showcase boulevard.

There was also concern among the mayors about the crime rates among the
Brazilians. Adelson Brito, a Brazilian who works for this city as a crime
prevention coordinator, says there is some delinquency by the children of
immigrants who fail to study Japan's language, laws or customs while working
long hours in factories. "The Brazilian schools prepare people for their past in
Brazil, not their future in Japan," he said.

The new schools may ease alienation, though. Of Japan's 35,000 school-age
Brazilians, only 7,000 attend public schools. Some of the mayors gathered here
estimated that as many as half of the Brazilian children in their cities were
not in school. Mandatory education and universal health coverage do not apply to
foreigners.

"They treat you differently," Henrique Toshio, 14, a student at the Brazilian
school here, responded when asked why he dropped out of Japanese school. "The
Japanese don't like to hang out with Brazilians."

There are success stories, though, like Edson M. Tamada, who recalls how he
dropped out of high school in Sao Paulo, moving here at 17 to work in an auto
parts factory.

Today he runs I. B. Fox, a multinational food company with a binational staff of
70 and revenues of $16 million. The key to success, he said, is for immigrants
to embrace Japanese "culture, customs, language -- to integrate into the
community, to create a new generation."

But for now the cultural gap is deep.

To entertain the mayors, the Brazilian school here presented a show, starting
off with a roll of drums and the shimmy of samba dancers.

"There is a tremendous cultural difference," observed Jacques Jobin, a visiting
Canadian urban government expert, standing in a sea of black-suited Japanese
city officials. "In that first dance, when the young girls came out in the
bikinis and feathers, the majority of the men stared at their feet."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Tayara Nagamine, left, and Natali Kiyan, center,
15-year-old students at the Brazilian School of Hamamatsu, prepared to perform
at a meeting. In photo at left, students in the school's bus: from left,
Patricia Aragon, Ingrid Nagao and Bruna Oliveira. (Photographs by Stuart
Isett/Gamma, for The New York Times) Map of Japan highlights Hamamatsu:
Hamamatsu, an industrial city, is home to 11,000 Brazilians.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 28, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION;
ASHCROFT OFFERS ACCOUNTING OF 641 CHARGED OR HELD

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS and DON VAN NATTA Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27


Faced with growing criticism over his refusal to identify people jailed since
the Sept. 11 attacks, Attorney General John Ashcroft today provided for the
first time the names of 93 people charged with crimes arising from the
government's investigation.

Mr. Ashcroft also released an accounting of the 548 people, most from Middle
Eastern countries, who remain in custody across the United States on immigration
charges that arose in the terror investigation. But that list included only the
nationalities and the charges -- not the names.

Still, today's announcement was the Justice Department's most detailed
disclosure about the people who have been arrested in the terror investigation,
and it follows several days of harsh criticism by elected officials, civil
libertarians and others of the government's tactics.

Mr. Ashcroft spoke a day before the Senate Judiciary Committee is to begin
hearings into the government's law-enforcement efforts, including the detention
of hundreds of people on immigration charges and the continuing interviews of
5,000 Muslim men.

The committee's chairman, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, has been
among the most persistent critics of Mr. Ashcroft's tactics, and the attorney
general's comments today seemed intended to deflect some of the criticism the
Bush administration is likely to face.  News analysis, Page B7.

Mr. Ashcroft, who is expected to testify before the committee next week,
insisted that rights have been protected. "While I am aware of various charges
being made by organizations and individuals about the actions of the Justice
Department," he said, "I have yet to be informed of a single lawsuit filed
against the government charging a violation of someone's civil rights as a
result of this investigation."

Of the 93 people named as criminal defendants, about 60 are in custody, a
Justice Department list indicates. The others have been released on bond or are
being sought. None have been charged with terrorism or involvement in the Sept.
11 attacks.  Page B6.

Most of the charges are relatively minor, like credit card fraud or making false
statements when applying for passports. One man, Souhail Sarwer, is a fugitive
wanted on charges of credit card fraud.

But Mr. Ashcroft pointed to several who seemed to have links to the 19 men
suspected of hijacking the four planes used in the Sept. 11 attacks. One man, he
noted, was charged with helping two of the suspected hijackers obtain fraudulent
identification cards, while the names of two other men were found in a car left
by another suspected hijacker at Dulles International Airport.

One of the men whose name was found in the car, Osama Awadallah, a 21-year-old
college student, was granted bail today in New York by a federal judge who
questioned the strength of the government's case against him. Mr. Awadallah has
been charged with lying before a grand jury when he denied knowing Khalid
al-Midhar, one of the men suspected of hijacking the plane that crashed into the
Pentagon, and prosecutors had sought to hold him without bail.

But the judge, Shira A. Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, ruled
that he could be released on $500,000 bond, saying, "this defendant is charged
with making false declarations -- not with terrorism, or aiding and abetting
terrorism, or conspiring with terrorists."

The identities of many of the 93 people had already been released, including the
22 men charged in October with obtaining fraudulent licenses to drive commercial
trucks loaded with hazardous materials. Most of those men were charged in
Pittsburgh, and remain in custody.

While providing the new numbers and details, Mr. Ashcroft continued to withhold
the identities of 548 people arrested for immigration violations. He said he was
required to release only the names of those charged with criminal violations,
except for 11 people whose arrests have been sealed by a federal judge.

Mr. Ashcroft said that some of the 600 in jail were members of Al Qaeda and that
their arrest had probably foiled additional attacks. He would not say how many
or give their names, but law enforcement officials suggested they were mostly
the 11 held under seal, mostly in New York.

Mr. Ashcroft asserted that the law allowed him to withhold the names of those
charged under the immigration code. They were identified in a separate list only
by their places of birth, the immigration violations they are charged with and
the dates they were arrested. Of the 548, the greatest number, 208 were from
Pakistan with the next largest group, 74, from Egypt.

Mr. Ashcroft seemed irked with the complaints about the Justice Department's
withholding details. He said he was not releasing the names of those charged
with immigration violations because that would aid Osama bin Laden by revealing
which associates were in custody.

"I am not interested in providing, when we are at war, a list to Osama bin Laden
and the Al Qaeda network of the people we have detained that would make any
easier their effort to kill Americans," Mr. Ashcroft said.

"We might as well mail this list to the Osama bin Laden Al Qaeda network as to
release it. The Al Qaeda network may be able to get information about which
terrorists we have in our custody, but they'll have to get it on their own."

On Monday, he had said he would not release the names of those arrested because
it would violate their privacy rights and would damage their reputations by
putting them on a kind of blacklist.

Mr. Ashcroft's actions today did not appear to silence some critics. Senator
Russell D. Feingold, a Wisconsin Democrat and member of the Judiciary Committee,
said, "While I appreciate the Justice Departments finally providing a rough
estimate of the number people who are currently in detention, I continue to be
deeply troubled by its refusal to provide a full accounting of everyone who has
been detained and why."

Mr. Feingold said the administration's stand on releasing information on the
detainees was part of a larger problem involving plans for military tribunals
and authorizing eavesdropping on conversations between some lawyers and
terrorist suspects.

Mr. Ashcroft today sought to portray the administration's actions as well aimed
at what he said was the government's greatest priority, preventing future
terrorist actions.

"We are standing firm in our commitment to protect American lives," he said.
"The Department of Justice is waging a deliberate campaign of arrest and
detention to protect American lives, and we're removing suspected terrorists who
violate the law from our streets to prevent further terrorist attack. We believe
we have Al Qaeda membership in custody, and we will use every constitutional
tool to keep suspected terrorists locked up."

He said all of those detained had access to a lawyer and were able to contact
their families.

Ten to 15 defendants are being held as material witnesses, with most in a
federal detention center in New York. Among them is Zacarias Moussaoui, a
33-year-old French citizen of Moroccan descent who was arrested in Minnesota on
Aug. 17. Senior Bush administration officials are debating whether to make Mr.
Moussaoui the first person to be tried on terrorism charges before a military
tribunal.

The group also includes Nabil al-Marabh, a former Boston cabdriver whom an
informer linked to Mr. bin Laden, and Ayub Ali Khan and Mohammed Azmath, who
were carrying box cutters and at least $5,000 in cash when they were arrested
aboard a train in Texas on Sept. 11.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft released the names of detainees.
(Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 28, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Family Awaits News on Cubans Lost at Sea

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 27


Last week, David Castro believed that his daughter and granddaughter had drowned
along with 28 others aboard a boat trying to make its way from Cuba to Florida.
This week, he is not so sure.

Mr. Castro's daughter, Yaquelin, 28, and granddaughter, Claudia, 8, were among
the passengers thought to be lost at sea, victims of a failed attempt to be
smuggled into the United States. Last Wednesday, the Coast Guard ended a search
for survivors after finding a capsized boat 40 miles south of Key West.

But Mr. Castro, 48, a Cuban exile who owns a restaurant here called Mar y
Tierra, was given hope when local Spanish radio and television stations began
reporting on rumors that the passengers had been rescued by a Panamanian ship.

Danilo Gutierrez, a spokesman for the Panamanian immigration service, appeared
to confirm those rumors on Monday when he told Mayin Correa, a reporter for
Continente Radio in Panama City, that the Cubans had been picked up in
international waters by a vessel under the Panamanian flag but that the ship had
not yet arrived in port. The report was later broadcast to Cuba via the United
States government's Radio Marti.

Hours later, however, immigration officials in Panama, including Mr. Gutierrez's
supervisor, Ilka de Bares, denied the report.

The effects of his comments could not be so easily reversed. When Mr. Castro's
mother, who also lives in Miami, saw a television report on Sunday about the
supposed Panamanian rescue, she called Mr. Castro about it. "Everyone was
excited, very excited," Mr. Castro said. "It was like we got our life back. Now
they're taking it away again, but I still have hope."

A Coast Guard spokeswoman, Petty Officer Danielle de Marino, said today that the
Coast Guard was aware of the rumor but did not share the relatives' optimism.
She said the Coast Guard had spoken with the Panamanian authorities and were
unable to confirm the report of a rescue. Without any proof of survivors, Coast
Guard officials said, the search effort would not resume.

Mr. Castro says he is not satisfied with the response from the United States
government. He says that he is convinced that the Cubans are being kept hidden
and that the Panamanians have made a back-room deal with the Cuban government.

"If they want to return them to Cuba, return them," Mr. Castro pleaded. The
uncertainty, he said, is "killing their families."

Officials representing the Cuban government in Washington were unavailable for
comment today.

Mr. Castro's former son-in-law, Carlos Montane, has said he paid $16,000 to
bring his ex-wife and daughter to the United States.

Mr. Montane, a truck driver, left Cuba on a raft in the summer of 1994. He was
picked up and detained at Guantanamo Naval Base for some time before obtaining
permission to enter the United States. He has maintained a close relationship
with Mr. Castro, who said Mr. Montane, overwhelmed by the loss of his daughter
and ex-wife and by his own sense of responsibility for their fate, had
threatened suicide.

Mr. Castro said he had been hoping to see his granddaughter for the first time.

"I thought I would close the restaurant and throw a party here," he said,
adding, "This has been the worst week of my life."

Still, Mr. Castro holds out hope.

"I can't give up hope," he said, "because I don't know what would happen to me
if I gave up hope."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE HEARINGS;
Justice Dept. and Senate Clash Over Bush Actions

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28


The growing debate over the Bush administration's antiterrorism initiatives
broke onto the public stage today during a Senate hearing where a senior Justice
Department official was forced to deal with questions about the planned use of
military tribunals and the arrest and interrogation of hundreds of mostly Middle
Eastern men.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said the
Bush administration was failing to "respect the checks and balances that make up
our constitutional framework."

In responding, Michael Chertoff, the assistant attorney general in charge of the
criminal division, told the Senate Judiciary Committee: "Are we being aggressive
and hard-nosed? You bet we are. In the aftermath of Sept. 11, how could we not
be?"

Mr. Chertoff, a major architect of the antiterrorism program, spoke in gentle
tones, but the atmosphere in the Senate hearing room was filled with the
political strains and philosophical debates of the last few weeks.

He said the president's actions, including the questioning of thousands of men
from Middle Eastern countries, the detention of more than 600 people on
immigration and criminal charges, and the monitoring of conversations between
lawyers and some defendants, were all intended to prevent future terrorist acts.

"We are pursuing that priority aggressively and systematically with a national
and international investigation of unprecedented scope," he said. "But we are
carefully doing so within established constitutional and legal limits."

Senator Leahy of Vermont was one of several committee members, mostly Democrats,
who sharply criticized the administration's approach. He noted that Congress
quickly enacted an antiterrorism bill last month with the cooperation of the
administration.

"In the wake of that achievement, the administration has departed from that
example to launch a lengthening list of unilateral actions," Mr. Leahy said,
referring to the batch of executive branch orders putting new initiatives in
place.

Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania was the only Republican to voice
displeasure with the administration; he complained that Congress was not
consulted about the plans for military tribunals.

"It was surprising to me that the attorney general did not consult with any
member of the committee," Mr. Specter said. When Mr. Chertoff began his response
by saying that the president and attorney general regard Congress as a "full
partner" in the fight against terrorism, Mr. Specter interjected, "How can you
talk about full partnership when nobody let us know this executive order was
coming down?"

In his testimony, Mr. Chertoff introduced a new explanation for the department's
detention of about 600 men, on criminal and immigration charges. He said it was
intended, in part, to catch and disable what he called "sleeper" agents Osama
bin Laden might have sent to the United States.

"A sleeper is a committed terrorist sent sometimes years in advance into a
possible target location, where he may assume a new identity and live an
outwardly normal life, all the while waiting to launch a terrorist attack," he
said.

Mr. Chertoff said Mr. bin Laden's Al Qaeda organization is known to use sleeper
agents. He cited the case of Mohammed Odeh, who was convicted this year for his
role in the bombing of the United States Embassy in Nairobi. He said Mr. Odeh
lived undercover in Kenya for nearly five years before he was activated.

"Now, how are we going to combat the terrorists' use of sleepers?" Mr. Chertoff
said. "We could continue as before and hope for the best, or we can do what we
are currently doing -- pursuing a comprehensive and systematic investigative
approach that uses every available lawful technique to identify, disrupt and if
possible, incarcerate or deport persons who pose threats to our national
security."

The Justice Department this week disclosed for the first time the names of 93
people held under federal criminal charges, but Mr. Ashcroft said he would not
release the names of 548 people arrested on charges of violating immigration
regulations.

Mr. Ashcroft told reporters that he could not do so because the law properly
prevents the department from creating a public black list of detainees that
would violate their rights.

But under questioning today from Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of
Wisconsin, Mr. Chertoff acknowledged that there was no specific law blocking the
release of the names. Still, he said he believed there was a legitimate concern
about violating the privacy of those arrested.

Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the committee's ranking Republican, defended Mr.
Chertoff and Mr. Ashcroft and said that for all the complaints in Congress and
among some civil liberties groups, most Americans support the administration's
antiterrorism approach.

"Indeed, most Americans worry that we are not doing enough to thwart potential
terrorist attacks, not that we are doing too much," Mr. Hatch said.

Mr. Chertoff also defended the executive order that allows the president to have
a suspected terrorist tried before a military tribunal that could convict on a
two-thirds majority vote of the officer board, impose the death penalty and
conduct its proceedings in secret.

He described this as necessary to protect the public.

Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said that if terrorists were
brought back to the United States, "we'd have the potential for a repeat of the
O. J. Simpson trial, complete with grandstanding by defense lawyers."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff addressed the Senate
Judiciary Committee yesterday as his staff members filled the row behind him.
(Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Northwest: Washington: I.N.S. Review Of Airport Workers

BYLINE:  By Matthew Preusch (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 81 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is examining immigration documents
for 18,000 workers at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport as part of a
nationwide review to improve security.

Irregularities could lead to the detention or deportation of airport service
employees, said Robert Okin, deputy director for the service in Seattle. The
service is checking whether roughly 40 airport contractors collected immigration
documentation for their employees.   Matthew Preusch (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE CASES;
Al Qaeda Link Seen In Only a Handful Of 1,200 Detainees

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE and CHRISTOPHER DREW;  Don Van Natta and Jo Thomas
also contributed to this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words


The nationwide search for terrorists after Sept. 11 has resulted in the arrests
of more than 1,200 people, but law enforcement officials said yesterday that
only a small number of those detained are believed to have any links to
terrorism. The approximately 600 people still in custody are mostly being held
on immigration violations or unrelated crimes from child pornography to credit
card fraud that agents came across while pursuing the investigation.

On Tuesday, Attorney General John Ashcroft said the campaign of detentions was
intended to remove "suspected terrorists who violate the law from our streets."

But a review of documents and interviews with law enforcement officials and
defense lawyers show that the detentions have yielded a collection of fairly
routine immigration violators, speeders and petty criminals who got caught up in
an aggressive dragnet prompted by fears of further terrorist attacks.

Of the 104 people charged with federal crimes as announced by Mr. Ashcroft on
Tuesday, almost all were accused of crimes completely unrelated to terrorism.
Senior federal law enforcement officials said today that of the group, only 10
or 11 were believed to have any relationship to the terrorist group Al Qaeda.

Of another group of 548 people, all unnamed, that Mr. Ashcroft said are being
held on immigration charges across the country, only about a dozen are believed
to have terrorist ties, the senior law enforcement officials said.

Those officials, who are involved in the investigation, said today that they
were skeptical of Mr. Ashcroft's characterization that the detentions were
having a profound impact on interrupting terrorist activity in the United
States.

One former senior F.B.I. official described the investigation this way: "When
you send a whole lot of agents out after a whole lot of people, they're going to
find some who committed various crimes. It's just inevitable. And when they find
criminal activity, even if it's not the crime they were looking for, they're
going to make an arrest."

Since mid-October, in fact, the number of people who the authorities believe
have any connection to the Sept. 11 attacks has grown only slightly, even as the
F.B.I. and the Immigration and Naturalization Service have continued to round up
and hold hundreds of people. The contrast between the progress of the
investigation and the repeated statements of Mr. Ashcroft that the detentions
are preventing terrorism has led many advocates to charge that the government is
simply looking for ways to keep people detained as it struggles to build its
terrorism cases.

"Initially, it was a huge sweep, and it seemed like there was some basis for
thinking these people might have some information on the terrorists," said
Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, which includes many of the lawyers representing those arrested.
"But as things have gone on, it has come to seem very broad and overreaching, a
fishing expedition instead of a targeted law enforcement effort."

The cloud of terrorism no longer remains over many of those in custody, however.
A large number of those still in detention are now simply fighting the
garden-variety criminal and immigration charges that the government used to
arrest them in the first place. The F.B.I. has lost interest in them as possible
terrorists, but local authorities and immigration officials feel obliged to
continue their pursuit of the original charges, which often resulted from tips
or traffic stops.

In one example, officials said a truck salesman in Philadelphia called the
F.B.I. in mid-September after two men from Egypt tried to buy a large panel
truck with $30,000 in cash. One of the men lived in New York City, and federal
agents quickly determined that he had been in the United States on an expired
visa for nine years. Law enforcement officials said they also found that his
apartment was filled with false identification cards and that several phone
numbers found in the apartment had come up in narcotics investigations. They
said the man was detained on immigration charges and was still being held.

In another case, the officials said, they received a tip in late September about
a Middle Eastern man who had been seen with flight manuals. When agents visited
him, they decided that he had no ties to terrorists. But they found that he was
using a stolen computer and that his immigration status was in violation of the
law. He was taken into I.N.S. custody and included in the tally of people
detained.

Of the approximately 600 people who have been released, some were freed on
condition they leave the country, while others were simply let go, never fully
understanding what happened to them.

Abdulsalam Achou, a Syrian who had overstayed his visa, lived in a Jersey City
apartment next to one rented by two men who had been seized in Texas shortly
after the attacks carrying box cutters and cash. He was swept up in a raid of
the building by officials looking for immigration violations and was held until
this month, when the I.N.S. agreed to release him on condition he leave the
country.

Kamolakhan Tuychieva, a 41-year-old woman from Uzbekistan, was arrested on Sept.
25 in Parkin, Ark., while riding in a car with three other people, one of whom
had a name similar to one on the F.B.I.'s terrorism watch list, according to an
F.B.I. affidavit. She was charged with overstaying her tourist visa and
violating its terms by accepting employment with a janitorial service cleaning
Wal-Mart stores. For 40 days, she was held as a material witness against the
others in the car, but no evidence was presented against her.

"I kept asking them, 'What information is there that you think my client knows?'
but they wouldn't answer," said her lawyer, Mark Jesse of Little Rock. "I've
practiced for 10 years, but I've never heard of anyone being held for 40 days as
a material witness."

Administration officials say they see nothing wrong in using the terrorist
roundup to arrest or deport aliens for unrelated charges, even after their
connection to terrorism has been disproved.

"There are people who are in custody being detained pursuant to immigration
violations, and let's be clear, those are people who have essentially overstayed
their welcome in this country," Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff told
the Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday. "They don't belong here."

But immigration violations were only one tool used to hold those under
suspicion. Hundreds of other people were detained by local officials after
traffic stops or other random encounters with the police, and senior
law-enforcement officials now say that most them have been released and are
thought to have little or no connection to terrorists. Many of these arrests
occurred between late September and early November, when Mr. Ashcroft warned
twice about possible additional terrorist attacks and tips were pouring in from
a worried public.

Law enforcement officials in New York, for instance, said the tips have come
from all sorts of people, including Arab Americans. In one case, an Egyptian man
called to report that his roommate's brother had threatened to blow up a
shopping mall, the officials said.

The officials also have been extremely sensitive to possible threats to New
York's bridges, tunnels and landmark buildings and have stopped a variety of
people who were taking photographs or videotapes of them. But in most of these
cases, the officials said, people were detained only if they were in the United
States illegally.

For instance, in early November, police officers stopped two Israelis who were
videotaping the Queens-Midtown Tunnel. One of them, whose visa was in order,
said he was just taking tourist pictures; he was released. The other, who had
overstayed a work visa, was taken into I.N.S. custody, officials said.

Not all of those who are on the F.B.I.'s list but are not related to Sept. 11
are charged with petty crimes, however. On Friday, Vicente Rafael Pierre, 44,
and his wife, Traci Elaine Upshur, will go to trial before a federal jury in
Roanoke, Va., on firearms charges that include illegal possession of a firearm,
fraudulently obtaining a firearm, and knowingly violating firearms regulations.

Federal prosecutors say Mr. Pierre, who is a convicted felon, had his wife buy
two semiautomatic pistols for him. During a detention hearing in September,
Thomas Gallagher, a special agent for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, said Mr. Pierre was linked to Al Fuqra, which Mr. Gallagher described
as a violent black Muslim group that has been responsible for 17 bombings and 12
murders nationwide.

Al Fuqra, according to federal investigators, was formed in Pakistan in the
early 1980's and set up cells in North America in the early 1990's. Mr. Pierre
has testified that the group is merely a figment of someone's imagination.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE QUESTIONING;
Memo Adds To Suspicions Of Immigrants On Interviews

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 628 words

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 28


A week ago, the Justice Department's top civil rights official came here to
defend a federal plan to interview 5,000 young Middle Eastern men who had
entered the United States on temporary visas. The official, Ralph Boyd Jr., said
the interviews would be voluntary and were needed to help the government
investigate the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

His remarks were greeted with skepticism among the large population of
Arab-Americans here, where many have equated the plan with racial profiling.

And that skepticism grew stronger today after The Detroit Free Press reported on
an Immigration and Naturalization Service memorandum that said those who were
interviewed could be held without bond if investigators developed an interest in
them.

The memorandum, dated Friday, was written by Michael A. Pearson, executive
associate commissioner of the immigration service, and was sent to all regional
offices. It said requests by the Federal Bureau of Investigation "to detain
immigration violators under 'no bond' should be honored and will be handled in
the same manner as all prior cases with a direct nexus to the Sept. 11
investigation."

Noel Saleh, an immigration lawyer with many Arab clients, said of the
memorandum, "It just confirms our suspicion that what they've been saying was to
be a friendly encounter is not going to be a friendly encounter."

Mohammed Abdrabboh, another lawyer who represents Arab immigrants here, agreed.

"There is such a deep mistrust here," he said. "People think it's becoming a
dragnet, and this memo just confirms that."

Imad Hamad, regional director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee, said people here viewed the memorandum in the context of earlier
developments, from the passage of a sweeping antiterrorism law to the decision
to try terrorism suspects in secret military tribunals. Mr. Hamad said
Arab-Americans were feeling increasingly singled out.

"We all share the same concerns about safety and security," Mr. Hamad said.
"It's just hard for us to accept this kind of racial profiling, and especially
to accept that it could be part of our lives indefinitely."

A Justice Department spokeswoman, Susan Dryden, acknowledged the memorandum, but
said it did not indicate any change in policy. "Our primary purpose here is not
identifying immigration law violations," she said, "but at the same time, it is
our job to uphold the law. If we come across violators, we will report them."

More than 700 of those on the list of Middle Eastern men live in the Detroit
area, and federal officials here have tried to ease local fears of racial
profiling, agreeing to send letters of invitation to the men, rather than
showing up unannounced and knocking on their doors.

Abe Turaani, special projects coordinator for the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, said he was starting to hear some people talk
about returning to their homelands.

Describing one such conversation, Mr. Turaani said: "I had one man say to me,
'Where I come from, this is the norm. Here we are taught democracy and then we
see this happening. Maybe I would rather live somewhere where it's predictable
and it's the norm.' "

Mr. Saleh said a young man on a student visa, for example, might go into an
interview knowing that he had fallen behind on his required course load and thus
was technically in violation of immigration laws. That young man might be
nervous. "And that nervousness," Mr. Saleh said, "might be interpreted as being
uncooperative. And he could be detained."

Mr. Abdrabboh said the release of the memorandum would raise the anxiety of
those who were to be interviewed.

"I think it is going to make some people not even show up," he added.  "Then
they will go looking for them. And then we will see how voluntary this really
is."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Matters;
Left Forlorn Not at Altar, But at Border

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words


LAST year, Olga and Joseph Rosi of Guilderland, N.Y., decided that come December
2001, they would celebrate their fifth wedding anniversary in style, at a real
church wedding. Ms. Rosi wanted her parents there. She wanted her father to walk
her down the aisle. She wanted her sister to be her maid of honor.

In 1996, a civil ceremony had to do. Ms. Rosi had just immigrated to the United
States, her family was back home in Kazakhstan, money was limited.

Now she works as a prekindergarten teacher, her husband as a car salesman, and
they have settled in Guilderland, a suburb of Albany. They are ready to bring
their two families together at their church wedding on Dec. 14.

But unless the United States government has a change of its bureaucratic heart,
Ms. Rosi's family will not be at St. James the Apostle Church in Carmel, N.Y.,
where Mr. Rosi's parents live. Olga's father, Vladimir Chukaeva, and her sister,
Yelena, were denied visitors' visas on Sept. 24. Ms. Rosi's mother, Lyudmila,
who had also planned to apply, now fears it is futile to try.

The American authorities in Kazakhstan told father and daughter that they were
concerned that the two would overstay their visas, as do tens of thousands of
people every year -- including 2 of the 19 terrorists implicated in the Sept. 11
attacks.

That is why the Rosis suspect the denial is a result of the country's being more
vigilant about visas and immigration, particularly about applications from
Muslim countries. Kazakhstan, once part of the Soviet Union, is predominantly
Muslim, though the Chukaevas happen to be Russian Orthodox.

"When my father and sister-in-law went to the embassy, eight other people were
applying for visas to the United States, and all eight were denied," said Mr.
Rosi, 25. "The name of the country ends in 'stan.' That's the determining
factor."

A State Department official, speaking yesterday, denied that there was a
crackdown of any kind, then said that since Sept. 11: "We are asking all posts
to look at visa processing, to see what can be done to make it more secure. We
regret any inconvenience this may cause."

Ms. Rosi, 28, said she was fully aware of the tensions: "It's a delicate
situation; I understand that." But she is sure her parents do not want to stay
in the United States. Her father, 52, and mother, 50, have deep roots in
Kazakhstan, and jobs in a steel factory. "When people grow up in a country," she
said, "have brothers and sisters, have parents buried there, how can they start
a new life, in a different country with different traditions, no language
skills? They cannot."

Ms. Rosi's sister, though, is single, a 23-year-old reporter for a small
newspaper. The American authorities might suspect she would want to stay, as her
sister did before her. Olga Chukaeva came to the United States through an
exchange program in 1995, met her future husband at a summer camp in Brewster,
N.Y., where both worked, returned the next summer, overstayed her visa briefly,
then qualified for residency by marrying a citizen.

Yelena could try to overstay her visa, Mr. Rosi conceded. "But we would talk her
out of it, say 'don't do it, try to come over in a more legitimate fashion.' "

SINCE learning of the rejection, the Rosis have written letters and sought help.
Representative Michael R. McNulty, a Democrat from upstate New York, made
inquiries for them and was told Ms. Rosi's family could reapply for visas.

Perhaps just Ms. Rosi's parents will try again. But she and her husband, who
have decided to hold the wedding whatever happens, fear the joy will be drained
from a special moment.

More than one family's heartache is at a stake. The source of the government's
seeming callousness is its amply demonstrated inability to keep track of
visiting students and tourists who overstay their legal entry permits. Of the
estimated eight million illegal immigrants in the United States, more than three
million have abused visitor visas, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The illegal resident population is growing by about 275,000 a year, pursued by a
force of only 2,000 agents, who must also deal with all crimes committed by
illegal immigrants.

In good times, many Americans recognize the energizing impact of immigrants,
including the illegal immigrants who do jobs most citizens spurn. But in bad
times, the public mood shifts, the government makes policy on the run, and a
bride from Guilderland prepares to walk down the aisle alone.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: CIVIL LIBERTIES;
PRESIDENT DEFENDS MILITARY TRIBUNALS IN TERRORIST CASES

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29


President Bush today strongly defended his decision to establish military
tribunals to prosecute terrorists as well as the arrests and detentions of
hundreds of Middle Eastern men in the response to the Sept. 11 attacks.

Speaking to the men and women he has appointed as the country's top prosecutors,
Mr. Bush portrayed the tribunals and the detentions as necessary byproducts of
America's wartime footing. "The enemy has declared war on us," he said. "And we
must not let foreign enemies use the forums of liberty to destroy liberty
itself." Excerpt, Page B7.

Mr. Bush also joined Attorney General John Ashcroft in promoting another tool to
aid the investigation, a program to give special immigration status -- and
perhaps a path to citizenship -- to foreigners who provide useful information
about suspected terrorist activities here or abroad.

The Responsible Cooperators Program, Mr. Bush and Mr. Ashcroft said, is designed
to provide an incentive for new arrivals in the United States, including some
illegal immigrants, to give federal authorities leads in their widening
terrorist investigations.

The program already exists, and has drawn bipartisan support on Capitol Hill,
but the decision to promote it and focus it on antiterrorism was clearly part of
an effort to counter criticism from civil liberties advocates and others that
Mr. Ashcroft is leading a roundup of foreigners, and prosecuting hundreds on
visa or other violations even if they are found to have no connection with
terrorism.

In a sign that the concern about the roundup of foreigners has spread, the
Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Maher, today protested to Secretary of State
Colin L. Powell that his government had not been given the names of the several
dozen Egyptian citizens arrested or detained, or told on what charges they were
being held. In an interview, he said Mr. Powell had assured him that "Egyptians
will be informed of their rights," and that Egyptian diplomats will be given
access to the detainees.

Mr. Powell echoed the offer of greater openness, but suggested there were
obstacles. "We want to be as forthcoming as we can," he said today, "but we do
have some legal constraints we have to work our way through."

The detentions have come under attack from foreign governments, immigrants and
civil liberties groups here. They include F.B.I. "requests" to interview about
5,000 men, mostly from the Middle East, who recently entered the United States,
listening in on conversations between lawyers and some jailed defendants, and
the president's decision to grant himself the right to decide whether to use
military tribunals to try suspected terrorists.

Speaking to the newly appointed prosecutors in the Eisenhower Executive Office
Building, Mr. Bush defended the tribunals by characterizing terror suspects as
"combatants."

"Non-U.S. citizens who plan and/ or commit mass murder are more than criminal
suspects," he said. "They are unlawful combatants who seek to destroy our
country and our way of life."

Mr. Bush defended his actions on a day when speculation was rife that he may
soon have his first chance to create a military tribunal as a result of what
officials said was the capture of a member of Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. The man,
Ahmed Abdel-Rahman, is a son of a blind cleric who was convicted in 1995 of
plotting to blow up New York landmarks.

Vice President Dick Cheney said in an interview on ABC tonight that he believed
the suspect was in the hands of anti-Taliban rebels, and said American
interrogators were sorting out exactly whom the rebels are holding.

White House officials said that this was exactly the kind of case Mr. Bush had
in mind when he signed the executive order giving himself the option of creating
a tribunal that could convict with a two-thirds vote of military judges.

The trials may be open to the public, White House officials say, but could be
closed at any time that classified information surfaced, or information the
government determines could be helpful to the enemy. The White House spokesman,
Ari Fleischer, said today that the Justice Department and the Department of
Defense were working out guidelines that would govern how the tribunals would
operate, if the president orders one to convene.

At the White House, Mr. Fleischer likened the program that would give special
immigration status to foreigners who provide information about terrorism to
federal offers of cash rewards for information leading to the arrest of a wanted
suspect. (There is a $25 million reward for information leading to the capture
of Osama bin Laden.) But in this case, in lieu of cash, the government is
offering the right to stay in the United States and perhaps the prospect of
obtaining a green card.

Mr. Ashcroft said of the program, "It is designed to say to people that if you
would like to have an improved visa status for your own presence in the United
States and a pathway to citizenship, one of the ways you can do that is by
providing reliable and useful information about terrorism."

In his appearance before the prosecutors, Mr. Bush was more direct. "We're
interviewing people on a voluntary basis," he said. "We're saying, 'Welcome to
America. You come to our country, why don't you help make us safe? Why don't you
share information with us? Why don't you help protect innocent people, women and
children?' "

But immigration experts note that while people who came forward under the
program might get help and a better visa status, under other memorandums issued
by federal authorities in recent weeks, they could also be held on minor visa
violations.

It was also unclear whether Mr. Bush's invitation to foreigners would tamp down
the concerns of diplomats here that the United States is sweeping up foreigners
simply because they fit a terrorist profile.

Lebanon's ambassador here, Farid Abboud, said today, "It seems to us to be a big
dragnet and fishing spree." He noted that "they are not giving us names" of
those arrested; he learned the charges against one Lebanese detainee only after
his embassy spoke to authorities in Pennsylvania. At the same time, he praised
the Bush administration for making efforts to assure Muslims that they are not
being targeted. He also noted that Mr. Bush had invited him to a Ramadan meal.

"It was quite nice to have a Muslim sheik saying a prayer in the White House,"
the ambassador said.

Mr. Ashcroft, for his part, has spent the past two days trying to infuse the new
United States attorneys, here for a week of study and orientation, with the
gravity of their jobs at a time of war against terrorism. On Tuesday night he
walked them from one monument on the Mall to another, so that they would soak in
the words of Jefferson and Lincoln. Then, this morning, he took them to the
Pentagon, to see the site of the Sept. 11 attack on the building. "We need the
intensity and emotion that comes from visiting the largest crime scene ever
visited on Washington, D.C.," he told the prosecutors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INTERVIEWS;
Legal Experts Question Legality of Questioning

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 826 words


To the Bush administration, the interviews it wants to conduct with about 5,000
Middle Eastern men will generally be nothing more than relaxed chats.

"We're being as kind and fair and gentle as we can in terms of inviting people
to participate," Attorney General John Ashcroft said this week. The federal
prosecutor in Michigan, in fact, has sent out letters politely asking the men to
make appointments.

But immigration lawyers, Arab-American groups and other critics say the
interviews, which the government has also portrayed as a dragnet for information
on terrorism, are by their nature threatening and coercive -- unconstitutionally
so.

Those contentions, some legal experts now say, were bolstered by the disclosure
this week of a memorandum sent to all regional offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service by Michael A. Pearson, the agency's executive associate
commissioner.

While the memorandum, dated last Friday, stated that the men "are not suspected
of any illegal activity" and that the interviews are "voluntary in nature," it
also said that some of the men could be held without bond on immigration charges
if federal investigators requested it.

Some legal experts say the threat of being detained, together with the
atmosphere of a vast investigation, may make these interviews far from
voluntary. If the men feel forced to cooperate, these experts say, their rights
may have been violated.

"Government has a right to ask questions," said Norman Dorsen, a former
president of the American Civil Liberties Union who is a professor at New York
University Law School. "But people have a right not to answer questions -- at
least they have until now. If the I.N.S. is going to lock them up, that puts
very strong pressure on people."

Government officials have said that the memorandum simply states that agents
need not close their eyes to violations.

But some critics said the document was a window on the government's true intent.
"I think the memo makes clear what many of us have suspected all along, which is
that these interviews are not voluntary," said Michael Avery, an expert on law
enforcement misconduct at Suffolk University Law School in Boston.

Even if the government's actions were unconstitutional, some experts said, it
was not clear how the interviews could be stopped. Individual immigrants could
fight decisions to hold them or lawyers could file a class-action suit. Either
way, it could be months or years before the courts would reach a definitive
conclusion.

Some lawyers say they plan to ask Congress to declare the interviews
unconstitutional and direct the Justice Department to stop them. But any such
effort would face political obstacles.

Law enforcement agents are permitted to ask for information. But several
provisions of the Constitution give people a right not to cooperate. The Fourth
Amendment forbids "unreasonable searches and seizures," and the Fifth Amendment
permits a person to refuse to speak.

Individuals can decide to waive their constitutional rights and cooperate with
investigators, but officials may not coerce them to do so.

The courts have recognized that people often feel nervous when approached by law
enforcement agents, so the approaches by themselves do not usually count legally
as coercive, said Michael C. Dorf, a constitutional law expert at Columbia
University.

"Pressure in the everyday sense is not the same thing as 'coercion' as the
Supreme Court has defined it," he said. Because the test for coercion is high,
he said, he was not convinced that a court would agree with the critics.

In a 1973 case, the Supreme Court ruled that consent to a search, for instance,
must be "voluntarily given, and not the result of duress or coercion, express or
implied." The same test would apply to interviews, experts say.

In a 1988 case, the Supreme Court outlined the circumstances when an individual
sought by police officers might feel compelled to comply with their
instructions. Those circumstances, the justices said, would lead a reasonable
person to conclude "that he was not at liberty to ignore the police presence and
go about his business."

Some critics of the interviews said few of the Muslim men were likely to feel
free to ignore a request for one. The critics said many of the government's
actions showed that it was putting intense pressure on immigrants. Yesterday,
Mr. Ashcroft said that the government would give visa assistance to immigrants
who provided information about terrorists as "responsible cooperators."

Some experts said any determination of whether the interviews were coercive
would have to be made case by case. Stephen Yale-Loehr, an immigration
specialist at the Cornell University Law School, said some of the men might feel
caught between the fear of detention if they did not cooperate and the fear of
providing information that might be used against them if they did.

"I think many immigrants," he said, "will be caught in an immigration trap."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INFORMANTS;
Immigrants Offered Incentives To Give Evidence on Terrorists

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1083 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29


Attorney General John Ashcroft today offered a deal to foreigners -- if they
provide useful evidence against terrorists, the administration will help them
remain in the United States and may even offer a fast track to American
citizenship.

"The people who have the courage to make the right choice deserve to be welcomed
as guests into our country and perhaps to one day become fellow citizens," Mr.
Ashcroft said as he described how he hoped to use a little-known seven-year-old
program to offer incentives for providing information on terrorism. Officials
said it was meant to represent a carrot to go along with the several other
recent law enforcement initiatives that were less popular among many immigrant
groups.

Civil liberties advocates were uncertain of its impact. Many lauded it as a
useful counter to the administration's previous initiatives, including plans to
question some 5,000 men in the country who have come from 26 Arab and Muslim
nations. Others said it was flawed because illegal immigrants might be reluctant
to come forward and make themselves known to the government.

Mr. Ashcroft said immigrants were in an especially good position to learn of
terrorist plots or witness unusual behavior among people in their community.

"Terrorist activity rarely goes entirely unnoticed," he told reporters.
"Noncitizens are often ideally situated to observe the precursors to, or early
stages of terrorist activity."

The initiative, which Mr. Ashcroft called the Responsible Cooperators Program,
was originally put in place in 1994 as part of a law aimed at reducing violent
crime. It expired in September, but a bipartisan bill renewing the program was
quickly enacted with little notice and President Bush signed it into law on Oct.
1.

In giving the program a public lift today, Mr. Ashcroft signaled that in light
of the terrorist investigation, the Justice Department was eager to find people
to consider for the law's special benefits.

The law allows the government to award a special classification to people who
provide useful information to law enforcement authorities. Aliens who obtain
that status may remain in the United States for three years even if they had
previously come to the United States illegally.

Mr. Ashcroft said the special status is also available to people outside the
country who go to American embassies with useful information and seek to enter
the United States. Although the special visa classification expires in three
years, Mr. Ashcroft said it could be a smoothed path to eventual citizenship.

"If the information that you provide is reliable and useful," he said, "we will
help you obtain a visa to reside in the United States and ultimately become a
United States citizen."

Paul Virtue, a Washington lawyer who is a former general counsel of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that although the program has been
in use since 1994, "What seems new is that it was never used in such a concerted
effort aimed at one crime."

Last year, there were 97 applications for the special status. Most were for help
in regular criminal investigations and only a handful involved aiding the
authorities in terrorist investigations.

One issue that seemed unclear was how an informant would be able to know if the
information was useful enough to qualify for the special status. The rules
provide that a Justice Department official has to make a recommendation, and the
attorney general and the secretary of state both have to agree the information
is worthy.

Mr. Ashcroft said the information does not have to lead to a conviction and may
even appear insignificant to the informant. "It might be a missing link in a
chain of evidence," he said urging aliens to "give it a try."

Jeanne Butterfield, the executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, described the move as a welcome step but added that immigrants
might be afraid to approach the authorities who they fear might deport them.
Ms. Butterfield, a Washington immigration lawyer, said several of her colleagues
"have already told me they wouldn't recommend this to a client."

Mr. Ashcroft said the program would be organized so that informants are not
asked their immigration status, and he added that their status would not be used
against them. But in trying to get reliable information, officials face the
difficulty that up until today they sent the message that immigration violations
would be dealt with harshly.

Lucas Guttentag, the director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants
Rights Project, said, "Attorney General Ashcroft now makes vague promises that
are completely inconsistent with the threat of arrest and detention for any
minor visa violation set forth in the existing immigration service memo
governing this investigation."

Nonetheless, Senator Edward M. Kennedy was one of several who applauded the
program. Mr. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who co-sponsored the bill, said
the program "can be an important part of the ongoing comprehensive effort to
track down and prosecute the terrorists responsible for the tragedy of Sept.
11."

David Cole, a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights and a critic of
the administration's anti-terrorist approach, said tonight that he thought the
program was a positive development.

"I think we're much more likely to get the assistance of the immigrant community
if we offer rewards rather than treat them as suspects based on their ethnicity
or country of origin."

But Mr. Cole cautioned that for the program to be effective, potential
informants would have to be assured that their visits to the authorities would
not be used against them. He said that in 1986, when amnesty was offered to
illegal immigrants who could demonstrate they had been here seven years,
Congress required that anybody who applied could not be deported on the basis of
the information they provided.

The law provides for the special status to be given to only 50 people a year who
help in a terrorist investigation. Another 200 who help in a criminal
investigation can be given the status. Mr. Ashcroft said that if the quota was
filled, the authorities would be able to help an informant by delaying any
deportation proceedings.

Denyce Sabagh, an immigration and civil liberties lawyer in Washington, said she
had successfully used the program in the past for a client who provided law
enforcement officials with valuable information. In exchange, she said, the
individual was able to remain in the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft said yesterday that foreigners in
the United States could gain legal status by providing facts on terrorists.
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INTERVIEWS;
University of Michigan Won't Cooperate in Federal Canvass

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words


The University of Michigan's police force has refused to help the federal
government in its effort to interview thousands of foreign students and others
in the United States on temporary visas, joining a handful of other law
enforcement agencies raising questions about the propriety of the vast canvass.

Julie Peterson, a spokeswoman for the university, said this week that its
department of public safety had declined a request from the United States
attorney's office for eastern Michigan to help interview an unspecified number
of students on the Ann Arbor campus in connection with the Sept. 11 attacks.

"The university cooperates fully with all local, state and federal law
enforcement investigations of suspected criminal activity," Ms. Peterson said.
"However, since none of these individuals identified for questioning are
suspected of or associated with criminal activity, we have decided that our
public safety personnel will not participate in the interviews."

Arab-American leaders, immigration lawyers and others have complained loudly
about the Justice Department's plan to question around 5,000 men ages 18 to 33
who have arrived here since Jan. 1, 2000, from countries suspected of links to
terrorism. On Thursday, the authorities in Corvallis, Ore., joined those in
nearby Portland in opting out of the interviews, saying they smacked of racial
profiling and could violate state law. The police in Eugene, Ore., are seeking
legal advice before deciding whether to participate.

Oregon's attorney general ruled on Tuesday that the Justice Department's
interviews, which the agency says are voluntary, do not violate state law. But
officials in Portland disagree, saying that questions about individuals'
passports, travels to Afghanistan and to American landmarks, educational
background and plans are inappropriate.

In Michigan, where some 700 of the 5,000 people on the Justice Department's list
are said to live, the United States attorney's office has sent letters asking
people to make appointments for interviews. Letters reportedly have been sent to
immigrants who arrived more than two years ago, some delivered to the wrong
addresses, including hotel rooms.

Officials at Michigan Technological University in Houghton said they cooperated
with F.B.I. requests regarding some of the university's foreign students, and
officials at Michigan State University in East Lansing said they would cooperate
with the federal government but not provide officers to conduct the interviews.

Ms. Peterson, of the University of Michigan, said campus police would follow up
if any of the students were suspected of a crime.

Daniel Oates, chief of police in Ann Arbor, has called a meeting with
Arab-American leaders and federal law enforcement officials for Monday, and
said, "I'm reserving judgment on the extent of my department's participation
until then."

The American Civil Liberties Union, one of several groups that have advised
immigrants to bring lawyers to the interviews, yesterday praised police
departments in Detroit; Oregon; Austin and Richardson, Tex.; San Francisco and
San Jose, Calif., for objecting to the Justice Department's project.

"History will honor these departments and their leaders for their principles,
professionalism and independence," Anthony Romero, the organization's director,
said in a statement, "and we urge their fellow leaders around the nation to join
them. Many of the people targeted for interviews come from countries where the
police regularly abuse their powers. These people are unlikely to know that they
have a right to refuse to answer questions when the authorities come knocking on
their doors."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Charity Gets Complicated

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 75 words


To the Editor:

You report (front page, Dec. 2) that "the flood of charity to the families of
the uniformed dead has obliterated the hope that America's donations will be
distributed in an even-handed way to all the survivors."

I would suggest that those most left out are the survivors of undocumented
immigrants.

It should be clear by now that we can find the money to help all the victims of
Sept. 11.

VERA SPOHR COHEN
Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 3, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Wide-Ranging Federal Sweep Changes Attitudes of Immigrants About U.S.

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1221 words

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., Dec. 3


They settled in tattered apartment buildings in the working-class suburbs of
northern Kentucky, thrilled to find fast-food jobs and to live among others who
had managed to escape the parched fields back home in Mauritania. They smiled
when they met their neighbors and worked on their English. A few managed to
convince themselves that they had pierced the barrier into the American
mainstream.

But then, after Sept. 11, some of those neighbors started making calls to the
F.B.I. One Mauritanian looked exactly like the hijacker Mohamed Atta, one caller
said, certain to have spotted a core terrorist cell. Another Mauritanian had
been taking flight lessons, a different tipster said. As the calls mounted, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation decided to act.

Within two weeks of the attacks, federal agents had knocked on the doors of
hundreds of Mauritanians in the river counties between Louisville and
Cincinnati, asking to see immigration papers. On Sept. 14, the F.B.I. and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested more than 40 people, nearly 10
percent of the largest Mauritanian community in the United States, and held them
overnight on immigration charges.

Most were released the next day, after having been closely questioned about any
prior knowledge of the attacks. Four remained in custody, including the
20-year-old son of a diplomatic family in Mauritania, on the northwestern coast
of Africa. They began a 40-day odyssey through the immigration detention system
that left them shaken and bitter.

"I used to like the United States, but now I don't understand it," said Cheikh
Melainine ould Belal, the diplomat's son who overstayed his tourist visa by six
weeks and wound up spending that same amount of time in a variety of jails from
Indiana to Louisiana.

"I was going to learn English, but now I don't want to ever speak it again," he
added, his Arabic words translated by a second cousin in the suburban apartment
that they share.

The Mauritanians were among more than 1,200 immigrants arrested by the
government since Sept. 11. Their case is striking because of the unusually broad
effects that their arrests have had on their isolated but tightly woven
community. With a relatively small number of other Muslims who live in Kentucky,
the Mauritanians instantly rushed to one another's aid, saying they felt
particularly vulnerable to suspicions of a terrorist crime to which no one from
their country has been connected.

Nonetheless, reflecting their eagerness to maintain good relations with their
adopted country, several Mauritanians said their treatment had been mild
compared with the repression in Africa.

Mr. ould Belal arrived in the United States in February and spoke so little
English that he was never able to understand the immigration officials who
locked him up and kept him moving. His mother, who is married to the first
counselor of the Mauritanian Embassy in Qatar, called the Mauritanian Embassy in
Washington, desperate for information about her son.

"She sees him as her baby," Kemal ould Mohamedou, the first counselor at the
embassy in Washington, said. "She knew he had nothing to do with the World Trade
Center bombing. So she did not understand why he would be in jail."

The embassy was not particularly sympathetic. Mr. ould Belal had, after all,
overstayed his visa, Mr. ould Mohamedou explained, and anyway it was
understandable that the police might want to arrest Arabs under the
circumstances.

"I understand why they were arresting our people," Mr. ould Mohamedou said.
"They had all those thousands of people dead in the buildings and on the planes.
At this time, you cannot expect them to be the good Americans that we are used
to them being, respectful of everyone's rights. The country was in a special
state. So we did not overreact or protest."

Although Mr. ould Belal and his friends remain unhappy over his treatment -- and
his impending deportation -- many other Mauritanians in the country said they
thought that a 40-day sentence for an immigration violation was mild compared
with the punishments in Mauritania. Boullah ould Sidiahmed, patriarch of the
Mauritanian community in Louisville, pointed out that when people were taken
away in Africa, they frequently did not return home.

"If an attack like this happened in other countries, they would be out there
killing people to find out what happened," said Mr. ould Sidiahmed, an
automobile dealer who was apparently the first Mauritanian to settle in the
Louisville region, in 1994.

Ould, meaning "son of," is part of most male Mauritanian names.

Mr. ould Sidiahmed said he was sorry for what had happened to Mr. ould Belal but
added that he did not believe that Mr. ould Belal was so upset with his
treatment that he would not remain in the United States if he could.

Three thousand Mauritanians are in the United States, according to embassy
figures, with all but few here legally. Most came to escape a country in which
more than half the population lives in poverty and in which tensions regularly
flare between the Arab Berber majority and the 30 percent of the population that
is black. Human rights organizations regularly criticize the continuing black
slavery in Mauritania.

Most Mauritanians in the Louisville region arrived after Mr. ould Sidiahmed, who
became a successful trader at automobile auctions, sending back word that the
region was tolerant and had plenty of jobs. By the time Mr. ould Belal arrived
this year to see family and friends, 400 to 500 Mauritanians were in the region,
many working illegally at low wages.

Mr. ould Belal said he did not know why he and three others had been singled out
by the I.N.S. for detention when others were let go. His immigration lawyer,
Dennis Clare, said he had been told by an F.B.I. agent that a tipster had
reported that Mr. ould Belal had gone to flight school, which was not true.

Another possible explanation is the number of entry stamps from Qatar on his
passport, obtained when traveling with his family to their post there, another
subject that the F.B.I. also asked about at length. Officials of the immigration
and investigation agencies have declined to comment on the Mauritanian cases in
detail, except to say they were among many aliens in the sweep who were found to
have immigration violations.

"We are moving cautiously before releasing on bond any individual arrested in
connection with this investigation," said Karen Kraushaar, a spokeswoman for the
I.N.S.

Mr. Clare said his client, along with three other Mauritanians, had been moved
from a detention center in nearby New Albany, Ind., to Bowling Green, Ky., then
to Memphis and then to the federal detention center at Oakdale, La. Usually Mr.
ould Belal did not know where he was or where he was going, and it often took
Mr. Clare several days to find him.

The three others being held face deportation, too.

Mr. ould Belal said that the authorities had not mistreated him but that even
after being released on Oct. 22 he was never told why he had been held or why he
was allowed to go free on $2,000 bond. He agreed to leave the country as a
condition of his release, and he plans to leave in a few weeks with a good deal
less reluctance than he would have had before.

"They don't apologize to me," he said. "But it doesn't matter now. I don't want
to be here anymore anyway."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. ould Belal, who in 40 days was in detention centers in
Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee and Louisiana, plans to leave the United States.
(Photographs by David Firestone/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE HOLY LAND FOUNDATION;
Paterson Again Finds Itself With Links to Sept. 11

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J., Dec. 4


For nearly a decade, the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development was a
quiet fixture on the flourishing strip of immigrant-run businesses in this
city's Middle Eastern community.

On Thursdays, when the food pantry opened, 40 or 50 people would amble in and
emerge a few minutes later carrying bags filled with milk, beans, rice, cereal
and other provisions.

The thrift shop sold books, crafts and clothing, with the promise that proceeds
would help poor and homeless Palestinians in troubled areas of the Middle East.
Inside the squat brick building on East Railroad Avenue, the Holy Land
Foundation's employees used standard and government-approved methods of raising
money: sending out direct mail, placing containers at checkout counters in shops
and passing a basket around in several of Paterson's 12 mosques.

"This foundation was run by good people," said Muhammad Qat, imam of the Islamic
Center of Passaic County in Paterson, a mosque attended primarily by Palestinian
immigrants. "They helped a lot of people," the imam said. "They followed
American law."

But that image of benign charity was thrown into question this week when the
Bush administration shut the group's offices, saying it was a fund-raising front
for Hamas, a militant Palestinian group. During the course of an eight-year
investigation, federal agents say, they found documents indicating that Holy
Land Foundation funds were used to pay pensions to the survivors of suicide
bombers, who were referred to as martyrs in some of the group's solicitations.
The F.B.I. also says that Mousa Abu Marzook, the head of Hamas's political
bureau, had close ties to the organization and that as early as 1993 federal
agents, using electronic eavesdropping devices, had overheard senior Hamas
leaders and Holy Land Foundation officials discussing a plan to use donations
for terrorist operations.

After Hamas took responsibility for suicide bombings last week in Israel,
federal officials seized nearly $2 million of the foundation's assets and closed
its office here and its headquarters in Richardson, Tex.

The incident is not the first time that Paterson -- a city of 140,000 of whom
20,000 trace their roots to the Middle East -- has found itself linked to
terrorist activity.

In October, federal agents learned that three of the suspected hijackers had
lived for at least six months in Paterson, about a mile from the Holy Land
Foundation, while planning the attacks.

There is no evidence, however, that the suspects had any contact with the
foundation.

City officials, local police and prosecutors all said they had never received a
complaint about the Holy Land Foundation. But the mere suggestion that Paterson
had been a haven to terrorists and their sympathizers has nonetheless made some
residents fearful and angry.

Pamela Creo, a resident of Clifton who was shopping at a farmers' market in
Paterson today, said the succession of news reports had made her wary of all
Middle Easterners.

"I think the initiative needs to be taken to change our immigration laws," she
said. "I don't care if that sounds prejudiced or not."

"Look around here," she added, pointing to shoppers and merchants, most of whom
appeared to be of African or Middle Eastern descent. "Who's the local American
here? I'm the only one."

To some Paterson residents, though, the raid on the Holy Land Foundation only
heightened the sense that the federal government and many Americans fail to
understand the complexity of the issue and have become too quick to believe the
worst about Muslims since Sept. 11.

Mohammed Younes, president of the American Muslim Union, said he opposed
terrorism and would not donate directly to Hamas because "they are killers." But
he said it would be inhumane to deprive Palestinian orphans of charitable aid
simply because their fathers held extreme political views.

When asked whether the promise of such charity was not helping Palestinian
terrorists recruit suicide bombers, Mr. Younes said it was hypocritical of the
United States government to condemn Hamas without also criticizing Israel.

"I put myself in the Palestinians' shoes, the suffering, the pain, the hunger,"
said Mr. Younes, an Egyptian. "I don't know what I would do. Are they dogs? Are
they garbage? I don't want to see anyone killed. But you can't be selective."

Others said they found it hard to judge the justice of the government's action.

"If somebody did wrong," Mohamed Kourani said, the authorities "have a right to
catch him." And his friend, Mahmet Akat, owner of the Sahara Restaurant Pizza
and Bakery, was asked if he thought the foundation had been supporting terrorist
organizations.

"Maybe yes, maybe no," he replied. "How do you know? We're just neighbors."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: United States Customs agents stood guard yesterday as movers
carried television sets and other appliances from the Paterson, N.J., office of
the Holy Land Foundation. The Bush administration shut the office down, saying
it was a fund-raising front for Hamas, a Palestinian militant group. (Associated
Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 7, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

FAMILY FARE

BYLINE:  By Laurel Graeber

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 903 words


Firing Up 'The Nutcracker'

When Marie sets off on her whirlwind journey in "The Nutcracker," she doesn't
have immigration in mind. But in the choreographer Michael Mao's version, the
heroine doesn't go to the Land of Sweets. Her final destination is a different
land of hopes and dreams: America.

Mr. Mao's "Firecracker," which is to have its world premiere this weekend at
Purchase College, was conceived as a Chinese answer to "The Nutcracker." But it
can also be seen as a Jewish one, or that of any person who is compelled to
leave home and put down roots in a foreign country.

"Any time there's a journey and a dream, something deep inside is waiting to
break out," Mr. Mao said. "This story was a good metaphor."

"Firecracker," which features sets by Ming Cho Lee and a narration written by
Marcelle Clements and delivered by the actor B. D. Wong, is set in 1937 in
Shanghai, the Chinese city Mr. Mao left when he was 5. His young protagonists,
Tiny and her brother, Junior, are twins of a Chinese mother and a Jewish father.

At an international party involving a wide variety of dance styles, Tiny's gift
is not a nutcracker but a firecracker, a Chinese symbol of celebration. In her
dream, the firecracker becomes the Fire Prince, who takes the children to the
four corners of the world. On awakening, they and their family and friends go on
a real voyage, which ends in New York.

"It's really a story about the human quest for freedom and safety," Mr. Mao
said.

His inspiration came from a trip to Shanghai, when he learned more about its
role in the 1930's as a temporary safe haven for Jews. Using, he says, about 40
percent of Tchaikovsky's score, he worked with Jonathan Faiman, who
reorchestrated the work, composed new music and added a Sephardic undercurrent.
Other ethnic elements include a lion dance, a hula and Mongolian singing that
turned out to be in the same key as Tchaikovsky's Arabian dance.

Mr. Mao and Mr. Faiman even found patriotic music that fit: Dudley Buck's
"Festival Overture," based on "The Star-Spangled Banner." "Dudley Buck mandated
that the last stanza was to be sung by the audience," Mr. Mao said. "Of course,
this was all planned before Sept. 11, but under the circumstances, it's quite
appropriate."

"Firecracker," tomorrow at 1 and 6 p.m. and Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Performing
Arts Center at Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, New York,
(914) 251-6200. Tickets: $28 to $35.

Candles and Handel

The 92nd Street Y has discovered that Handel, whose "Messiah" is played so often
at Christmas, is also the ideal composer for Hanukkah. While working on the
world premiere of Handel's "Esther" in Hebrew, Hanna Arie-Gaifman, the director
of the Y's Tisch Center for the Arts, thought of his "Judas Maccabaeus." This
oratorio celebrates the ancient victory at the heart of the holiday: that of
Judah and the Maccabees over the Syrian-Greeks, who did not allow them to
practice Judaism.

"So I said, 'Let's take excerpts that are suitable for children and intersperse
them with the story of the miracle of the light," Ms. Arie-Gaifman said. "So
kids can get the idea of taking back the religion and hear some good music,
too."

The result will be a 50-minute family concert on Sunday with commentary by the
poet Karl Kirchwey, who describes how a tiny amount of oil miraculously burned
in the Jerusalem temple for eight days. Fritz Weaver will narrate, while the
Young People's Chorus of New York City and the Bach Society of Columbia
University will perform.

Before the event, families can take part in a workshop to make menorahs,
dreidels, latke plates and Hanukkah cards. "We will light the first candle at
the end of the concert," Ms. Arie-Gaifman said, "so it will be a great first
night of Hanukkah."

Hanukkah workshop, Sunday at 1:30 p.m., and "Judas Maccabaeus" concert, at 3
p.m., at the 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212 415-5500. Workshop: $5.
Concert: $25.

The Spell of Cinderella

Every child knows that "Cinderella" has magic. How else would the heroine get a
coach and footmen, not to mention a ball dress? In "Cinderella and the Magic
Prince," though, that wizardry is just small potatoes (or small pumpkins). Here,
Cinderella levitates, drinks from a floating glass and even turns her
stepmother's umbrella into a wire scarf rack.

Such sleight of hand comes courtesy of Arnie Kolodner, a k a Lord Boxington (the
royal magician), a k a the Magic Prince. Mr. Kolodner, a magician, has brought
his own bag of tricks to the story, and although he has included a fairy
godmother -- a little girl from the audience -- he is the wizard in charge.

In this 50-minute version from the Melting Pot Theater Company, Mr. Kolodner and
Alice Bergman (Cinderella) ask the children to shout out responses and to play
everything from Cinderella's mice to the hopeful ladies trying on the glass
slipper.

Cinderella fans ages 3 to 8 are likely to be as charmed as the guests at the
ball. Parents, though, may be dismayed by the less than magical attempt to make
their cash disappear by selling trick scarves in the lobby for $10 apiece. For
that expense, you might as well see two and a half hours of Harry Potter.

"Cinderella and the Magic Prince," through Dec. 30 at the McGinn/Cazale Theater
(above the Promenade Theater), 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street. Saturdays and
Sundays at 11 a.m. and Dec. 27 and 28 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Tickets: $12.
Reservations: (212) 279-4200.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stacy Yoshioka and Andrij Cybyk in Michael Mao's "Firecracker."
(Carol Rosegg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 9, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
Through a Prism of a Latin Past

BYLINE:  By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1135 words


THE novelist Isabel Allende was recently asked what came to mind when she heard
the date Sept. 11. Without hesitation, Ms. Allende said she thought of Chile,
her native land, and what happened there on Sept. 11, 1973. That was the day the
military toppled the democratically elected government of Salvador Allende,
causing his death. Ms. Allende, a second cousin of Mr. Allende, fled soon after.

That two barbaric events in the Americas happened on the same date is an eerie
coincidence that startles Ms. Allende and other Latinos now living in the United
States. But what resonates with many is not so much that violence has chased
them to a new, democratic country. Instead, they are dreading what could come
after -- and in their homelands often did.

Latino immigrants -- Chileans, Peruvians, Argentines, Uruguayans, Bolivians,
Panamanians, Cubans, Venezuelans, Hondurans, Salvadorans, Guatemalans,
Dominicans and Nicaraguans -- fled countries where ardent nationalism was often
one step toward an increasingly authoritarian government; and where the
military, at one point or other, ruled at will. Ideologies of the right and left
were able to trump democracy repeatedly in the 20th century.

Apart from economics, this is a crucial reason that many Latinos have emigrated
to the United States, a country where, they know, an Army general would not
attempt a coup d'etat, nor would citizens allow it. In fact, the fastest rate of
growth among Latino immigrants in the last decade was not among Mexicans, as in
the past, but among Central and South Americans, who suffered the brunt of the
hemisphere's most repressive regimes and bloody civil wars in the last three
decades. Their numbers nearly doubled to 10 million by the year 2000, the Census
shows.

With a growing population of 35 million, Latinos will soon be the largest
minority in America. Many of them are just now learning about their new home and
its government, and view Washington's recent actions through the prism of their
past. From the lands they fled, they know about men in uniforms detaining people
for no apparent reason. They know about government officials secretly
wiretapping conversations, interrogating "suspicious" college students and
intimidating professors who question the system. They know about authorities
instilling fear in a segment of the population for the good of the country.

Now, safe in cities in California, New Jersey and Florida, many Latinos are
reading in the morning papers stories that resonate in uncomfortable ways. Their
common and often recent experience of violence in their native lands allows them
to view what has happened here since Sept. 11 in a harsher light than many other
Americans do.

They remain critical of any abuse of power or attempt at censorship from those
who think a united, unquestioning country makes a nation stronger. They know,
they say, because they have lived it. And though they are careful not to equate
the brutality of Latin American dictatorships to the Bush administration's
measures to restrict civil liberties, they remain vigilant to the warning signs.

In the last two months, the administration has sought increased power to
wiretap, search and detain immigrants. President Bush issued an order approving
the use of military tribunals to try suspected terrorists. More than 1,000
people have been detained. And it was revealed last week that the Immigration
and Naturalization Service can now hold immigrants it deems dangerous, even
after a judge orders their release.

"Violence engenders paranoia, and paranoia can change the culture of a country,"
said Tomas Eloy Martinez, a writer who fled his native Argentina in 1975 after a
death threat, and did not return until 1984, shortly after democracy was
reinstated.

In Argentina, like many countries in Latin America, dictatorial and democratic
governments succeeded each other for much of the last century. The erosion of
civil liberties reached a critical point in 1976, when a junta took over and
initiated the "dirty war." By 1980, the Inter-American Human Rights Commission
documented the abduction and disappearance of more than 6,000 people in
Argentina.

"Censorship and erosion of liberties are a destructive spiral that can lead to a
radical change in any country," said Mr. Martinez, who now directs the Latin
American program at Rutgers University. "Few countries can recover from that."

Unlike most countries in the hemisphere, the United States has the means to
guard against any threat to individual freedoms. Already, some members of
Congress question the administration's actions, and hearings were held last
week. Wednesday, the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit against the
Justice Department, charging its detentions violated the Constitution and
federal law; other groups have said they are prepared to challenge recent
measures. The press is examining the government in ways not always possible --
or safe -- in Latin America.

Anthony D. Romero, the new executive director of the A.C.L.U., is focused on the
impact new laws will have on immigrants. And no group, he said, with the
exception of those from Arab countries, will suffer more than Latinos. This is
true not just in terms of detentions but also in the increasing talk about
placing restrictions on immigration.

"Unfortunately, the war against terrorism is turning into the war against
immigrants," he said. "The impact on the Latino community can be devastating.
What we are doing is undercutting the basic system of checks and balances. We
are putting aside the power of the judicial branch to oversee the powers of the
executive branch. That's precisely what has happened in Latin America."

IN Cuba, for example, Fidel Castro chipped away at civil liberties in 1959, by
claiming that threat of attack from the United States forced his government to
take extreme measures. Eventually, in a speech, Mr. Castro delivered his coup de
grace, "Elecciones, para que?" -- "Elections, what for?"

Mabel Morana, a Uruguayan professor who fled in 1975 and now teaches Hispanic
languages and literatures at the University of Pittsburgh, experienced a similar
pattern from the right. The military seized power in Uruguay in 1973 and held it
for 12 years, allegedly protecting the country against leftist guerrillas.

Professor Morana said she worries that a strong nationalistic discourse -- the
beginnings of which she says are evident in the constant display of American
flags and patriotic slogans -- can help generate support for a government that
will then feel empowered to curtail individual liberties.

"Those of us who have lived through it understand that fear is often manipulated
to get backing," she said. "An outsized sense of nationalism is not the answer
to fear. The answer is to keep freedom alive, and a relentless, critical eye."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A year after peace accords, Guatemalan soldiers took part in a
the nation's first peaceful National Army Day, on June 30, 1997. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 11, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: TERROR CELLS;
North Africans in Europe Said to Preach War, Enlisting Young Immigrants

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: TUNIS


The young man left his home here with the same dreams that have propelled
thousands of Tunisians across the Mediterranean to Italy: a job, adventure, a
taste of freedom.

After a few years of scraping by with tough day jobs, he found a bigger dream:
to be a soldier of God, righting the wrongs perpetrated against Muslims across
the world.

The young man found Muhammad Saidani, a Tunisian emigre who led prayers at a
mosque in Bologna, who infused him with a sense of mission and sent him, the man
said later, to a terrorist training camp in Afghanistan run by Al Qaeda.

"Saidani always talked about the purity of our religion and he made a cell
around him," the young man told Tunisian security officials four years ago,
after he was arrested on a trip home and charged with membership in a terrorist
group. "We studied the press, the situation in Arab countries and organizing
jihad."

Tunisian authorities have since seized and convicted Mr. Saidani, 35, who was
deported from Italy earlier this year. He may not have been a significant player
in Al Qaeda, but Tunisian authorities considered him an important link in a
loose network of North African immigrants in Europe inspired by Osama bin Laden.

Few details about Mr. Saidani have been released, other than his rather typical
trajectory, which sent him to Italy in 1988, at age 22, apparently in an attempt
to escape the poverty and political tumult at home.

But the story of the young men who followed him provides a case study of how
extremists burrowed into Western societies and espoused a violent anti-Western
vision of Islam that would have led to jail in their home countries.

Over the past year, investigators have dismantled a number of suspected terror
cells dominated by first- and second-generation North African immigrants. Some
were veterans of Islamist movements in their own countries and left in the great
exodus in the late 1980's, when Arab governments in Tunisia, Algeria and
elsewhere began to crack down on fundamentalists.

In other cases, the young recruits appear to have drifted into militancy after
leaving home, drawn to clandestine knots of fellow immigrants by their sense of
alienation.

"In the European mosques, they tell these people they just want a return to
Islamic tradition," said Amami Abdullah, a Tunisian who has written extensively
on Islamic political movements. "But it's a Trojan horse, a way of recruiting.
What they are really peddling is a rejection of Western culture."

Dozens of Tunisians, Algerians, Moroccans and Libyans have been arrested
recently on charges of forging and stealing passports, arms trafficking,
possession of explosives and plotting deadly bomb and chemical attacks against
Western targets.

In California this year, an Algerian, Ahmed Ressam, was convicted of a plot to
bomb Los Angeles International Airport. In Europe, North Africans have been
charged with planning to blow up the United States Embassy in Paris and
attacking a busy Christmas market in Strasbourg, France. Several of those
arrested have also been accused of providing logistical support to the Sept. 11
hijackers.

Although the suspects had no direct contact with Mr. bin Laden, as far as the
investigators know, they considered themselves part of his declared war on
Christians and Jews. As an Algerian man put it in one phone call recorded by the
Italian police, "Now we are mujahedeen muhajirun," or immigrant holy warriors.

The predominance of Tunisians, Algerians, Moroccans and Libyans among the
suspects is due partly to demographics. North Africans account for the largest
number of immigrants in Italy, Spain and France. But events in their homelands
and the tremors in the Muslim world may have played a role in their
radicalization. Around the time that Mr. Saidani was first recruiting young
immigrants for his jihad classes, Muslims were under siege in Bosnia. The
Muslims of Chechnya were starting their uprising against Russia. During the
Persian Gulf war, American troops settled into bases in Saudi Arabia, prompting
Saudi dissidents like Mr. bin Laden to question the legitimacy of the ruling
family. In Egypt, Islamic militants assassinated intellectuals and officials of
a government they thought too secular.

The fundamentalist convulsions touched North Africa as well, prompting a harsh
backlash from security forces.

Algeria plunged into civil war in 1992, after the military canceled
parliamentary elections when it seemed certain Islamic militants would win. The
fighting has continued, claiming an estimated 100,000 lives.

Tunisia also faced down a domestic challenge from a homegrown Islamist movement.
The government jailed thousands of suspected fundamentalists, locked its mosques
(except for prayers) and passed laws that make it a crime for any Tunisian to
incite religious fanaticism.

"You can be a fundamentalist," said Sadok Chaabane, the former minister of
justice who helped draft the laws. "You can wear a beard. But the moment you
begin to draw in other people, write in the press, hold meetings or incite
people, that's it."

That approach may sound harsh, he acknowledged. But he offered no apologies.
"When we started, we had 1,000 people in the prisons," he said. "But it's better
to have that than 100,000 dead, like in Algeria."

Human rights groups have consistently criticized Tunisia for its harsh treatment
of Islamists, accusing the government of exploiting the threat of extremism to
suppress moderate as well as militant critics.

Others said Tunisia has used too broad a definition of terrorism to lock up its
citizens.

"There are people who are not with Osama bin Laden, but who went to Bosnia and
other places out of conviction," said Samir Ben Amor, a lawyer in Tunis who
represented Mr. Saidani as well as the young man who was arrested on his return
to Tunisia in 1997.

But some Tunisians say people like Mr. Saidani and his disciples were part of a
multilayered terror organization, that he was the link in Italy to more senior
cell leaders like Sami Ben Khamais Essid, who was arrested in Italy in April
after the police reported that their wiretaps had picked up his conversations
about how to prepare chemical attacks.

Mr. Essid, according to investigators in Europe, was a confidant of Tarek
Maaroufi, a Tunisian dissident with Belgian citizenship who maintained contacts
with Mr. bin Laden's deputies in Afghanistan. Mr. Maaroufi is now the subject of
a warrant issued by Italian investigators.

Tunisian officials thus say they feel even more vindicated in their approach
toward Islamists after Sept. 11. "We've been telling people since the 80's about
Afghanistan as a nest of terrorists," said Habib Ben Yahia, the foreign
minister. "But people didn't want to listen because they were confusing those
terrorists with defenders of human rights and democracy."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 12, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INTERVIEWS;
200 Muslims Are Sought In Michigan

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 11


Federal and local investigators began searching today for more than 200 young
foreign men believed to be living in the Detroit area who failed to respond to
letters sent last month inviting them to schedule interviews with law
enforcement officials in connection with the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

After agreeing to send the letters to appease the nation's largest Arab-American
community, the authorities here now plan to adopt tactics similar to those of
their counterparts across the nation. The officials are dialing phones and
knocking on doors in hopes of contacting a total of about 5,000 men ages 18 to
33 who have arrived here on temporary visas in the last two years from countries
suspected of links to terrorism.

The switch has infuriated immigration lawyers and Arab and Muslim leaders here,
who say many of those who ignored the letters have visa violations and fear
being arrested.

"It confirms my suspicion that this wasn't really voluntary after all," said
Doraid Elder, a lawyer who represents at least nine people who have submitted to
the interviews. "It's very intimidating. People probably didn't respond because
they're afraid or because they didn't want to conduct the interview. When you
have the federal government knocking at their door, now, holy cow, they're going
to really be afraid."

Jeffrey Collins, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of
Michigan, said this morning that 242 of the 503 people who were sent letters on
Nov. 26 had set up interviews, and five others had responded to the letters but
declined to meet with the authorities. An additional 104 letters were returned
because of incorrect addresses, leaving 152 people who have presumably received
the letters but ignored them.

Mr. Collins, who is responsible for the largest chunk of the Justice
Department's list of 5,000 people, said investigators would "make every attempt
to contact those individuals who no longer reside at the addresses the letters
were originally sent to" and "attempt to personally contact those who have not
yet responded."

"Those individuals who have been interviewed have been very cooperative, and the
agents and officers conducting the interviews have been extremely professional,"
he said at a brief news conference, where he refused to take questions. "This
office has received no complaints regarding the conduct of the interviews."

Mr. Collins has said that he is not searching for immigration violations but
that any violations discovered during the interview process would be reported to
immigration service.

Hussein Ibish, a spokesman for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee
in Washington, said today's announcement in Detroit suggested that last month's
letter "was a cosmetic device."

"What happens if the door gets slammed in their face? Is that the end of the
issue?" Mr. Ibish asked about the plan to send officers out into the community
to contact people. "I find the mantra of protestation that this is all voluntary
to be unconvincing. It doesn't look genuinely voluntary to me. It does look
coercive to me."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 12, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: INDICTMENTS;
69 Are Accused of Lying to Get Airport Jobs

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 292 words


The federal government announced indictments yesterday of 69 workers, most of
them immigrants, at Salt Lake International Airport, accusing them of providing
false information or documents to obtain security passes for their jobs.

The 69 workers are employed by private companies that provide services like
screening baggage, food services and the fueling, cleaning or maintenance of
aircraft.

"This is an effort to prevent and disrupt potential opportunities for trouble at
the airport," said Paul M. Warner, the United States attorney for Utah. He said
there was no evidence that any of those indicted had ties to terrorism.

Government officials investigated 9,000 Salt Lake City airport workers with
security passes and found that 272 of them had provided false information to get
them. About 200 of those workers will be subject to deportation proceedings,
investigators said.

The government decided to seek indictment of the other 69 because of their
high-level security clearances, the investigators added. Those clearances
allowed access to airplanes, runways and cargo areas.

Federal officials said 63 of the indicted workers were immigrants who had
provided false immigration information, including fraudulent Social Security
cards. The other six were American citizens who are accused of supplying false
information about their criminal records.

Officials said they believed that all the immigrants charged were in the country
illegally. Three of those charged are security screeners.

Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta said that the indictments were part
of increased federal oversight of airport security.

Most of those indicted were charged with three to five counts, with each count
carrying maximum sentences of 5 to 10 years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Hackensack: State Relaxes License Restrictions

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 91 words


The state is dropping a regulation that made it more difficult for legal
immigrants who are not American citizens to obtain driver's licenses. Last
month, New Jersey Motor Vehicle Services began requiring these immigrants to
apply for licenses and state identification cards at only four regional service
centers. They can now apply at other centers. Critics of the move had complained
that only one of the service centers, in Wayne, is in northern New Jersey, where
many immigrants live. The Wayne center had lines spilling into the parking lot.







URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 18, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
U.S. Holds Suspect With Ties To Group Linked to Terror Aid

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 17


A Muslim leader in Ann Arbor, Mich., who has connections to an international
relief agency whose assets were recently frozen by the government on accusations
of contributing to terrorist activity is being held on immigration charges, his
family said today.

The leader, Rabih Haddad, is a native of Lebanon and a board member of the
agency, the Global Relief Foundation, which is based in Bridgeview, Ill. Mr.
Haddad was arrested in his home in Ann Arbor on Friday afternoon by agents of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, his wife said.

Greg Palmore, a spokesman for the immigration service here, said the agency "can
neither confirm nor deny" that Mr. Haddad is being held.

But Salma al-Rushaid, Mr. Haddad's wife, said she had been told he was being
detained over immigration violations. Mr. Haddad's tourist visa has expired, but
he had applied for permanent resident status and that application was pending,
Ms. Rushaid said.

Mr. Haddad was detained on the same day that federal agents raided the
foundation's offices. No arrests were made in connection with that raid, but the
group was placed on a list of organizations suspected of financing terrorism.

Ms. Rushaid said she knew of no connection between either her husband or the
Global Relief Foundation and any terrorist activity.

"No, no, no -- there is no connection whatsoever," she said. "They have been
looked at. They have always been cooperative."

Ms. Rushaid said her husband's arrest, in front of their four children ages 3,
7, 9 and 11, was particularly upsetting coming on the day before Eid al-Fitr, a
feast day celebrating the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.

"You have to understand, it's like taking him away on the day before Christmas,"
she said.

Mr. Haddad was a member of the Muslim Community Organization and represented the
group at public meetings since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

"He was outspoken against what he called the perversion of Islam by the
terrorists," said Michael Steinberg, legal director for the Michigan branch of
the American Civil Liberties Union. Mr. Steinberg said the group might become
involved in the case.

Ms. Rushaid said her husband was being held in the rural Monroe County Jail
south of Detroit. She said he "is being treated well, but no one has said
anything to him." She noted that her husband had been able to telephone her.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 19, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DETENTIONS;
Ex-Lawmaker From Jordan Is Held in Chicago

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 18


A retired Jordanian lawmaker who was here to lead local Muslims in a celebration
to mark the end of Ramadan is being held on immigration charges.

The former official, Sheik Dib Aneef Shihadeh, is being detained on accusations
that his visa was revoked on Nov. 21, 2000, said Mr. Shihadeh's lawyer, Zuhair
Nubani.

Mr. Nubani said Sheik Shihadeh, who is 75, entered the United States assuming
his visa was valid.

"He's been in and out of the U.S. many times over the last few years," Mr Nubani
said. "He had no idea there was a problem. He came in legally, and if there was
a problem, he should have been told about it immediately and sent on the next
plane back. You can't tell me that they can read the license plates of cars in
Afghanistan, but they missed someone's expired visa."

Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service took Sheik Shihadeh, who
arrived in Chicago on Nov. 19, into custody on Thursday at an apartment in
Chicago where he was staying.

Marilu Cabrera, a spokeswoman for the immigration service here, said Mr.
Shihadeh was charged with immigration violations on Monday. Ms. Cabrera said he
was originally held on a $15,000 bond on Friday, but is now being held without
bond. She would not comment on the change.

Mr. Nubani said that when he tried to post bond for his client on Friday,
immigration services officials told him "that they had received more
information" and that Mr. Shihadeh would remain in custody in Chicago.

Mr. Shihadeh was here to lead about 6,000 Muslims from the Chicago area in the
celebration of Id al-Fitr, a feast day marking the end of the holy month of
Ramadan, at the Islamic Community Center in Chicago. The center invited the
sheik to lead prayers for Sunday's celebration. Mohammed Salih, a board member
of the center, said the community was devastated by the sheik's detention.

"People started wondering who would be next," Mr. Salih said.

Mr. Nubani said Sheik Shihadeh had been given notice to appear before an
immigration judge, but no date or judge had been assigned.

The sheik was the second prominent Muslim detained in the Midwest last week. In
Ann Arbor, Mich., Rabih Haddad, the co-founder of the Global Relief Foundation,
was arrested on Friday in his home by federal officials for an alleged
immigration violation, his family and lawyers said.

The immigration service would not comment on Mr. Haddad, but the government has
said that the foundation, which is based in Illinois, is suspected of financing
terrorism.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 20, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Central Islip: Gang Members Plead Guilty

BYLINE:  By Bruce Lambert (NYT) (Compiled by Yilu Zhao)

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 62 words


After a 14-month spree of robbery, assault and murder in a rivalry between two
gangs of immigrants, 10 members of Salvadorans With Pride have pleaded guilty to
federal charges.

Two men from the rival MS-13 gang were killed. Seven people pleaded guilty on
Tuesday in federal court here; three pleaded earlier. After prison, the 10 will
be deported.   Bruce Lambert (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INTERVIEWS;
Sweep of Foreign Men Half-Finished as Deadline Passes

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 947 words


As the Justice Department's deadline for interviewing 5,146 young, foreign men
in connection with the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks passed yesterday, officials
said that Washington had so far received information on about half of those
wanted for questioning and that the canvass had turned up at least two leads.

It appears that hundreds of the people on the list have not been found, in some
cases because they have returned home.

A senior Justice official who is working on the project said no one had been
arrested or detained as a result of the interviews. But a law enforcement
official involved in the effort in Boston said that one man who had overstayed
his visa had been referred to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The Justice official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that in
addition to the two tips and a third potential lead, the canvass had yielded as
many as 10 sources who believed they might have useful information in the future
and who had agreed to provide it.

It remains unclear how many interviews have been completed. The entries in the
agency's main database include both reports on interviews and notifications that
a subject cannot be found. And several jurisdictions have yet to finish their
interviews or file reports.

In central Florida, the United States attorney's office has met with 450 of the
700 people sought and is looking for the rest. In Richardson, Tex., the police
have spent the month compiling phone numbers for their 21 interviewees and plan
to begin contacting them after Jan. 1. In northern Indiana, officials finished
their 39 interviews two weeks ago.

In the Detroit area, home to the nation's largest concentration of people from
the Middle East, the United States attorney's office said the original list of
more than 500 was whittled to 466 because of duplications. So far, 296
interviews have been arranged, with at least 161 conducted. Seven people have
declined interviews, 26 have left the country, 33 have moved out of the area,
and 13 cannot be found. The status of the remaining 91 men was unclear.

"It's a big task," said Kathy Colvin, spokeswoman for the United States
attorney's office in northern Texas, where the list tops 300. "When we're done,
we're done."

The Justice Department official said that "from an investigative standpoint" the
interviews had been productive. He said the deadline had been extended for any
jurisdiction that was not finished.

"There's nothing more important to the prevention of terrorism than developing
contacts in the community," he said.

Because the list was compiled based on national origin, age and other personal
characteristics rather than on suspected knowledge of terrorism, the interview
project has raised concern among civil libertarians, immigration lawyers, Arab
leaders and even local law enforcement agencies, some of which declined to
participate.

"It sent a chill through these communities," said Jeanne Butterfield, director
of the American Immigration Lawyers' Association. "Whatever tidbits they found
need to be weighed against that impact."

In a statement yesterday, Attorney General John Ashcroft, who ordered the
interviews with a Nov. 9 memorandum to the 94 United States attorneys, offered
his "sincerest thanks" to those who agreed to talk. "These individuals made a
choice to be responsible for helping save lives instead of remaining silent
against evil," Mr. Ashcroft said.

Investigators from scores of local, state and federal law enforcement agencies
helped conduct the interviews of men ages 18 to 33 who had arrived in the United
States over the last two years from countries with suspected links to terrorism.

In Detroit and Chicago, officials sent letters inviting the men to make
appointments, but in most of the country, agents stopped by homes or offices
unannounced. Most of the interviews relied on 10 pages of questions provided by
the Justice Department, including "Have you ever visited Afghanistan?" and "Do
you know anyone who has been to a terrorist training camp?"

Officials around the country said they were not surprised that hundreds, or even
thousands, of the men could not be found. Some addresses the men had provided on
visa documents were for hotels, or included misspelled cities and streets. In
many cases, the men had moved, and officers passed their names to different
jurisdictions for a second try.

"I'm getting calls from Michigan, and we're calling California," said Francis
Schmitz, leader of the antiterrorism task force in Wisconsin's Eastern District,
where there were initially 40 people on the list. "It's bouncing all over."

The Justice official said that if local agents could not track someone down, his
name would be dropped.

"We don't want them to do a top 10 fugitive investigation, because these people
aren't fugitives," he said. "Since I don't think they're terrorists, I think
they're witnesses or potential sources of information, I'm not worried about
them."

Very few people declined to talk, officials said. Some even urged investigators
to contact their relatives, said Steve Cole, a spokesman for the United States
attorney in Florida's Middle District.

Gerald T. Leone Jr., coordinator of Massachusetts' antiterrorism task force,
said, "By and large, everybody was agreeable."

But Louis Massery, president of the Middle Eastern Lawyers Association in
Boston, criticized the project as an effort to make up for "the failure of the
F.B.I. to do investigative work following the attack on the World Trade Center
in 1993."

"The F.B.I. did a great job investigating the Mafia, by using good investigative
techniques," Mr. Massery said. "They didn't interview everyone with Italian
surnames."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wissam Safa, left, who came from Lebanon to study business at
Wayne State University, was interviewed on Dec. 6 in Michigan as part of the
nation's terrorism inquiry. At right is his lawyer Mo Abdrabboh. (Associated
Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Median Income Drops Are Tied to Immigrants

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 994 words


Median household income dropped between 1989 and 1998 in Queens, Brooklyn,
Suffolk, Fairfield and many other counties across the nation that experienced a
large influx of immigrants, according to new census data.

The data indicate that even as the economy in the New York region and the nation
rebounded after the recession of the early 90's, figures for median household
income, adjusted for inflation, failed to climb in many counties because of the
increase in low-income immigrant workers.

The new data show that in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx -- counties with a
major increase of immigrants -- median income fell sharply. More surprising,
though, was the marked income drop in some of the region's wealthiest suburbs,
including Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties in New York and Fairfield
County in Connecticut.

"Immigrants are jumping immediately into these inner-ring suburbs, which is a
change from the past 300 years, when the first generation lived in inner-city
neighborhoods," said Robert D. Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan
Association, a civic group that works to improve the economy of the New York
region. "This new phenomenon is reducing household incomes in some of the
well-to-do suburbs as immigrants move into Bridgeport, Stamford and Norwalk.
It's consistent with the national phenomenon of the suburbanization of poverty."

The new data show that median income also fell in many counties in other states
attractive to immigrants, including Los Angeles County and Miami-Dade County.

In Queens, according to the data, the median household income fell to $36,480 in
1998 from $44,938 in 1989, a drop of nearly 19 percent, while in Brooklyn it
fell by 18 percent, to $27,556 from $33,762.

In Los Angeles County, where there has been a surge of immigrants from Mexico,
median income fell in constant dollars to $37,655 in 1998 from $45,962, a
decline of 18 percent, according to the census data.

Andrew A. Beveridge, a professor of sociology at Queens College, prepared the
analysis that compared the Census Bureau's median income estimates for 1989 and
1998.

Many economists view the median as the best figure for assessing income trends
since half the incomes are above it and half below.

Several economists and sociologists, however, argued that the new census data
exaggerated the income drop from 1989 to 1998. They said that although median
household income might have fallen in many counties, it did not fall as much as
the new data suggested.

These economists questioned the new computer model developed by the Census
Bureau, and they noted that there was a higher margin of error in analyzing
small areas like counties. In addition, critics argued that the way inflation
was adjusted might have exaggerated the drop in median income.

Stephen Kagann, chief economist for Gov. George E. Pataki, said the estimated
declines were not credible.

"They use an inappropriate starting point, 1989, which was a cyclical peak,
thereby ignoring the deep recession that occurred afterwards," Mr. Kagann said.
"And they use an inappropriate inflation adjustment that overestimates inflation
and thereby underestimates the growth in income."

He said that if the analysis had taken 1993 as its starting point, when New
York's economy was near the bottom, the study would have shown a 7.9 percent
increase in median household income statewide.

Jared Bernstein, an economist with the liberal Economic Policy Institute, also
said that the new census data painted too gloomy a picture. Pointing to another
census study, from last March, he noted that median household income for New
York State dropped by 7 percent from 1989 to 1998. He added that a 5 percent
increase in income in the two boom years, 1999 and 2000, meant a decline of just
2 percent from 1989 to 2000.

Still, he saw economic problems in the state. "In New York, you've had an
amplified version of the expanded income gap we've seen nationally," he said.
"Folks in the high end -- in law, high tech, financial markets -- were in a good
place to ride the boom. Meanwhile, the huge supply of low-wage workers who were
serving these upper-end workers during the boom didn't do nearly as well."

Mr. Beveridge's analysis estimated that median income in Nassau County fell by
14 percent ($61,096 in 1998 from $71,202 in 1989), 16 percent in Suffolk
($54,008 from $64,580), 11 percent in Westchester ($56,865 from $63,629), 12
percent in Fairfield ($57,389 from 65,583), 12 percent in Hudson County ($35,743
from $40,641), 17 percent in Passaic County ($40,923 from $49,421) and by 10
percent in Essex County ($40,595 from $45,375).

While critics derided the numbers, Mr. Beveridge defended them, saying the
arrival of immigrants in Bridgeport, Yonkers, Paterson, Hempstead and other
communities could have caused a double-digit decrease in income.

In the preponderance of counties nationwide, median household income rose from
1989 to 1998. The counties with declines were often in metropolitan areas with
the greatest surges in immigration, including New York, Miami, Los Angeles, San
Diego and Washington.

Roger Waldinger, an immigration expert at the University of California at Los
Angeles, said the decline in household income could have been fueled by factors
having nothing to do with immigration, like the increase in one-member and
single-parent households.

Economists have pointed to other reasons for stagnant or declining incomes,
including pressure from import competition, the declining power of labor unions,
automation that pushes workers out of jobs and poor schools that churn out
students who lack job skills.

Dr. Waldinger has conducted studies showing that in many communities,
immigration affects income levels and the gap between rich and poor. He said
income levels were dragged down by unemployment, not immigrants, who he said
usually worked long hours. But many economists say limited skills and inadequate
English relegated many immigrants to low-paying jobs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An influx of immigrants to neighborhoods like Flushing has
helped to push median household income down in Queens, census data indicate.
Brooklyn, Suffolk, Fairfield and many other counties have also seen a drop.
(Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 23, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Brighton Beach, a Tide of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ALAN S. OSER

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2584 words


ON oceanfront land in Brooklyn once occupied by the Brighton Beach Baths, the
Muss Organization of Queens is moving into the third year of construction on a
condominium project that is reversing the symbolism of the site -- from one
linked with the past to one reflecting the possibilities the city holds for its
recent immigrants and their children.

The project is called Oceana, a large-scale development that began in 1999 and
will have 15 buildings with 850 apartments when it is finished in about four
years. So far five buildings are completed and fully or partially occupied. A
sixth is in construction.

The Brighton Beach Baths were a sentimental symbol of Brooklyn family life as
older people remember it. Starting in 1907, families came on weekends and in the
summertime to change clothes in cabanas and take up the favored activities of
the era -- swimming, handball, group exercising, sunbathing and mah-jongg. But
by the mid-80's it became clear that the Baths' days were numbered. The
developer who had purchased the site in 1954 closed the Baths and proposed a
large-scale residential development. After many hearings the city approved a
plan for 1,600 apartments in the recession year of 1993. It never went forward.

Years passed. Then Muss went into contract to buy the property and won city
approval for a more modest development: 850 apartments along with a
16,000-square-foot clubhouse. Site preparation started in the fall of 1999.

The large number of immigrant families that Oceana has attracted makes it
possible to think of it as a symbol of the future in housing quality that
successful immigrants or their children can aspire to in America. Between 50 and
60 percent of the heads of household among the 305 buyers so far were born
abroad, the management says. Many of them immigrated only within the last 20
years, often from the former Soviet Union but from other countries as well. Many
grew up in America after arrival at a young age and early education in American
schools.

All have used savings accumulated in business or the professions to buy housing
that has all the elements of luxury living -- spacious apartments with grand
views; a gated entrance to a 15-acre site; underground parking and some reserved
street-level spaces; attention to design and decor in public spaces; a community
building with a health club and a pool. Eventually, if the city can be
persuaded, residents will have direct private access to the beach.

Current sales are mainly in a price range of $350,000 to $800,000 and rise as
high as $1.2 million for penthouses with direct ocean views. Prices exceed
$500,000 for 40 percent of apartments currently on the market.

The Oceana condominium is not the only new housing in Brooklyn in which recent
immigrants evidence their financial achievement. Nor is its housing the most
expensive to be found. In Manhattan Beach and Mill Basin and parts of Bergen
Beach, immigrant families have been prominent among the recent buyers of new or
totally renovated houses selling for upward of $700,000, and as high as $2
million or more. A broker in many of these sales, Jon Sobel, said that in about
a dozen sales at more than $1 million over the last two years, five of the
buyers were Russian-born. The rest were American-born.

"All these people were well-to-do, and they were self-made too," Mr. Sobel said.

But, as interviews with new buyers at Oceana showed, there is remarkable variety
in the twisting paths that led them all to reach their current economic status
and then choose to settle in the same Brighton Beach condominium. Few of them
appear to have come from a background of poverty. On the contrary, most had
successful careers in their homelands, but had the ability to take on and
succeed at new careers in America -- or to enable their children to succeed.

The newer immigrants may speak English hesitatingly, but their young children
already speak as fluently as natives. As sales proceed, the variety in the
ethnic background of buyers is also increasing. And more and more of them are
coming from outside Brooklyn.

Steve Maksin and his wife, Natalie, a couple in their 30's who bought at Oceana,
are perhaps representative of this newer type of buyer -- younger, Americanized,
fluently English-speaking and lacking even shallow roots in Brooklyn. Mr. Maksin
arrived -- alone -- from Kiev, Ukraine, only 13 years ago as a high-school
graduate. He lived at first with his grandmother, who had immigrated in 1979.
Two years later his mother arrived. He met Natalie when they were both
undergraduates at the Stern School of Business of New York University.

"My wife told me that her parents were planning to buy in Brighton Beach and I
should go to look at apartments in the same development," said Mr. Maksin, a
34-year-old tax lawyer and accountant working for PricewaterhouseCoopers in
Manhattan. "I thought that that would be the last place people would be likely
to buy. But when I went to see the place, I was sold." The Maksins paid $285,000
for a two-bedroom second-floor apartment, buying from plans in the fall of 1999.
They closed and moved in last February.

ACCORDING to an analysis of the city's 1999 housing and vacancy survey done by
the sociology department at Queens College, an estimated 85,500 households
headed by immigrants had incomes of $100,000 or more at that time. Of that
total, 7,700 of the households came from the former Soviet Union. The total
number of immigrant-headed households in 1999 is calculated by the department to
have been 1.14 million.

In Brighton Beach near the entrance to Oceana -- on Brighton Beach Avenue, half
a block from Coney Island Avenue -- the mark of Russian immigration is heavy on
local commercial life. A small high-end supermarket called Gourmet Plaza opened
a year ago. The women operating the many specialty-food counters in most cases
speak Russian only. A small cafe, clothing shops and furriers selling
high-priced goods have opened nearby. Yet prices generally seem much lower than
in Manhattan. One condominium owner estimated that prices for specialty foods
are 30 to 40 percent lower than they are in Manhattan.

The personal tales of the routes that Oceana's buyers traveled to condominium
ownership establish the development's claim to be a leading magnet for the
successful immigrant in New York City.

Tina Orsini, for example, was born in the Abruzzo region of Italy, on the
Adriatic Sea. Her father arrived in the United States in 1955, when she was 7.
Her husband, Alfonso, is a third-generation American, with Irish, Italian and
Hungarian roots. Mrs. Orsini is an English teacher, currently working on her
doctorate at Teachers College of Columbia University. Her husband spends most of
the year in the ski-resort town of Leysin, Switzerland, as headmaster of a
private school.

The Orsinis both came from middle-class families, but neither had been living in
Brooklyn when they bought at Oceana. "We sold our house in Summit, N.J., when Al
got an appointment in Switzerland, and when I came back a year and a half later
when everything was in storage, I thought we had to re-establish a nest
somewhere. My brother was living in Brooklyn, and he said, 'You really have to
come and see this place in Brighton Beach.' "

Mrs. Orsini bought a two-bedroom apartment on the second floor of an oceanfront
building for $330,000. Her husband had not even seen it when she went into
contract, she said. "The community is highly multicultural but with a large
Russian population, which I think has brought flavor and beauty to the area,"
she said. "To me it feels like a place abroad. It's nice to live in a luxurious
way in a very local but global community."

Another Oceana resident is Dr. Pavel Yutsis, 54, who bought a four-bedroom
second-floor apartment from plans for $675,000 in May 2000. Born in Odessa,
Ukraine, and a graduate of medical school in Voronezh, Russia, Dr. Yutsis
arrived in the United States in 1980 with his wife, Lilia, and his son, Max, now
26. Their daughter, Francine, 13, was born in the United States.

At first the family stayed with in-laws in Newark. While working as a nursing
assistant at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J., Dr. Yutsis prepared to take the
medical board examinations, which he passed two years later. In 1986 he opened a
pediatric practice in Brooklyn and later bought a house in Bensonhurst. Fluent
now in English, he is the host of two weekly medical call-in shows: one in
English called "From Allergies to Aging" on WWRL and the other in Russian called
"The People's Wave" on WPAT.

"There are very few Russians who would not like to live near the beach,
especially if they're from Odessa," Dr. Yutsis said. "I could have bought a
mansion with 40 rooms, but what would I do with all those rooms?"

Another buyer, Ernesto Custodio, 30, came to the United States from the
Dominican Republic at the age of 10. He graduated from the State University of
New York at Buffalo and now works, mostly at home, as a computer-network
consultant. He and his wife, Lisa, were renting on 105th Street near Central
Park West when they started house hunting throughout the metropolitan area on
the Internet. They found Oceana on a real-estate Web site.

"We drove around in Brooklyn, and we liked the look of Bay Ridge," Mr. Custodio
said, "but they just had regular apartments there that didn't seem to justify
the commute." The couple bought a 1,200-square-foot one-bedroom apartment at
Oceana on the first floor, selling at the time for $310,000.

"I had never been to this place before," Mr. Custodio said. "But we like the
beach and we take advantage of the club, and it's not a bad commute." Using the
Q line express train, called the Q-diamond, the commute to Midtown takes about
45 minutes.

THE Muss Organization's purchaser-profile data on the first 200 sales last
February showed that 73 percent of those buyers had incomes over $100,000 a
year. Almost half the buyers were former renters, and the rest had owned a home.

Sixty percent of the buyers formerly lived in Brooklyn, and most of the rest
came from other boroughs of the city. The information on occupations showed that
84 were self-employed and 30 were in computer-related businesses. The
next-largest category was doctors -- 17. Forty of the first 200 buyers were
retirees, and about a third had not yet turned 30.

Most of the early buyers were local people, largely Russian or of Russian
extraction, who had been waiting for years for the redevelopment of the Baths
site to succeed. But more recently, as Oceana has become better known, the
buying pool has widened geographically. One attraction has been its on-site
parking capacity, for 1,200 cars, a ratio of 1.5 cars per apartment. About 90
percent of the parking is underground. The typical ratio of parking in those
mid-density Brooklyn projects that have parking at all is 0.6, or 6 spaces for
every 10 apartments. About three-quarters of Oceana buyers own at least one car.

The Muss Organization acquired the property in 1999 after spending two years
winning city approval for its proposed revision of a higher-density plan that
had been approved six years earlier for the previous owner, the Miami Beach firm
of Alexander Muss & Sons. Its principal, Stephen Muss, is Joshua's cousin. His
view-oriented plan called for four tall towers with a total of 1,600 apartments,
with many studios and one-bedrooms.

Joshua Muss, steeped in more conventional New York City midrise development, was
unenthusiastic about that plan aesthetically, but faced two practical
impediments that led him to abandon it and start over. The first was that it was
extremely costly to build. The second was that it would have been nearly
impossible to finance. "We would have had to finance 400 apartments at a time,"
he said. "Can you imagine finding yourself in a terrible market when you're
building 400 apartments?"

Instead, Muss Development turned to the San Francisco firm of Sandy & Babcock
International, working with the Manhattan architectural firm of Schuman
Lichtenstein Claman & Efron, to redesign the project. Stanley Krebushevsky was
the zoning consultant.

The site plan is intended to create a "parklike neighborhood feeling," Muss
says, with a circular road and 15 midrise buildings of 7 to 12 stories
surrounding the central clubhouse. The carousel that was a notable feature of
the Brighton Beach Baths was disassembled and donated to the New York Aquarium
in Coney Island, which plans to restore it as a grand entrance and visitors
center.

The Carlyle Group of Washington is a financial partner in the Oceana project.
Construction financing is obtained on a building-by-building basis from the Bank
of New York.

One fundamental change brought by Muss Development has been in the apartment
mix. Instead of many smaller apartments in what was to have been a rental
development, Oceana's for-sale apartments are all two bedrooms or larger, and 90
percent are either three bedrooms or convertible into three bedrooms in space
built as a den or dining area.

Generous apartment size was one of the attractions for Phyllis and Irwin Shanes,
an American-born couple who bought a 1,900-square-foot four-bedroom apartment
with three baths and an ocean view for $685,000 a year ago. The Shanes, both
retired, had been living in the Seacoast middle-income co-op next door to the
Baths property for the last 15 years.

"Most of our friends have moved to retirement communities in New Jersey, or they
went to Florida," said Mrs. Shanes, whose husband was the administrator of a
union health and welfare fund. "But I was happy here. I like the underground
parking, and the closets. We bought a surface parking spot at our door too, so
we can give a place to anyone who comes to visit us." Outdoor parking sells for
an average of $35,000 a space, with a monthly maintenance fee of $35. Indoor
space rents for $200 a month plus tax.

THE development is not without Asian representation. Winnie Cheng and her
husband, Lee Fong, a lawyer, arrived with their families about 30 years ago as
teenagers, she from mainland China and he from Hong Kong. They met through
friends, married in the 70's and later bought a house in Oyster Bay, N.Y. Their
two sons are in college. A month ago they closed on a $400,000 two-bedroom
apartment at Oceana, but are keeping their Long Island house, mainly for weekend
use.

"We needed a place closer to the city for commuting," Ms. Cheng said. It matters
little to them that there are so few Asian-born Americans in Brighton Beach. "We
are from New York City, and today we do business with people of all ethnic
backgrounds," she said.

But Luba Dubrova's family is perhaps more representative of the early buyers.
Ms. Dubrova, a 21-year-old senior at Brooklyn College, spoke no English at all
when she arrived with her family from Minsk in 1989. She lives with her parents,
Elvira Dubrova and Lev Klaynberg, and her grandmother, Marya Dubrova, in a
1,770-square-foot penthouse purchased for $625,000.

Her parents, reluctant about giving an interview in English, sent their daughter
on that mission. Her father worked for a printing company in Minsk, but now he
works as a manager at his brother Joseph's company in Manhattan, Wonder Works
Construction. The family rented apartments in Bensonhurst and at Trump Village
on Ocean Parkway before buying their Oceana apartment.

"I went to P.S. 247 after we arrived in Bensonhurst," Ms. Dubrova said in
accentless English. "One day I didn't speak, and the next day I couldn't stop
talking."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The families who have bought apartments at the Oceana
condominum project include, from left, the Maksins, the Yutsises and the
Custidios. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); In their
Brighton Beach homes: left, Lisa and Ernesto Custodio; center, clockwise from
left, Lilia, Max, Pavel and Francine Yutsis, holding Lucky; right, Natalie and
Steve Maksin.; Oceana is to have 15 midrise buildings of 7 to 12 stories. Most
of the 850 apartments will have three bedrooms. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The
New York Times)(pg. 6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 26, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Close the Borders

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 97 words


To the Editor:

The shocking numbers cited in "Median Income Drops Are Tied to Immigrants" (news
article, Dec. 22) should convince anyone that mass immigration is economically
devastating for average Americans.

The article noted annual income losses of $5,000 to $9,000 per household over
the last decade in high-immigration locales.

Our open-borders policy has caused Americans to work harder for less and
welcomed terrorists. The question is when will Congress close America's porous
borders to protect both our incomes and our lives.

BRENDA WALKER
Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 22, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 29, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Lower on Bush's List Since Sept. 11

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER and GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1114 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 28


Not long ago, President Bush called Mexico America's most important friend among
the world's nations.

He met with President Vicente Fox more often than with any other leader. He
spoke of a "special relationship" with Mexico, a phrase traditionally reserved
for Britain.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell cited "the special place Mexico holds in our
national priorities." The two countries were forging agreements that would have
forever altered their political and economic relations, and changed the lives of
millions of migrants.

But for the moment, Mexico has fallen off Washington's foreign policy agenda.

Though President Bush has reiterated his commitment to Mexico, and President Fox
has expressed support for the American campaign against terrorism, serious talks
on every important issue uniting and dividing the two countries -- trade, drug
trafficking, immigration -- have been all but suspended since Sept. 11.

And like a bride left standing at the altar, Mexico is starting to wonder how
long it will have to wait.

"For us, Sept. 11 did not change the pace of our work," President Fox said in an
interview. "We have kept our focus. The United States has changed. They have had
to pause. For them the focus on terrorism has forced them to put less attention
on our bilateral issues.

"I understand that necessity. But at the same time, I would like to see that
once their work is done we can advance on our pending issues."

Mr. Fox said he hoped that the United States and Mexico could reach agreement on
sweeping immigration reforms by next summer. Among other things, the Mexican
government is pressing the United States to expand current guest worker programs
and give legal status to some three million Mexicans staying illegally in the
United States.

But "the events of Sept. 11 put things on hold," said Mexico's foreign minister,
Jorge Castaneda.

Hopes for a more open border, freer immigration and new United States investment
in Mexico have been buried under the weight of the attacks, the heightened
interest in border security to weed out terrorists and the economic slump in the
United States.

Mr. Fox's "dream of an open border between the United States and Mexico is
counted among many of the losses caused by the attacks of Sept. 11," said Peter
Andreas, a political scientist at Brown University.

Without concrete progress toward a common agenda between the two countries, and
without a strong American economy to bolster Mexico's, much of what Mr. Fox
hoped to achieve in his six years as president may become a distant vision.

"There is no country in the world that's suffered more from the eclipse of Sept.
11 and the laser focus of the Bush administration on bin Laden than Mexico,"
said Robert A. Pastor, a former National Security Council staff member and a
longtime expert on Mexico, who is now at Emory University.

Before the attacks on New York and Virginia, the two neighbors were working on
new safety plans for the 2,000-mile border, where hundreds of immigrants die
each year from exposure to heat and cold crossing illegally into the United
States through trackless deserts.

The two presidents even broached issues considered taboo by past governments,
including United States investment in Mexico's energy industry and permission
for American law enforcement officials to operate on Mexican soil. All remain on
the to-do list.

Mr. Fox spoke of his desire to achieve new agreements with the United States
during a trip to the border last week -- the same border that Mr. Powell, in his
first news conference as secretary of state, said was "no longer a line that
divides us, but a region that unites our nations."

For now, the line once again is a wall. "The voices that once clamored for open
borders have quieted," Mr. Andreas writes in a forthcoming edition of Foreign
Affairs in Spanish. In Washington, he says, "anguished and somber conversations
about perimeters of security and defense of national territory" have replaced
animated conversations about a united frontier, and "defenders of an open border
are ridiculed."

One million people still cross that line every day, Mr. Fox said. Foreign-owned
factories generate millions of dollars in tax revenues and tens of thousands of
jobs each year, and help drive what last year was a quarter-trillion-dollar
economic engine of cross-border trade.

But some 300,000 Mexicans illegally enter the United States across that same
border each year. Other foreigners can also cross it. And that is now, in many
American eyes, a national security issue above all.

Senior Mexican government officials say the terrorist strikes should make it
easier to win political support for the legalization of undocumented Mexican
immigrants, a centerpiece of Mr. Fox's proposals.

The officials argue that giving the immigrants United States identification
cards, Social Security numbers and driver's licenses would pull them out of
society's shadows and into the light of governmental oversight.

That argument has not won any visible support at the White House. So President
Fox struggles to keep his dream alive, to stay on the United States foreign
policy radar by capitalizing on Washington's new national security priorities,
with the aim of renewing American interest in Mexico's hopes.

He has pledged unconditional support for the campaign against terrorism,
offering to freeze bank accounts of people or organizations suspected of
supporting terrorists and placing new visa restrictions on travelers entering
Mexico.

"Mexico will be neither a residence for terrorists nor a transit stop for
terrorists to enter the United States," he said. "We will fulfill that
commitment."

Not all of Washington has forgotten the first nine months of 2001, when Mr. Fox
was a darling of politicians left and right, and the two nations' plans seemed
so in sync.

The Democratic leaders in Congress, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota and
Representative Dick Gephardt of Missouri, visited Mexico last month to emphasize
their support for President Fox's immigration proposals. Kenneth W. Dam, the
United States deputy Treasury secretary, said during a visit to Merida this
month that Mexico remained a priority for Mr. Bush.

"Nothing is more important to President Bush than this partnership" with Mexico,
Mr. Dam said. Though "the whole world changed" on Sept. 11, he said, "one thing
did not change, and that is the importance to the U.S. of this partnership."

But the progress the two partners achieved in the last three months fell short
of what once seemed possible.  Mexico has "come back full force to the bilateral
agenda," Mr. Fox said, even if the United States has not. And next year, he
said, "we will have the advances we want."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vicente Fox of Mexico, speaking last week in Tijuana.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 31, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Borscht, Please, With a Side of Sushi;
Ethnic Chefs Borrow and Blend, But Spaghetti and Sake? Never

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words


Hankering for Russian sushi? Yemeni fried chicken? Taiwanese fish and chips,
Japanese spaghetti or Jamaican jerk chicken with chop suey?

If not, you could always get the roast beef sub at a new Blimpie in Manhattan,
and a side of shrimp pad Thai, or a turkey and Swiss with banana sticky rice.

But if you really must sink your teeth into authentic ethnic-ethnic fusion,
forget the Blimpie, a k a Joey Thai.

There are two new Indian-Chinese restaurants in Queens. There is
Pakistani-Italian and Norwegian-Cantonese in Brooklyn and Korean soul food in
Harlem. There is Irish-Dominican, Greek-Irish and Dominican-Italian food, and a
Greek-owned Italian pizzeria in a Chinese section of Flushing that is popular
among Indian Sikhs.

Immigrant magnet that it is, New York City has long been the scene of some
cross-cultural cuisine, including Cuban-Chinese restaurants, Albanian pizza
parlors and a Chinese-owned Mexican taco chain.

But in a culinary phenomenon sweeping through the city's immigrant
neighborhoods, dozens of rare and unusual ethnic combinations and eateries have
emerged over the past few years, some of them opening just in the past few
months. And immigrant restaurateurs say that in the highly competitive world of
New York City ethnic food, it pays to branch out, mix, borrow and blend.

Mostly undetected by critics and guidebooks -- and all but the most adventurous
food lovers -- the restaurants cater largely to immigrants, advertising in
ethnic-language newspapers and relying on word of mouth to build their business.

In Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, Russian cafes have been serving sushi for several
years. But last year, a Ukrainian restaurateur opened the Riviera Sushi Grill,
where most customers are Russian immigrants and there is a Russian-style menu
offering borscht and pickled herring, with a separate menu for the sushi bar.

"We are not a restaurant where you can have the traditional California roll,"
said the owner, Alex Podolnyy, 29.

As Russian-speaking customers nibbled from large wooden sushi boats on a recent
evening, Mr. Podolnyy said that the sushi, made by a Taiwanese chef who adds
Russian twists to the food -- like black caviar -- is selling like mad.

But Toshi Suzuki, a Japanese immigrant in the restaurant business, scoffed at
the notion of Russian -- or Taiwanese-made -- sushi. "Everyone knows a real
sushi chef must be Japanese," he said.

No matter that Mr. Suzuki runs an Italian restaurant, Basta Pasta, on West 17th
Street in Manhattan, or that his chefs are either Japanese or Ecuadorian. "Most
of the Italian chefs in this town are Spanish or Chinese," he said. "So, we are
Japanese. This is New York."

His food is Italian, with Japanese influences, which are obvious in dishes like
spaghetti with flying fish roe and Japanese basil. However, he draws the line at
drinks, selling fine Italian wines.

"I will not be serving spaghetti and sake," Mr. Suzuki said.

There are perhaps dozens of upscale fusion restaurants in the city that, like
Basta Pasta, combine the flavors of two or more countries. But there are many
other off-the-radar neighborhood restaurants that cook less common combinations.

Among them is Nakisaki International Restaurant, which has been serving Jamaican
and Chinese food, and Chinese dishes with a Jamaican twist, for 15 years on a
quiet street in Rosedale, Queens. The owner, Earl R. Lyn, an ethnic Chinese from
Jamaica who also runs a 250-seat Nakisaki restaurant on Long Island, said he was
an acrobat in Jamaica and was nicknamed Nakisaki.

Similar to the Cuban-Chinese restaurants that first opened in Manhattan decades
ago, Jamaican-Chinese -- along with a growing number of Guyanese-Chinese
restaurants in Queens -- reflect a type of food that is native to the home
countries of the immigrants who cook it.

In the past century, the Chinese have immigrated to or gone as indentured
servants to countries all over the world, including Cuba, Guyana, Jamaica,
Pakistan and India. And the style of Chinese food that is cooked there -- and
influenced by the tastes and flavors of those countries -- was brought here.
Lately, the Chinese food from those countries is cropping up all over Queens, a
borough known for its large immigrant population and its many ethnic
restaurants.

With the market saturated by the cuisine of some ethnic groups, such as Indian
food, new restaurateurs from well-established immigrant groups here are likely
to cook a more specific or narrower style of food than most of those already in
business, said Jim Leff, an expert on ethnic food and author who started the Web
site Chowhound.com.

"The first American restaurant in Nepal will not make spoon bread from South
Carolina," he said. "But the 30th might."

The owners of the two new Indian-Chinese restaurants in Elmhurst, Queens, said
they felt that there were already too many Indian restaurants in the city. The
owners -- both of them Chinese-Indians -- said their best chance of surviving in
this economic downturn was to offer something Indian immigrants were yearning
for and that few others were serving -- home-cooked Chinese.

At one of them, Chopstick, on Grand Avenue, which opened three months ago, the
shiny new menu lists Chinese dishes that could be found at any Chinese
restaurant, like wonton soup and hot and sour shrimp. But others, like fried
chili chicken and vegetable special Bombay style, are made with Indian spices
and ingredients.

Akhil Bisaria, an Indian immigrant from Bombay who lives in New Rochelle, N.Y.,
and recently discovered Chopstick, said he had not found Indian-Chinese in New
York before. "This is the Chinese food I ate growing up," Mr. Bisaria, who works
for a computer company, said the other night, while he was sipping egg corn
soup, an Indian variation of egg-drop soup.

"I could really see this in the Village," said his wife, Alex, who had brought
her sister along to try the food. "It would be such a hit."

While some immigrant restaurateurs are serving mixed ethic cuisine native to
their homelands, others are serving the food of other ethnic groups for a
variety of reasons, profit foremost among them.

In the case of the Russian sushi, Japanese food is a craze now in Moscow and
establishments here are catering to the tastes of customers who no doubt know
about sushi's popularity back home.

The Russians are joining Koreans, and more recently Chinese, in opening sushi
establishments in New York City, according to Robert Sietsama, the restaurant
critic for The Village Voice and the author of several books on ethnic food.

"Koreans have claimed rights to sushi for a long, long time," Mr. Sietsama said.
"What is newer is Chinese restaurants serving sushi, that's astonishing. And the
Russians like sushi very much. I guess it was a quick step from pickled herring
to raw fish."

It is unclear how the new Blimpie, a k a Joey Thai, on East 31st Street in
Manhattan, fits into all this.

But in the two months since the owner, Sanoh Yunprayong, known as Joey Thai,
began serving Thai fast food along with "America's best-dressed sandwich," it
has drawn a small but loyal following.

Like several customers, Mr. Leff, who writes a regular column for Chowhound.com
called "What Jim had for Dinner Last Night," discovered the fast-food restaurant
by accident. He described it as "an oasis set in a highly commercial yellow
plastic Blimpie," but wrote in his column that he felt Joey Thai did not have
all the ingredients and equipment that he would need to make exceptional Thai
food.

"It was the sort of meal you'd expect to eat if you'd met a Thai chef cooking
spaghetti and steaks in a Peruvian railroad dining car," Mr. Leff wrote.

Joey Thai, 52, an immigrant from Bangkok who ran a Thai restaurant in his native
country, does the Thai cooking and makes the submarine sandwiches, as do his
wife and three sons. There are two menus; Blimpie breakfast is served starting
at 7 a.m., and the Thai food starts at 11 a.m.

Ultimately, Joey Thai said, his goal is to open a French restaurant with "a Thai
touch." But for now, he said, he will continue serving subs and Thai, and
probably add one other type of food to his menu.

"We would like to survive in New York City," he said. "And I can't count on
Blimpie alone. Next time you come, I may be serving Spanish. You know, rice and
beans."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Diners at the Riviera Sushi Grill, Alex Podolnyy's Russian
sushi restaurant in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York
Times)(pg. F3); Joseph Liu owns Chopstick, an Indian-style Chinese restaurant in
Elmhurst, Queens. Mr. Liu is Chinese, but was born in India. At right, Davina
Bisaria, 4, tries the noodles. Alex Podolnyy, right, opened a Russian restaurant
and sushi bar last year in Brooklyn. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York
Times)(pg. F1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 1, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chicken Well Simmered in a Political Stew;
Tyson Fosters Ties to Officials But Is Unable to Avoid Scrutiny

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

DATELINE: SPRINGDALE, Ark., Dec. 26


Tyson Foods, the nation's largest meat processor, has long cultivated close ties
to influential politicians, generously backing Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.
Yet few major corporations have been so battered by the authorities.

Over the last few years, federal officials have accused Tyson of violating
labor, environmental and civil rights laws and of making illegal gifts to a
cabinet secretary.

Two weeks ago, a federal grand jury indicted Tyson and six employees on charges
of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants into the United States to work at
the company's processing plants.

Tyson insists it has been the target of overzealous investigators and crusading
special interest groups. The company largely denies wrongdoing, even in cases it
paid to settle years ago.

But critics say that Tyson's growth and its transgressions rise from the same
devil-may-care philosophy that the Tyson family, which tightly controls the
company, has imbued it with from the start.

"The history of this company has been living on the edge," said John McMillin, a
food analyst at Prudential Securities.

Everyone in this Ozarks town, where the company is based, knows the Tyson
legend, beginning with John Tyson, who founded a poultry empire during the
Depression from the back of his truck.

His visionary son Don expanded the business through innovation, popularizing the
Rock Cornish game hen, along with boneless, battered and frozen chicken and
helping McDonald's create the Chicken McNugget.

But Don Tyson was also known for giving lavish parties and bringing young women
along with him to meetings with Wall Street analysts.

Today, Don Tyson's imprint on the company remains strong, but Tyson Foods is run
by his son, John H. Tyson. Once addicted to drugs and alcohol, the 48-year-old
family scion, known as Johnny, is chief executive of a $20 billion company that
processes a quarter of the nation's beef, pork and chicken.

Marvin Schwartz, who wrote a history of Tyson Foods for the company, says that
the corporation's aggressive culture reflects both its leaders and its origins.
"Don is a gambler, and he's very comfortable taking risks," Mr. Schwartz said.
"And in a state like Arkansas, where there are very few regulatory controls,
corporations have more flexibility. The state motto was 'The Land of
Opportunity,' and that's why entrepreneurs like Sam Walton and Don Tyson have
made it here."

It was that aggressive corporate mentality that twice led Tyson Foods into the
hostile deals that turned it into an industry giant.

Tyson bought Holly Farms for $1.5 billion in 1989 to become the nation's No. 1
poultry producer and processor. And early last year, the company won a fierce
bidding war with Smithfield Foods to acquire I.B.P., the nation's biggest beef
processor, for $3.2 billion.

"When they bought Holly, they went way into debt," said Mr. McMillin of
Prudential Securities. "And with I.B.P., they kind of bet the ranch."

Both deals reflected a business philosophy that the Tysons describe as "grow or
die." The company's critics say that same mind-set figures in the company's long
trail of legal entanglements.

According to the federal government's latest indictment, for example, aggressive
cost-cutting was the driving force behind Tyson's increasing use of low-paid
illegal workers, who over the last decade have steadily displaced better-paid
unionized employees. Government investigators said that two executives in
Springdale knew about the smuggling of illegal workers and that the company
helped immigrants obtain counterfeit work documents, according to the
indictment.

Tyson officials deny the accusations that there has been a companywide
conspiracy, saying the recruitment of illegal workers was done by a handful of
managers acting contrary to company policy.

"There was no way for us to know these people weren't using good documents,"
said Bob Corscadden, a Tyson spokesman. "We follow government procedures, but
there's a huge traffic in forged documents out there."

Two years ago, the company was fined by Federal officials for violating child
labor laws after a 15-year-old immigrant working illegally at a Tyson plant died
and a 14-year-old was seriously injured.

A few months later, Tyson settled federal charges that it discriminated against
women and blacks in its hiring practices at a plant in Forest, Miss.

Last January, the Labor Department accused Tyson and other poultry companies of
cheating workers out of thousands of hours of wages.  Labor Secretary Elaine
Chao still must decide whether the government will seek up to $340 million in
back wages.

And just before Christmas, Tyson said in a regulatory filing that it was
notified that the Justice Department might indict it on charges of violating the
Clean Water Act because a plant in Missouri had been polluting the waterways.

"This is a company with a bad history," said the Rev. Jim Lewis, an Episcopal
minister in the Delmarva region of the Northeast, where poultry processing is a
big industry. Mr. Lewis has been helping workers organize since the 1980's, when
they began to approach him with complaints about Tyson.

"They cheat these workers out of pay and benefits, and then try to keep them
quiet by threatening to send them back to Mexico," Mr. Lewis said.

Tyson officials insist the company has been falsely portrayed by activists and
that it has been working to improve plant conditions and environmental
compliance.

If anything, they add, the cascade of government accusations disproves the
notion that the company wields enormous political influence -- a part of Tyson's
image since its backing of Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas in the
1950's and 60's.

"If we've got all this political power, how come the government keeps doing this
to us?" Mr. Corscadden asked. "This is part of the myth. We have not spent a lot
of time in Washington."

Still, Tyson Foods paid $6 million in 1997 to settle accusations that the
company made illegal gifts to Mike Espy, the agriculture secretary during Mr.
Clinton's first term, when regulations affecting Tyson were pending before the
Agriculture Department.

Don Tyson, then the company's chairman, and John Tyson, then vice chairman, were
named unindicted co-conspirators, accused of playing roles in arranging for the
gifts, including a college loan that the Tyson Foundation arranged for Mr.
Espy's girlfriend.

Two Tyson executives were eventually convicted and received prison terms in the
case, but President Clinton later pardoned the men. Mr. Espy was acquitted.

Tyson officials called the gifts an "act of common hospitality" and said the
company was drawn into a political battle because of its ties to Mr. Clinton.

Don Tyson was an early supporter of Mr. Clinton's campaigns for public office in
Arkansas. Though he opposed Mr. Clinton's gubernatorial re-election campaign in
1980, Mr. Tyson returned to the Clinton camp in later campaigns.

Mr. Tyson and Mr. Clinton also shared close friends, including James B. Blair,
for many years the general counsel of Tyson Foods. It was Mr. Blair who in the
late 1970's placed many of the trades that helped Hillary Rodham Clinton make a
profit of nearly $100,000 in the cattle futures market.

Tyson Foods said that Don Tyson, who recently stepped down as senior chairman,
and John Tyson were not available for comment. But in a telephone interview Mr.
Blair said that the Clinton-Tyson relationship had been exaggerated.

"The Clinton haters always believed Tyson was much closer to Clinton than he
actually was," Mr. Blair said. "Don Tyson and Bill Clinton are both my very
personal friends, and they can barely tolerate one another."

The latest investigation could not come at a more difficult time for Tyson
Foods. Profits in the meat industry are slumping, and management has its hands
full integrating I.B.P -- with its own history of run-ins with immigration and
environmental authorities -- into the company.

Now, among those close to Tyson, there is a sense that the company needs more
political influence, not less. "Tyson has never had the political power of, say,
A.D.M.," Mr. Blair, the former general counsel said, referring to the Archer
Daniels Midland Company. "I don't think they have been aggressive enough in
protecting themselves politically."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tyson Foods, which has its headquarters in Springdale, Ark., is
controlled by the Tyson family and led by John H. Tyson, the grandson of the
founder. (Photographs by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 11, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Americas: Mexico: Talks With U.S. On Immigration

BYLINE:  By Ginger Thompson (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 102 words


Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda began a two-day visit to Washington aimed at
reviving negotiations with the Bush administration on immigration reforms.

Before the Sept. 11 attacks, Mexico and the United States had committed
themselves to forging agreements that would, among other things, expand the
number of Mexican workers allowed into the United States. Mexican officials are
also urging the United States to give legal status to some three million
undocumented Mexicans. With formal talks resuming, Mexican officials said they
hoped to reach agreements by the end of this year.   Ginger Thompson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

CENSUS;
A Welcome Mat for Immigrants

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1086 words

DATELINE: CAMDEN


LIKE many other Cuban families, Felipe Gorostiza's found northern New Jersey
warm and accommodating.

"The Cuban population when I was in North Jersey was big in a few towns," said
Dr. Gorostiza, who is now the executive director of Walter Rand Institute for
Public Affairs at Rutgers University here. "Then they became the typical
American immigrant experience and moved to the suburbs. Cubans went everywhere,
and I guess I am one."

The latest census information shows that New Jersey still embraces immigrants
searching for the American dream. While the state lost nearly 40,000 people to
other states from April 2000 to July 2001, that was more than made up for by
over 60,000 immigrants who came to New Jersey from other countries during that
same period.

Since 1790, the Census Bureau has made complete counts of the nation's
population, but it now has a mandate from the federal government to update those
statistics regularly, especially those relating to race, ethnic origin and
immigration.

Indeed, the latest population estimates show that New Jersey, while ranked only
24th among the states in overall population growth, is adding people faster than
any other state in the Northeast -- primarily because of the increase in the
number of immigrants coming to the state.

"It is the continuation of a trend that started back in the 1970's," said Sen
Yuan-Wu, the chief demographer for the New Jersey Department of Labor.
"Immigration policy changed in the late 1960's, putting fewer restrictions on
non-European immigrants. Since then, New Jersey has been a welcoming place for
immigrants from, particularly, Asia and Latin America."

Current statistics back this up. Overall, New Jersey's population rose by
70,081, to 8,484,431. Nearly 50,000 of that was because of the state's internal
birthrate. But a loss of 39,215 people to other states was more than offset by
the 63,361 immigrants who decided to call New Jersey home during the same
period. That disproportionate population shift placed New Jersey sixth among the
states in net immigration.

"I would think one of the biggest reasons immigrants come to New Jersey is that
they don't have that preconceived notion that New Yorkers and Philadelphians
have about New Jersey being somehow undesirable," said Dr. Gorostiza.

He said immigrants today are not looking to be those huddling masses of lore.

"They don't turn up their noses and move to Brooklyn just because it isn't New
Jersey," he said. "They see it is a good place to live, convenient to working in
the cities, safe and cheaper than cramming into some apartment in the city."

Most of the people leaving New Jersey, according to the census data, move to
either New York and Pennsylvania (presumably those native-born New Jersey
naysayers Dr. Gorostiza talked about) or to Florida (primarily retirees).

But those immigrating come from an increasingly wide range of countries. The
large Cuban immigration of the previous 30 years slowed in the last decade. In
1990, for instance, there were about 80,000 Cuban-born New Jersey residents; in
2000, there were 72,000.

On the other hand, there was a boom in Mexican immigration to the state -- a 258
percent increase from 1990 to 2000. And though the increase was statewide, the
largest increase was was centered in Cumberland County, where the Mexican
population rose sixfold in 10 years.

Dr. Gorostiza attributed the large in increase in Cumberland County, in South
Jersey, to a change in agricultural patterns in the areas around Vineland and
Bridgeton.

"Things have changed from food growing to nurseries," said Dr. Gorostiza. "It is
now not a migrant community, but a year-round one. The migrants used to come
from Puerto Rico and then go back home, but the Mexicans who replaced them work
from spring to Christmas in the nurseries and greenhouses."

However, he noted that the Mexicans came to the area in the first place because
there was a Spanish-speaking infrastructure already in place from the Puerto
Rican community.

"If you come to a place where your language is spoken, where it is easier to get
the food or other items you are used to, where people are used to having people
somewhat like you, you are more likely to build a community there," he said.

Similarly, he said, Central American immigrants have resettled in the urban
neighborhoods of North Jersey that 10 or 15 years ago were primarily Cuban.

Conversely, what seemed to be a burgeoning Japanese immigrant community,
especially in Bergen County, has dwindled somewhat in recent years. The census
figures show that there are 15 percent fewer Japanese-born New Jersey residents
than there were in 1990.

"The Japanese economy has taken a nose dive, so the people who were sent to work
in New York and who lived in Fort Lee for three years are just not there
anymore," said Dr. Gorostiza. "They would naturally move to that area, since
there was a great place to shop, the Japanese mall in Edgewater, and much larger
apartments than they were used to in Japan."

According to Dr. Wu, the state demographer, the major age groups that New Jersey
is losing to other states are the over-60's and those in their teens and early
20's.

"The first is not hard to figure out," he said. "It's retirees who are moving to
the Sun Belt. This is a national trend, and I'm afraid even New Jersey will not
escape it.

"But it is more distressing among the young people," he added. "That is mostly
because we send so many people to college in other states. Rutgers is nowhere as
big, for instance, as Ohio State, so we have a hard time keeping young people
here for college. That can be a disturbing population trend for the future."

In the near future, New Jersey may also lose its foothold among the 10 most
populous states. It is currently ninth, but census figures show that at their
current rates of growth, Georgia and North Carolina are poised to overtake New
Jersey in population. Georgia is almost certain to do so by 2005, and North
Carolina will probably overtake New Jersey by the end of the decade.

Nonetheless, New Jersey is still the most densely populated state, with about
1,200 people per square mile as against the rest of the country, where the
average is about 77 people per square mile.

"We are growing more than any other state in the Northeast, but I am afraid that
isn't enough with the trends of population moving South and West," said Dr. Wu.
"But as long as the economy here stays strong, immigration will continue and we
will continue to prosper as a state no matter how many people we have."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A street in Jersey City. Many new state residents are Latin
American. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 15, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED;
Marshals Transfer Detainee to Chicago

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 14


An Arab community leader who has been in custody since Dec. 14 accused of
immigration violations is being moved to Chicago from a suburban jail here, a
federal official said today.

The man, Rabih Haddad, 41, of Ann Arbor, Mich., is a co-founder of an Islamic
charity based in Illinois that federal officials say may have links to terrorist
activity.

Lou Stock, supervisory deputy United States marshal in Detroit, said he could
not comment on the reason for moving Mr. Haddad. Mr. Stock said Mr. Haddad had
been transferred from the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to the United States Marshals Service, but he said this could be "for any number
of reasons."

Mr. Stock referred all questions to the United States attorney's office in
Chicago. Randall Samborn, a spokesman for that office, said that no charges had
been filed against Mr. Haddad and that he had no further comment.

The same day Mr. Haddad was taken into custody, federal agents raided the
suburban Chicago headquarters of the Global Relief Foundation's headquarters in
suburban Chicago, the charity Mr. Haddad helped start and on whose board he now
serves. The government froze the group's assets.

Mr. Haddad, who has been a member of the group since 1992, is active in civic
affairs in Ann Arbor, where his detention has touched off protest. An
immigration hearing last week at which he was denied bond attracted nearly 100
supporters.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRANTS;
For Refugees, a Longer Wait at America's Door

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 876 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, in the wake of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, has increased its scrutiny of refugees seeking to enter the
United States and the relatives who sponsor their entry.

The changes come after the authorities reviewed immigration procedures during a
temporary moratorium on refugee admissions that was imposed after the attacks.
The federal authorities found that little was being done to verify either the
identity of refugees or their ties to relatives in the United States, State
Department officials said.

While refugees of every race, ethnicity and religion will be investigated, the
government will focus on men who are 14 to 65 years old from countries where Al
Qaeda, the terrorist group run by Osama bin Laden, has been operating, officials
said.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation has identified eight countries as havens for
terrorists: Afghanistan, Iran, Libya, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Sudan and
Yemen.

Immigration authorities also found that under the previous regulations, anyone
could travel in the place of a refugee approved for entry, with little more than
a forged ID, or a well-placed bribe. To prevent this, officials have taken steps
to thwart identity fraud, including prohibiting refugees from making their own
travel arrangements. The arrangements will be made through the International
Organization for Migration, an intergovernmental resettlement group, which is
under contract with the State Department.

Under the new rules, before refugees can board a plane for the United States,
they must meet with an official from the migration organization, who will
compare them with photographs in their application files. And refugees are now
fingerprinted at four major ports of entry -- New York, Chicago, Miami and Los
Angeles -- before heading to their final destinations.

The increased scrutiny of refugees is the latest move against foreigners since
Sept. 11. In late October, the government began cracking down on immigrants who
had overstayed their student visas. By that time, more than 1,000 people, most
Middle Eastern, had been detained on immigration or criminal charges, or as
material witnesses to the terrorist attacks. In November, law enforcement
authorities began interviewing hundreds of young men from countries with
suspected links to terrorism.

Even before scrutiny was increased, refugees had undergone the most stringent
background checks of any group of people seeking admission to the United States,
officials and advocates for refugees say, and the changes will add to the time
it takes to enter the country.

Administrators at resettlement agencies complained that the new procedures would
increase the caseloads of overworked immigration service workers and end up
keeping more refugees out of the country.

They say that refugees, who live in disease-prone camps while fleeing war or
persecution, survive on little more than rice and beans for months at a time,
and need access to the United States more urgently than any other class of
immigrant.

"It will be much harder to prove that you have been a victim of persecution,"
said Erol Kekic, director of resettlement and processing at Church World
Service, a refugee assistance program based in New York City. "It will be much
harder to gain a spot to be interviewed by the I.N.S.  because of worker
caseloads. We must remember these people are victims of terror."

In the past, officials identified refugees based on affidavits of relationships
submitted by their American relatives, said Leonard S. Glickman, president of
the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, based in New York City.

Frequently, refugees show up at settlement camps with little more than the
clothes they are wearing, and without identification, making it hard for them to
prove their identities. Before the restrictions were tightened, a person in
America could fill out an affidavit claiming anyone as a relative and the claim
was never verified, State Department officials and resettlement organizations
say.

The intense scrutiny is new for refugees, who were subjected to rigorous
screening of a different sort. Mostly, they were considered crime victims
themselves.

Now, investigators will check criminal and immigration histories, at the
beginning of a refugee's application process, rather than at the end. Refugees
must list the names of relatives on their immigration applications.
Investigators will look for anything that could link applicants or their
immediate families, in the United States and abroad, to known terrorists,
officials said.

"There are special requirements in place now for people who meet a certain
profile," a State Department official said. "In most cases it has nothing to do
with the person; they just come from a country that has a lot of terrorism or Al
Qaeda activity."

The new measures have already yielded results. The State Department official
said investigators had spotted the names of refugee applicants who appeared to
be related to Mohamed Abdi, a refugee from Somalia who entered the United States
in 1993 and is suspected of having links to one of the hijackers in the terror
attacks. Immigration officials are reviewing Mr. Abdi's file to determine if the
applicants' names are listed on his application.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DETAINEES;
Rights Groups Press for Names of Muslims Held in New Jersey

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 777 words


With about half the Muslim men detained on immigration charges after the Sept.
11 attacks now in county jails in New Jersey, advocacy groups are increasing
their efforts to find out who, where and how many detainees are in custody there
-- and to ensure their access to lawyers.

In Newark yesterday, the American Civil Liberties Union's New Jersey chapter
sued Hudson and Passaic Counties, seeking the names of all Immigration and
Naturalization Service detainees jailed there.

"Our lawsuit is relying on very clear state law, three different statutes,
requiring that jails make public the names and other information on all those
being held," said Deborah Jacobs, executive director of the A.C.L.U. of New
Jersey.

Kerry Gill, a spokesman for the immigration service's district office in New
Jersey, said the agency would not comment on pending litigation.

For months, there has been great confusion over just how many people have been
detained on immigration charges as part of the terrorism investigation, where
they are, and how many have been sent back to their native countries.

The Justice Department last issued a count in December, when it said 460
detainees were in custody.

The government has repeatedly refused to release the names or locations of the
detainees, most recently in its Jan. 11 response to a Freedom of Information Act
lawsuit brought by the A.C.L.U., the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee
and other advocacy groups. In its response, the Justice Department provided
information on 725 detainees -- but blacked out the names and arrest and custody
locations. What was left was the detainee's nationality, date of arrest, legal
charge and date of charging document. In more than a dozen cases, the documents
showed a lag of more than a month between the arrest and the filing of charges.

"We are concerned about the delays," said Arthur Spitzer, a lawyer for the
A.C.L.U., which yesterday filed new court papers seeking further information.
"Most of these detainees have been cleared of any connection to terrorism. The
information the government provided appears to be incomplete and unreliable,
with all kinds of clerical errors."

In recent months, immigration lawyers nationwide say, many clients detained in
the terrorism investigation have been moved to the Passaic and Hudson County
jails, which now hold nearly 200 post-Sept. 11 detainees.

"We think there are a lot of people sitting there for months, unrepresented, who
may agree to deportation because they are told it's the fastest way out, only to
find that they're still stuck there, and they've waived all their rights." said
Sarah Hogarth, director of the National Lawyers Guild Post-9/11 Project.

The advocacy groups say they have been stymied in their efforts to ensure that
all detainees have access to lawyers, through a kind of Catch-22: they are only
allowed to visit detainees if they know the names and alien numbers, which the
Justice Department will not release.

The only other way to make contact with unrepresented detainees, they say, is by
making know-your-rights presentations at the jails, as they do at most federal
immigration facilities. At the presentations, lawyers describe legal options and
talk with detainees who want lawyers.

Last month, the American Civil Liberties Union and the American Friends Service
Committee wrote to the I.N.S. district director in Newark, asking to conduct
rights presentations at the Passaic and Hudson jails.

The letter said the immigration service had blocked access even to detainees who
had asked for legal visits from the advocacy groups.

"As you know," it said, "an earlier request to visit specific detainees held at
Passaic County Jail was denied. We are deeply concerned that delays in access
for legal visits will result in de facto denials of legal representation for
many of those detained."

A spokesman for the immigration service said the district director responded in
a letter dated Jan. 11, agreeing to let groups conduct the rights presentations.

But Amy Gottlieb of the American Friends Service Committee said she had not
received that response.

Separately, papers filed yesterday in Washington by the coalition pursuing the
Freedom of Information lawsuit said that an official from the Justice
Department's Office of Legal Policy disclosed at a panel discussion last
Thursday that only 160 detainees were still in custody. Dan Nelson, a department
spokesman, yesterday called the lower figure a misstatement, saying: "The last
number we have, from late December, was 460. The 160 was incorrect."

"It could have been a slip of the tongue," Mr. Spitzer said. "But it illustrates
the confusion."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hamburg Journal;
'Judge Merciless' Thinks All Germany Needs Him

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 937 words

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany, Jan. 21


Ronald Schill, known in the press as "Judge Merciless," came into office in this
elegant and seamy city state on a tide of disgust with crime and immigration,
shaking political assumptions. Now he is thinking about going national.

Mr. Schill, who is locally notorious for his harsh judgments in court, came out
of nowhere to win nearly 20 percent of the vote in Hamburg's state elections
last September, helping to turn the flaccid Social Democrats out of office here
after 44 years in power.

The showing was a record for a new party -- the Party for a Law and Order
Offensive, known more commonly as the Schill party. Now Mr. Schill, 42, intends
his party to run in state elections in April in Saxony Anhalt, in former East
Germany, where he is getting around 20 percent in the opinion polls.

He is even considering a run in the federal elections in September, which could
make or break the conservative Edmund Stoiber's challenge to the Social
Democratic chancellor, Gerhard Schroder.

But only 85 days in office, Mr. Schill is already facing criticism that he is
not delivering on his promises to push out Hamburg's drug addicts and dealers
and flood its streets with 2,000 more policemen. A headline this week in
Hamburger Morgenpost, a local tabloid, charged, "From Judge Merciless to
Minister Planless."

Mr. Schill confronts the problem of any right-wing leader in Germany: his rise
stirs anxiety linked to Germany's past. His manner is modest as he curves his 6
feet 5 inches into an office chair, but his message is clear: other politicians
have undermined the police, treated crime as the fault of the society and not
the individual, and allowed "unhindered immigration into Germany, especially of
black Africans, people from the former Yugoslavia, Turkey and other Muslim
countries, which led to imported unemployment and imported crime."

Hamburg, a cosmopolitan Hanseatic port and media hub, has long been "the crime
capital of Germany," Mr. Schill says. Drug dealers infest the cavernous central
railroad station and the city's parks. Muggings are about 10 times more common
here than in Munich, the capital of Mr. Stoiber's low-crime state, Bavaria.

In 2001, theft rose by more than 19 percent and drug trafficking by 17 percent,
according to official figures.

In Hamburg, too, one of the main cells of Al Qaeda terrorists who attacked New
York and Washington last September planned and plotted, melting into the large
immigrant Muslim community of the southern district of Harburg.

"The terrorists chose the right place to plot their crimes," Mr. Schill said.

It was fertile ground for Mr. Schill, whose election showing won him the post of
state interior minister in a conservative-led coalition. The office legitimizes
him and his politics, troubling the left and posing a distinct problem for the
mainstream conservatives.

Mr. Stoiber is already trying to keep his distance from the political novice
with the uncomfortable opinions that rattle Germany's European partners.

"I exclude partnership with such a party on the federal level," Mr. Stoiber said
recently. "We don't need it."

But in a close election, Mr. Stoiber might need Mr. Schill, who for now is
merely relishing the attention and saying he will see how he fares in the Saxony
election before deciding on a national run.

Then he gives a sort of wink and says that a "high-ranking member" of Mr.
Stoiber's party has encouraged the judge to run, to help the southern, Catholic
Mr. Stoiber with the skeptical Protestants in the north. He already criticizes
Mr. Stoiber for "diluting his position on the issue of immigration and moving
toward the center."

Germany's left, eager to see Mr. Schill out of politics just as swiftly as he
entered it, is expressing the view that he has already broken his promises.

"Schill's making propaganda that he's solving the problems of ordinary people,"
said Michael Neumann, a Social Democratic member of Hamburg's Parliament. "But
people are already asking where are his programs and ideas."

Mr. Schill counters that money is tight, that he has already put 280 new
recruits into the police academy, increased training for police staff and
brought in some Bavarian police officers on contract.

There have been other contretemps. A dealer who had swallowed plastic packets of
cocaine died when the police administered a drug intended to force him to vomit
up the evidence. The police have now been required to have two doctors present.

A Schill proposal to leave a prison on the grounds of a former Nazi
concentration camp, Neuengamme, where 50,000 people died, created a big fuss.
Mr. Schill argues that a new prison will cost $50 million, that the Social
Democrats put the prison there originally after the war and that his own
grandfather, a Communist, was killed in the camp in 1944.

"The prison should never have been built there," Mr. Schill said. "And the
Social Democrats should have removed it long ago."

After protests from Jewish survivors of the camp, Mr. Schill agreed to dismantle
the prison.

Mr. Schill's effort to rid the railway station of drug dealers had a setback,
too. He wanted to bus them to the port, but the customs authorities who run the
port refused to play along.

Still, the German train company, Deutsche Bahn, has had its own success.

It set up big loudspeakers and started playing Vivaldi to improve the
atmosphere. The constant repetition of "The Four Seasons," says the newspaper
Hamburger Abendblatt, "has been an effective street sweeper, guaranteed to drive
the most stubborn junkie crazy." To avoid Vivaldi, the paper said, many junkies
and dealers have left the station of their own accord.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronald Schill, a conservative judge known for his harsh
rulings, was made the state interior minister in Hamburg after an impressive
election showing. He has promised to push out Hamburg's drug addicts and
dealers. A crack dealer, right, was arrested in the St. Georg area of the city.
(Gunther Menn/Focus/Matrix); (R. Jatsch-Koesling/Action Press, for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 27, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Laborers Feel Stranded in Pacific Northwest as Day Jobs Dry Up

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: TACOMA, Wash., Jan. 26


Finding work was not a problem for Jose Padilla for most of the last two and a
half years. Landscaping in Phoenix, laying carpet in Denver and, most recently,
packing apples near Wenatchee in central Washington.

"Everywhere I went there were jobs to do," said Mr. Padilla, 26, from a village
in Jalisco Province in Mexico.

But as he stood in the wind and rain the other morning outside a day laborers'
center here, part of a line of more than 60 men, he found himself confronting a
new reality.

There was no work that day, just as there had been none in three of the last
four days he had shown up at the site.

A few painters and contractors drove up, looking for workers at rates from $7 to
$10 an hour. But those spots were quickly filled by others with more experience
in such jobs.

With the economy in particular decline in the Pacific Northwest, where Oregon
and Washington have the two highest unemployment rates in the nation, hundreds
of immigrant laborers have left agricultural areas on the eastern side of the
Cascade Mountains in recent months, looking for work in the urban areas on the
western side.

But with the market for such unskilled work drying up, many are finding little
or no work at all, and some describe themselves as virtually stranded in the
cities.

The problem is most visible in Seattle, at places like the Casa Latina Day
Workers Center, a gathering place that has for four years matched Mexican and
Central American immigrants with contractors and homeowners.

For much of that time, with the Puget Sound economy roaring, the workers seemed
to have the upper hand.

Almost anyone who showed up at Casa Latina could find a job for the day, even if
the worker was in the United States illegally.

Today many more men show up each day, competing for fewer jobs, said David
Ayala, lead organizer at the center.

"We had one day last week when nobody showed up at all," Mr. Ayala said, meaning
that no employers at all stopped by despite the long line of ready workers that
begins forming before 6 a.m. each day.

Several men waiting for work the other day said they were homeless. Others said
they had a place to sleep only because of the indulgence of relatives.

Most said they could no longer send money to their families in Mexico or Central
America -- their reason for traveling to the United States in the first place.
Others said they felt stuck here, with no way out.

"I came here because I heard there were jobs, jobs, jobs in Seattle, $10 an hour
or more," said Raul, also 26, from San Pedro Sula, Honduras, who declined to
give his full name because he is not a legal immigrant.

"Now I would do anything to just be able to go home," Raul said about the city
where his wife and his son and daughter, both 6, live. But with a bus or plane
ticket costing $600 or more, Raul wondered whether he could ever afford to go.

Others who had worked on the farms of central Washington said they had traveled
to Seattle temporarily, looking for work in the fallow winter months, and
planned to return to the other side of the mountains in the early spring.

In past years, they said, they had even gone home to see their families for the
winter or, perhaps, traveled to Florida or Texas, where farm work could be
found.

But many said they were remaining in Seattle, because they could not afford to
go elsewhere or because they were worried about security crackdowns along the
border and in the United States.

"I think it's harder just to travel around the country," said a 32-year-old at
Casa Latina who gave his first name as Pedro.

He has found work over the last three years even though he is here illegally and
has no photo identification. Last year, he took a bus to Missouri to work in a
poultry-processing plant.

"I've heard that Greyhound wants to see a driver's license or a passport or
something," Pedro said. "Nobody asked me for anything then."

Guadalupe Gamboa, Northwest regional director for the United Farmworkers of
America, said many workers in central Washington had moved to the Seattle-Tacoma
region for the winter to look for work rather than risk going back over the
border.

Even here in Tacoma, where the influx of migrant workers is less discernible
than in Seattle, officials and advocates for the homeless said they had
nonetheless noticed a definite increase in recent months, part of a general
strain on services.

"We are easily serving double the number we did last year," said Michael
Sterbick, director of Operation Keep 'Em Warm and Fed, a group that distributes
food, clothing and tarpaulins to the poor in Tacoma.

Mr. Sterbick's caseload has increased, from 60 a day to as many as 135, with
about one in eight being Hispanic.

"I see a lot of fresh faces, people that are young and strong, and they just
want to work," he said.

But Mr. Ayala, back in Seattle, said he was seeing a growing number of workers
who have grown destitute and demoralized.

"The street changes you," he said, describing several regulars at Casa Latina
who recently became homeless and who have found only sporadic work despite
showing up at the job center every day.

"You wind up feeling like a mouse, just trying to figure out where to go at
night," Mr. Ayala said. "You forget your whole goal in coming here to begin
with. Now you're just trying to survive."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Men in Seattle looking for jobs at Casa Latina, where immigrants
have been matched with contractors and homeowners seeking workers. (Larry Davis
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Investigation by I.N.S. Delays Obtaining Visas and Snarls Adoptions in Vietnam

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., Jan. 28


For nearly two years, Lisa C. Kombrink and Jesse Camacho did everything they
could to adopt a child. They navigated mounds of paperwork, exposed their
marriage to the scrutiny of social workers, and waited.

Finally, on Dec. 9, they arrived in Hanoi, Vietnam, from their Suffolk County
home in East Quogue and were handed the baby they had decided to name Gabriel.

But in the weeks that followed, something went wrong. Instead of receiving a
visa from the State Department that was required to bring Gabriel back to
America, the couple got a thick packet at their hotel in early January from the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, informing them that no
visa would be forthcoming, at least for now.

It turned out the Vietnamese agency that was helping out with the adoption was
being investigated by the I.N.S. Seven other couples who had adopted children
through the same agency were also left in the lurch. They were the legal parents
of a child they fell in love with when they first saw his picture, but they
could not bring him home.

"You can imagine being only days away from being flown back to the United States
and being told, 'No, you can't be a parent in your own country,' " Ms. Kombrink
said. "I can't tell you the heartbreak and the anger at hearing that terrible
news."

She returned to America on Jan. 9 to press her case and tend to her law
practice. Mr. Camacho, a self-employed woodworker, and 13-month-old Gabriel are
still at the Evergreen Hotel in Ho Chi Minh City, in a room overlooking a street
busy with scooters and taxis.

"It's just so frustrating," Ms. Kombrink said. "I waited so long to become a
mother. I became a mother, and then I had my son torn away from me."

At a news conference today, Senator Charles E. Schumer called on the I.N.S. to
grant the eight families visas to bring their nine adopted children -- one
family adopted two -- home. "They say this agency isn't doing things correctly.
I say, Fine, investigate," Mr. Schumer said. "But don't hold these families in
limbo."

Jill Cole, director of international adoptions at Spence-Chapin Services to
Families and Children, the Manhattan adoption agency that assisted Ms. Kombrink
and Mr. Camacho, defended the Vietnamese agency in question, the International
Mission of Hope. "We know them very, very well, and they're a wonderful agency,"
Ms. Cole said.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Bill Strassberger, said officials had
found "irregularities" in the adoption process and did not intend to approve the
visas without investigating each case.

"We've had a history of children being approved for adoption by foreign
governments, only to find the birth mother showing up afterwards looking for the
child," Mr. Strassberger said. "We're not doing this maliciously. This is being
done to protect everyone involved -- the child, the birth mother and the
adoptive parents."

But Irene Recio, a lawyer in the Washington office of Baker & McKenzie who is
representing International Mission of Hope as well as the eight families
stranded at the Evergreen Hotel, said the immigration service has not presented
any information indicating anything was wrong in these cases.

"I don't care whether there's been wrongdoing in the past," Ms. Recio said. "If
you're going to keep these babies from coming into the U.S., the I.N.S. must
present credible, reliable, accurate evidence."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Hackensack: I.N.S. To Allow Legal Aid

BYLINE:  By Hope Reeves (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 89 words


Reversing itself, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will permit
civil-liberties lawyers to advise hundreds of foreign nationals held since the
Sept. 11 attacks.

The decision, issued Jan. 11 but not received by the American Civil Liberties
Union of New Jersey until Jan. 24, followed two lawsuits accusing the government
of illegally withholding the names of detainees and the charges against them.
The decision will allow members of the A.C.L.U. to determine whether detainees
require legal assistance.   Hope Reeves (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 1, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: East Quogue: Children Allowed Into U.S.

BYLINE:  By Elissa Gootman (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 132 words


Four of nine Vietnamese children adopted by American parents but blocked from
entering the United States by the Immigration and Naturalization Service will be
allowed to enter the country, the agency announced yesterday. The adoptive
parents, including an East Quogue couple, were among eight families blocked from
bringing the children into America by the I.N.S. because it questioned what it
termed irregularities in the Vietnamese adoption process.

After a seven-week delay, agency officials said yesterday that they had
concluded that the four children had been voluntarily given up for adoption. The
five other children will continue to be denied visas while the agency completes
its investigation, an agency spokesman said. It is to decide by the end of next
week.   Elissa Gootman (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 2, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Soul of a New Political Machine Is Hmong

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 842 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Feb. 1


Early on Election Day here this week, Xy Yang, a Hmong immigrant, took the exam
for United States citizenship. That night she went to the polls.

It did not matter to Ms. Yang, 43, that she could not vote yet, said her son,
John, who took her to the polls. She simply wanted to watch the lines of voters
-- many of them also Hmong refugees who fled Laos three decades ago -- come to
the immigrant-rich precincts of St. Paul's East Side neighborhood to elect one
of their own to state office.

By the end of Tuesday night, Mee Moua, a Democrat, had won handily, winning 51
percent of the vote in a four-way race for the State Senate seat vacated by
Randy Kelly, who was elected mayor of St. Paul in November.

Ms. Moua (pronounced MOOah) became the first Hmong to be elected to an American
state legislature. And, at least in its own eyes, the Hmong community in the
United States had achieved a new status.

"After 25 years, the community is finally engaged in the mainstream political
stream," said Lee Pao Xiong, a Hmong leader in Minneapolis. "We are no longer
visitors to the country."

Ms. Moua, 32, is a lawyer and lobbyist who fled Laos with her family when she
was a child. She characterized her election as a watershed event for the Hmong,
refugees from the wars in Southeast Asia, who struggled to find a place in the
United States.

"What we've done is actually bring to life the Hmong-American identity," Ms.
Moua said. "We've always been viewed as refugees. As a people, we've never
really had a country."

Minnesota is a logical place for such a political first; the Hmong population in
the state has more than doubled since 1990, to nearly 41,000. More than half of
the Hmong live in St. Paul, which has the largest group of Hmong in the country.

But fighting the image that Hmong cannot assimilate easily has been a challenge
even in St. Paul, particularly after several highly publicized violent episodes,
including the case of a Hmong mother who strangled her six children in 1998.

Such domestic conflicts dramatized the stresses on an immigrant group more
isolated and non-Western than nearly any other to come to America, said David
Zander, a cultural anthropoligist with the State Council on Asian-Pacific
Minnesotans, a legislative advisory group.

"Everything you can think about, there's a world view that's different for the
Hmong," Mr. Zander said. Before coming to the United States, the Hmong had
virtually no contact with Western culture, and even after arriving they had
strong beliefs about spirit influence on health, arranged marriages, clan
leadership and the healing power of animal sacrifice.

But in the last three years, younger and more assimilated Hmong, like Ms. Moua,
have become active politically, in part to act as brokers between two cultures,
Mr. Zander said.

Last year, a Hmong ran for the State House of Representatives and another, for
the State Senate, but lost. Ms. Moua's victory, Mr. Zander said, was the first
signal that a Hmong can win wide support among the often divided group and can
do so in a district that is 60 percent white.

"I wouldn't have won with just the Hmong vote alone," Ms. Moua said, sitting in
her modest campaign headquarters, which doubles as her husband's real estate
office. "There were non-Hmong voters who saw me as someone who would represent
them. That's even more significant to the Hmong community."

As a law student at the University of Minnesota, Ms. Moua said, she had dreamed
of creating a system to register and motivate Hmong voters.

Her campaign was helped significantly, she said, by changes in welfare laws in
1996 requiring citizenship for eligibility and by federal laws passed two years
ago allowing Hmong men who worked with American forces in Southeast Asia, as
well as their wives, to take citizenship exams in their native language.

Ms. Moua set up an efficient and aggressive political organization, using scores
of Hmong volunteers. They found the new Hmong citizens, taught them how to vote,
assembled drivers to give them rides to the polls and sent interpreters when
they were needed. In all, her organization was able to turn out a bloc of 800 to
1,000 Hmong voters in both the primary and general elections, her campaign
estimated.

Ms. Moua said she also worked to bridge traditional divisions among Hmong sects,
largely by ignoring the attitudes of Hmong elders, who initially resisted the
idea of a woman as a political leader in her district.

In the end, Ms. Moua's tactics produced an unprecedented Hmong vote in a
district accustomed to small turnouts, and her campaign says it provided the
difference.

In the Democratic primary on Jan. 15, she defeated Tim Mahoney, a state
representative, by 170 votes. On Tuesday, her 51 percent of the vote dwarfed the
29 percent for the runner-up, Greg Copeland, a marketing consultant and a
Republican.

"If anything comes out of this, it is that we have created a political machine,
a Hmong voting bloc," said Tou Ger Xiong, a St. Paul artist and one of Ms.
Moua's campaign coordinators. "This is bigger than Minnesota."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mee Moua and her husband, Yee Chang, were cheered as they
approached the podium at Ms. Moua's campaign headquarters on Tuesday night, when
she was elected to the Minnesota Senate, becoming the first Hmong elected to an
American state legislature. (Carlos Gonzalez/The Star Tribune, via Associated
Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BRIEFING: BUSINESS;
I.N.S. DETAINEES

BYLINE:  By John Holl

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 90 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service changed its policy last week and
agreed to allow advocacy groups to visit foreign nationals held in the Hudson
and Passaic County jails since Sept. 11.

The service will allow such groups as the American Civil Liberties Union and the
American Friends Service Committee to help detainees with legal questions and to
provide representation. There are 460 aliens held nationwide since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, according to the I.N.S., though how many are in New Jersey is
not known.   John Holl

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE DOMESTIC ROUNDUP;
As Authorities Keep Up Immigration Arrests, Detainees Ask Why They Are Targets

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1377 words

DATELINE: CRANSTON, R.I., Jan. 31


In a bare interview room, Mohamed Desouky describes the early morning arrest
that took him from his apartment in Milford, Mass., his pizzeria job and his
Polish girlfriend and left him in the cold regimen of the state prison here.

"I was still asleep, so my roommate answered the door," said Mr. Desouky, 28, an
Egyptian who moved to the United States five years ago. "I woke up when six
F.B.I. agents came into my room. They said they wanted to look around. When they
asked for my passport, I gave it to them. I wasn't going to play games. They saw
my visa was expired. They told us to wash up and come with them. They said we
didn't need to take anything, because we'd be back in a day or two. So I just
took $20 and handed my keys to my girlfriend."

Like hundreds of other Muslim men who have overstayed their visas, Mr. Desouky
and his roommate, also Egyptian, were arrested on immigration charges, caught in
the widening ripples of the post-Sept. 11 terrorism investigation.

By the end of October, more than 1,000 people had been detained. Although the
government would not release the names of those held, the mass roundup was big
news. Hundreds of the detainees -- the government will not say precisely how
many -- remain in custody.

Much news media attention has moved to the detainees taken to Cuba from
Afghanistan, but the arrests in the United States continue, with many police
officers and other local officials playing an aggressive new role in immigration
enforcement.

In Florida, a Jordanian was picked up and detained when he went to renew his
driver's license.

In Virginia, a Moroccan who had registered at a high school the week of the
terrorist attacks was asked for immigration documents. When the guidance
counselor found that his tourist visa had expired, she gave the passport to the
police, who passed it to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
youngster has been detained for four months.

It is unclear just how or why Mr. Desouky and his roommate came to be arrested.
Mr. Desouky said that the federal agents who went to his apartment on Jan. 7
knew his roommate's name and that his roommate had recently transferred $10,000
to Egypt, a transaction that may have inspired the visit.

Although the roommate quickly found a lawyer, agreed to leave the United States
voluntarily and was freed on bail, Mr. Desouky remains in prison, bewildered by
his situation.

"I've never been in any trouble, and now I'm in a jail with murderers," he said.
"It's almost impossible to get through to the outside world. I feel like I've
been put into a movie made somewhere in the middle of China."

He found legal representation only last week. His lawyer, Halim Morris of
Greater Boston Legal Services, said he did not yet know enough about the case to
understand why Mr. Desouky was in prison or to predict the outcome of his case.

"The F.B.I. doesn't seem to have any interest in him as part of the terrorist
investigation," Mr. Morris said. "But the government's opposing bail in all
these cases. Before Sept. 11, no one in this situation would have been
detained."

It has always been illegal to overstay a visa or sneak into the United States.
But as practical matter, with eight million illegal immigrants in the
population, enforcement has been lax. Because the immigration service lacks the
resources to track down violators -- and, many would argue, because the United
States has needed their labor -- most illegal immigrants were left alone.

"Generally in the past, when immigration violations like overstaying your visa
or working without authorization were enforced, it was without detention," Lucas
Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights
Project, said. "Usually no bond was required, and anyone who agreed to leave the
country voluntarily was allowed to leave promptly. Now there is strict
enforcement in a selective and discriminatory way against people from the Middle
East who are denied bond and detained for lengthy periods, even after they've
agreed to leave.

"It's hard to know what's going on, because the Justice Department has refused
to disclose information about people detained post-9/11, and now they're
providing even less information about new arrests."

For Mr. Desouky, the change in enforcement was stark.

"I always knew my visa had expired and I was here illegally, but before it never
seemed to matter," he said. "I never had any trouble finding a job. Some of my
friends got married so they could be legal. But it just wasn't a problem in my
life."

Since Sept. 11, Middle Eastern or South Asian men who are in the country
illegally have been subject to much new scrutiny. Some have been placed in
detention after having been stopped by the police for speeding or not wearing a
seat belt. Others have been picked up at airports, after checking in for
domestic flights and showing passports with expired visas as identification.

The immigration agency said the detentions and deportations were an outgrowth of
the terrorism inquiry, and not a random sweep of Muslims. The agency emphasizes
that the number of Muslims in immigration proceedings remains tiny, compared
with the number of Mexicans.

"Given the inevitable tangential encounters you're going to have with people
from particular countries as a result of the terrorism investigation, it's
understandable that you're going to have a number who are encountered and
arrested because they have immigration violations," a spokesman for the
immigration agency, Russell A. Bergeron Jr., said. "That's not an indiscriminate
targeting of individuals from the Middle East or Muslims.

"To my knowledge, there's been no claim that we have in any way, at any
location, simply gone out into predominantly Arab or Muslim communities and,
without cause, questioned and arrested people."

Some immigration lawyers said who is detained seems to be less a question of
terrorist connections than of racial profiling and random bad luck.

"It's just people who were in the wrong place at the wrong time," said Sohail
Mohammed, a lawyer in Clifton, N.J., who has represented more than 12 Muslim
Middle Eastern clients detained since Sept. 11.

Among Mr. Mohammed's clients are an Egyptian who was lost in Newark and flagged
down a police officer to obtain directions. But instead of giving him
directions, the officer asked for the man's immigration status -- and, after
checking his passport and finding that he was in the country illegally, arrested
him. Mr. Mohammed also represents two Pakistanis, an uncle and a nephew,
arrested in their apartment building after the uncle had bumped into F.B.I.
agents in the stairwell. The agents were checking a tip about other Middle
Eastern men in the building and were leaving after that tip had fizzled just as
the uncle was arriving home from work as a limousine driver. The agents followed
him to his apartment and woke the nephew, who was staying overnight. Both men
had expired visas, and both were arrested.

"The vast majority of the people who got picked up have zero involvement with
any terrorism," said Janet Sabel, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society's
immigration project. "My sense is that they are picked up because of their
religious practices or the way they looked, and then they get cleared by the
F.B.I."

Some immigration experts like Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center
for Immigration Studies in Washington, which supports immigration limits, say
increased enforcement is good.

"If they're illegal aliens, some of whom might conceivably be terrorists, it's
all to the good that the police begin enforcing the law," Mr. Krikorian said.
"Concentrated enforcement on Muslims is not a long-term strategy for enforcing
immigration law. But as a short-term tactic, as triage, it makes sense. If an
illegal alien is arrested, put in jail and sent back home, I don't have much
sympathy for the complaint that we didn't used to do that."

Mr. Desouky, who has a hearing on Wednesday in Boston, said he hoped that he
would be able to stay.

"I might have to go back to Egypt," said Mr. Desouky, whose family is in
Alexandria. "I don't know if I stand a chance to stay in this country or not.
Mostly I want to know, if I leave, how long would it be before I could come
back?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohamed Desouky was taken from his home by F.B.I. agents. (Rhode
Island Department of Corrections)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alien Nation

BYLINE:  By Christopher Caldwell;  Christopher Caldwell is a senior editor at
The Weekly Standard.

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1127 words


THE DEATH OF THE WEST
How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and
Civilization.
By Patrick J. Buchanan.
308 pp. New York:
Thomas Dunne Books/St. Martin's Press. $25.95.

THROUGH a syndicated column, a long career as a CNN pundit and three quixotic
presidential campaigns, the former Republican presidential aide Patrick J.
Buchanan has established himself as the country's most prominent foe of
immigration. In his tirade "The Death of the West," he makes clear that he sees
newcomers as only part of the problem. Braiding two separate complaints, he
argues, first, that plummeting birthrates will make white people a minority in
much of the West; and, second, that an intolerant liberal elite has transformed
America's culture, wrecking its most precious traditions -- which happen to be
its bulwark against getting swamped by foreigners.

Buchanan's demographic alarum marks the re-emergence of a genre of racial-doom
books not seen (for reasons that are obvious enough) since before World War II.
In 1960 a quarter of humanity was of European descent, Buchanan notes; today
whites make up just a sixth of the human race, and they're aging. The American
birthrate is below replacement level for the first time since the Depression. Of
the 22 countries with the world's lowest birthrates, 20 are in Europe, and
Spain's median age will be 55 in a few decades. Barbarians will soon be at the
gates. Only 8 million Russians will be living in the mineral- and oil-rich lands
east of the Urals, irresistible lebensraum for a Chinese population rising
toward 1.5 billion. Europe's generous welfare states, viable in a society that
has 5 workers per retiree, will buckle once that ratio falls to 2. Short on
labor, Europe must choose either penury for its elderly or a huge immigration
from Africa and a "second great Islamic wave."

Buchanan's explanation of what sent our own country to hell in a handbasket is
the standard-issue cultural-conservative one. Abortion, pornography, euthanasia,
gun control and political correctness are the crimes; feminists, liberal judges
and Marxisant scholars are the perpetrators. Americans of different stripes will
agree with at least some of Buchanan's assertions: that racial activism has
taken on aspects of a religion in the hands of the hard left, that international
prosecutors pursue rightists like Augusto Pinochet with far more zeal than
leftists like Fidel Castro, that the ideology of "human rights" was put to the
service of imperialism in Kosovo, that "hate crimes" legislation has less to do
with justice than with ideological special pleading, that political correctness
-- the punctiliousness that Americans bring to matters of race, gender and
sexual orientation -- maintains a tenacious hold on public life, chilling free
discussion. Future historians will snicker at it, as we do at Victorian prudery;
but they will also shudder, as we do at McCarthyite persecution.

Still, just as there were real perverts in Victoria's day and real Stalinists in
McCarthy's, there are real segregationists in our own. Buchanan focuses to the
point of obsession on the crusade against symbols of the Confederacy, from
Virginia's abolition of Confederate History Month to the vandalism of a statue
in Selma of the Confederate general and Klansman Nathan Bedford Forrest. While
claiming to reject "the blood-and-soil idea of a nation," he does not recognize
a difference between "civilization" on the one hand and race on the other. You
can tell this by the way he flings around the term "third world" as a synonym
for "nonwhite." California, he says, "is on its way to becoming a predominantly
third world state" (which will surely be news to the English biochemists and
French stockbrokers queued up to enter it).

Much of this provocation is surely ladled out just to rile the bien-pensants.
Buchanan loves ideological dust-ups ("The pill and condom have become the hammer
and sickle of the cultural revolution") and purple oratory ("Western women are
terminating their pregnancies at a rate that represents autogenocide for peoples
of European ancestry"). His signal debating trick is a cheap one, ever beloved
of rabble-rousers -- to take a broad historical trend and find someone to
scapegoat for it. Thus, Republicans are fleeing social issues not because they
cost votes but because "the media have whispered in Republican ears." The 20
years after World War II were a "golden age of marriage," but this superb modus
vivendi "fell apart in the 1960's, when feminists managed to add 'sex' to the
discriminations forbidden by the sweeping Civil Rights Act of 1964." And
Americans, in his reading, were duped out of their ancestral faiths by a few
wily atheistic savants from the Frankfurt School, Theodor Adorno and Herbert
Marcuse chief among them.

Buchanan is now reflexively hostile to any evidence that the United States
retains any strong points at all. He deplores the fact that no top college has
an American history requirement. But clearly universities are doing something
right, for in what other country does the biography of a hitherto little-studied
18th-century politician spend months on the best-seller list, as David
McCullough's "John Adams" has done? Buchanan also detects, quoting James
Burnham, a "deepening loss, among the leaders of the West, of confidence in
themselves and in the unique quality of their own civilization." This is a
bizarre complaint from one who rails at the International Monetary Fund and at
the "braggadocio" of those who declare the United States the world's only
superpower. Western leaders, in fact, are self-confident as never before -- and
the central pillar of that self-confidence is their belief that, to some extent,
all cultures are becoming Western ones.

In 1992, Buchanan electrified the Republican National Convention with a
declaration that Americans were locked in a "religious war" and a "cultural war"
for the nation's soul. What distinguishes "The Death of the West" from his
lament then is that today he considers that war decisively lost. "A new
generation has now grown up," he writes, "for whom the cultural revolution is
not a revolution at all, but the culture they were born into and have known all
their lives." Far from coming to an accommodation with this new order, he is
past even wishing the country well: cultural revolutionaries "have replaced the
good country we grew up in with a cultural wasteland and a moral sewer that are
not worth living in and not worth fighting for -- their country, not ours."
Having spent years fighting what he took to be a dangerous faction in American
life, Pat Buchanan has come to realize that what he has been fighting is America
itself. He has decided he prefers the fight to the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Keeping Tabs on Foreign Students

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 182 words


To the Editor:

Readers of "Efforts to Track Foreign Students Are Said to Lag" (front page, Jan.
28) might assume that most institutions of higher education are opposed to
tracking foreign students. In fact, in the aftermath of Sept. 11, I worked
closely with college and university officials to craft a viable electronic
system to track the entry of foreign students into the United States.

Higher education associations have endorsed student visa reforms that I
introduced in Congress. And they have pledged to work with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to track the entry of foreign students.

One school official you quoted asserted that Congress has "overreacted." This
view ignores the gravity of the harm that resulted from the vulnerabilities in
the current immigration system. Several thousand innocent people -- including
foreign nationals -- were killed on Sept. 11 in part because a network of
fanatics determined to wreak death, destruction and terror managed to enter our
country without detection.

DIANNE FEINSTEIN
U.S. Senator from California
Washington, Feb. 1, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 4, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Keeping Tabs on Foreign Students

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 191 words


To the Editor:

"Efforts to Track Foreign Students Are Said to Lag" (front page, Jan. 28)
reported on a letter I sent to the Immigration and Naturalization Service about
the electronic system to track international students. My letter states: "We
believe it represents the single most important step the federal government can
take to improve the monitoring of international students and exchange visitors.

We strongly support the prompt implementation of this system . . ."

Our campuses have been collecting and storing this very data for more than 30
years. We stopped sending it to the immigration service at the agency's request.

One year from now, the immigration service must implement a tracking system that
will electronically link 74,000 educational institutions with countless I.N.S.
and State Department offices around the world.  To date, our campuses have
received no word on software, technical compatibility and training programs for
staff. Any office technology manager would want answers to these and countless
other questions about process and time line.

DAVID WARD
President
American Council on Education
Washington, Jan. 29, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 5, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jidda Journal;
Muslims Feel Sept. 11 Chill As Mecca Plays It Cautious

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

DATELINE: JIDDA, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 4


As the hajj pilgrimage season gets under way, the Saudis are seeking security in
the blink of an eye.

Up to 1.5 million pilgrims are descending on the kingdom for the largest annual
mass migration of people on the planet -- and the Saudis have begun collecting
personal data from these Muslim visitors to start a system for tracking and
identifying them.

Bleary-eyed travelers, many of whom have disembarked from the first plane ride
of their lives, are randomly chosen at Passport Control to have their eyes
digitally scanned by an American security company. In an adjoining entry hall, a
French fingerprinting firm that does work for the United States Postal Service
and the New York Police Department digitally scans index fingers. Its motto:
"Security at your fingertips."

The official explanation for the new security procedures is that they are an
immigration tool aimed at preventing pilgrims from overstaying their visas and
settling down in the kingdom -- the eye scans and fingerprints are matched when
they leave to make sure they are who they claim to be. But there is another
purpose as well. At times the hajj has been a place of political mobilization as
well as prayer, and in the wake of Sept. 11, the Saudi government is eager to
try new ways to identify potential security threats.

"This is our latest program to prevent people from tampering with their
passports, and we're demonstrating how it works," said Rudolph Saleh, a Lebanese
who is in charge of the eye-scanning devices. "But of course it's also a
security system to prevent other crimes."

Security has always been a challenge during the hajj, which involves a four-day
series of rituals for all participants, culminating this year on Feb. 21 with a
trip to Mount Arafat. In addition to the Muslim visitors from abroad, about one
million Saudis and other Muslims living in the kingdom travel to Mecca and the
other holy sites to perform the rituals that all able-bodied Muslims must do
once in their lives.

Over the years, the hajj has been marred by fire, disease, demonstrations,
stampedes and riots. Osama bin Laden and others who support him have said they
were offended by the presence of American "infidel" troops in Saudi Arabia
because it is home to the holiest Muslim sites.

Authorities in the Ministry of Pilgrimage and Endowments and in civil aviation
insist that visitors have arrived at an oasis of calm. "I tell you frankly,
things are cooling down since Sept. 11," said Sami Magboul, director general of
King Abdul Aziz International Airport in Jidda, the port city on the Red Sea. "I
can say that Saudis are not a threat anywhere in the world."

As for the pilgrims coming from outside Saudi Arabia, Mr. Magboul said, "Believe
it or not, I don't think any Muslim with religion in his heart would try to hurt
someone or kill someone."

A foreign diplomat who is also a Muslim is not so sanguine. "They all insist
everything is fine," he said. "There's almost a sense of 'God will provide for
us.' The level of denial is extraordinary and dangerous."

In 1979, a Sunni Muslim claiming to be the savior and his followers seized the
Grand Mosque of Mecca, Islam's holiest site and the birthplace of the Prophet
Muhammad. More than 100 people died in a long siege with Saudi forces.

In 1987, 402 were killed in clashes with Iranian protesters at the Grand Mosque
after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran branded the Saudi royal family "vile
and ungodly" and unworthy of being in charge of Islam's holiest shrines.

This year, the disclosure that 15 of the 19 hijackers involved in the Sept. 11
attacks held Saudi citizenship has been received with a blend of denial,
disbelief, humiliation and horror.

Organizing the hajj, by far the most momentous political and social event of the
year here, is a logistical tour de force. The government estimates that it
spends $1 billion as the host, and the pilgrims spend $1 billion to come. Except
for V.I.P.'s, all come on organized tours.

The tour operators must deal with 70 languages and people from 100 countries.
Many are elderly or illiterate; many have never used a flush toilet.

"The pilgrim needs to be given food, drink, shelter, transportation, medical
treatment," said Dr. Fouad Angawi, a historian of the hajj whose family has
worked as an official organizer for generations.

"He needs to visit the holy places, be taught what to say, know where to shop
and sacrifice a sheep or a cow or camel. Everything is taken care of."

"The hajj," he added, "is like a war."

Most pilgrims from abroad arrive at the special Hajj Terminal far away from the
regular terminals at Jidda's international airport. The white-pillared, open-air
structure covered in 210 fiberglass tents offers A.T.M.'s, international
telephone lines, air-conditioned cafeterias, a hospital, prayer stations, free
bottled water and 1,100 toilets. Pilgrims can buy apples from Washington State
and oranges from Egypt.

All bags are X-rayed upon arrival, and most are hand-searched for weapons and
contraband. "So far we haven't seen any bombs -- just drugs," said one soldier.
Several days ago, he added, a man from India was arrested with more than four
pounds of heroin.

Using pictures, posters advise pilgrims to avoid sharing razor blades and to
cover their mouths when they cough. Even though all pilgrims must be vaccinated
in advance against diseases like meningitis, many arrive wearing surgical masks.

A Saudi soldier greeting a planeload of Indonesian pilgrims dressed in
cornflower blue and white had learned how to say "The peace of God be upon you"
in their native tongue. Nigerian women in orange and green passed by Iranian
Kurds in jewel-colored dress and women in white from the Maldives. Many men had
already shed their street clothes and donned two pieces of white cloth, one
wrapped around the waist and knotted with a cord, the other draped over the left
shoulder, to signify equality in the eyes of God.

Pilgrims are organized by nationality, given three forms of identification,
including a hospital-type bracelet and escorted directly to tour buses bound for
Mecca. Political activity that may detract from the spirituality is banned, but
not commerce, and pilgrims come laden with things to sell: pistachios from Iran,
inlaid wooden boxes from Syria, silks from India, nesting dolls from Russia,
fresh-water pearls from Chechnya.

For some years, security cameras have been monitoring the main roads and bridges
and tunnels, and helicopters have been used for surveillance.

Even if tragedy strikes, the pilgrims have been taught to accept God's will.
"Afraid? Not at all," said a 50-year-old Indian woman who had just arrived from
London with her son and his wife. "I have been planning for this journey since I
was 6 years old. I feel that I am close to God now that I have arrived. And if
God takes me while I am here, I would be blessed."

Although nonbelievers are banned from Mecca, an Egyptian pilgrim was eager to
tell an American Christian how she could come along. "There is a way," she said
in Arabic. "If only you were a Muslim. God willing, you will see the truth. God
willing, you will convert."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A random eye scan is one of the post-Sept. 11 Saudi security
measures as throngs arrive for the annual hajj. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York
Times)(pg. A1); In Jidda, airport posters warn arriving hajj pilgrims to cover
their mouths when they cough. Even though all travelers must be vaccinated in
advance against diseases like meningitis, many arrive wearing surgical masks.;
Under tight security, Indonesian pilgrims arrived at King Abdul Aziz
International Airport in Jidda, which a Saudi official says is an oasis of calm.
(Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. A4) Map of Saudi Arabia
highlighting Mecca. (pg. A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Poughkeepsie: Adopted Child Goes Home

BYLINE:  By Elissa Gootman (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 117 words


A Poughkeepsie woman and her adopted Vietnamese daughter returned home Tuesday
night, after a nearly two-month delay in which the Immigration and
Naturalization Service questioned whether the 4-month-old baby had been properly
put up for adoption.

The woman, the Rev. Sharon L. Williams, and her husband, the Rev. J. Wayne
Hanrattie, were among eight American families who had traveled to Vietnam to
adopt nine children. The children were denied visas at first because of the
I.N.S. inquiry. In the past week, the I.N.S. has granted visas to seven of the
children, but the status of the last two is in doubt. "We have found serious
concerns," an I.N.S. spokesman said yesterday.   Elissa Gootman (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DOMESTIC DEFENSES;
Ridge Meeting Opposition From Agencies

BYLINE:  By JOEL BRINKLEY and PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1001 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6


Four months into his tenure as director of homeland security, Tom Ridge is
facing significant doubts about his authority and ability to do his job.

The law enforcement agencies he is supposed to coordinate remain fiercely
protective of their own power and independence. Mr. Ridge does not have direct
authority over any of the agencies, even as spending for domestic security
surges. And while officials from several of the agencies said they appreciate
Mr. Ridge, respect him and get along with him well, some came close to being
dismissive of his office's effectiveness and influence over their operations.

"Let's face it, Tom Ridge's office is brand new," said James Ziglar, the
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "They are still
getting organized, and they don't have anybody over there who are experts on
immigration, customs, border enforcement. That's why they necessarily have to
rely on us."

And Robert C. Bonner, the commissioner of Customs, said of Mr. Ridge's office,
"I sense that they share our broad objectives" on negotiations with Canada over
border-security issues, "but now that we are getting down to the fine point of
negotiations with the Canadians, that is a Customs function."

Mr. Ridge, in a meeting with executives and editors of The New York Times today,
acknowledged the problem with a smile but said it was too soon to make a
judgment. He will put out a master plan for coordinating domestic security soon,
he said.

"There may be some fusion of these agencies," he added, alluding to his proposal
to combine the agencies responsible for border enforcement -- an idea that their
managers vigorously oppose.

Still, Mr. Ridge said: "We need to change our border strategy so there is only
one face greeting people, instead of the way it is now where one agency looks in
the trunk and another looks in the back seat. But I know my colleagues resist
this consolidation."

Asked if President Bush supported this proposal, he said, "The president knows I
feel strongly about this, and he said 'drive it forward, show me that it's a
good idea.' "

Still, a senior administration official said the Justice Department and the
other agencies were alarmed by the border-security proposal and suggested that
it threatened to sour relations with Mr. Ridge's office.

"People really thought that Ridge got ahead of himself and tried to ram this
through," the official said. "It wasn't just the Justice Department. It was all
of the agencies that were going to be affected. All of them thought this was
handled very poorly." At the same time, however, the official said Mr. Ridge had
a "fine personal relationship" with Attorney General John Ashcroft and other
senior law-enforcement officials.

Representative Jane Harman of California, ranking Democrat on the Select
Intelligence Subcommittee on Terrorism and Homeland Security, said she believed
Mr. Ridge had been outmaneuvered by cabinet officials who had been opposed to
the creation of his office in the first place.

His border plan, she said, "was dead on arrival."

In December, Mr. Ridge and John Manley, Canada's foreign minister, signed an
agreement on measures designed to enhance security along the northern border.
But once again, the major agencies responsible for border security said they
were handling the issue on their own.

"Well before the Ridge-Manley accord," said Mr. Bonner, the Customs
commissioner, "we had started meeting with our Canadian counterparts to
significantly improve security against the terrorist threat."

Mr. Ziglar, the immigration commissioner, echoed that sentiment.

"The truth is that most of the initiatives that came out of that trip in early
December, these were points that were already brewing here," he said.
"Everything in the Ridge-Manley document was already on the table and close to
having something done on it."

Several members of Congress and former government officials said they believed
Mr. Ridge could not be effective unless he had control of the agencies' budgets.

Mr. Ridge said Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the White House budget director, had
turned the 2003 budget proposals from the major enforcement agencies over to him
a few weeks ago and given him an extra two weeks to propose changes, since he
was relatively new to the administration.

Mr. Ridge said he asked for significant additional money for several of the
agencies, and "everything I asked for, I got." The budget calls for $37.7
billion in spending for domestic security -- double the amount in the present
budget.

Representative Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican who has been a
strong supporter of Mr. Ridge, said he believed the questions about Mr. Ridge's
authority were specious because "everyone knows that if you cross Tom Ridge, you
cross the president of the United States."

But former Senator Gary Hart, who was co-chairman of the commission on national
security, said, "If you think about that for even 10 seconds, you realize that
he will have to go into the Oval Office and ask for help every time there's a
problem with an agency" -- something Mr. Hart said few if any officials would be
eager to do.

Mr. Ridge said that, as an adviser to the president, he cannot succeed unless he
manages to build consensus around his ideas.

"Even if I ran a department, I would still need approval for anything I wanted
to do from the Hill," he said.

In interviews, both Democrats and Republicans spoke charitably about Mr. Ridge,
but some of them suggested that he needed to do some work to form a partnership
with Congress. Some expressed irritation over Mr. Ridge's refusal to accept
certain invitations to testify before committees. Mr. Ridge said he believed the
officials who actually directed operational agencies ought to serve as
witnesses.

Even Mr. Shays, who considers himself a strong friend and ally, said he was
frustrated by his inability to get Mr. Ridge or others in the homeland security
office on the phone.

"They've got a good wall up," he said, "and it is a little unsettling."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Ridge addressed uniformed services responding on Sept. 11.
(James Estrin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 994 words


INTERNATIONAL   A3-12

Palestinian State Likely, Sharon Affirms to Bush
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel reiterated that he expected to see a
Palestinian state at the end of the Middle East peace process, and President
Bush said Washington would maintain pressure on Yasir Arafat to crack down on
Palestinian violence.   A12

Passenger Storms Cockpit
An unarmed passenger described as mentally disturbed or drunk tried to break
down the door to the cockpit on a United Airlines flight from Miami to Buenos
Aires, but was subdued and arrested upon landing. American and Argentine
officials said there was no evidence suggesting terrorism.   A6


U.S. Admonishes Haiti
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said at a meeting of Caribbean foreign
ministers that the United States would block millions of dollars in loans and
aid to Haiti until it curbed political violence and resolved an election dispute
dating to 2000.   A5

British Immigration Proposal
The government proposed that future immigrants demonstrate English language
skills and knowledge of British values before getting citizenship.   A12

World Briefing   A8

NATION CHALLENGED   A10-11

Taliban, but Not Qaeda, To Come Under Geneva Rules
President Bush decided that the Geneva Convention would be applied to Taliban
captives being held in Cuba but not to Al Qaeda detainees, a decision that will
make little difference in the day-to-day treatment of either but may help
protect American soldiers captured in foreign conflicts.   A1

Improving Liaison on Ground
The American commander for Afghanistan, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, said he had
ordered officers to tighten coordination with their Afghan allies in the wake of
a raid last month that might have mistakenly killed anti-Taliban troops.   A10

Early Hijacking Suspicions
Officials of the Minnesota flight school where Zacharias Moussaoui raised
suspicions that led to his arrest and charges linked to the Sept. 11 hijackings
discussed his conduct at the school and the e-mail message that was their first
contact with him.   A1

NATIONAL   A14-20

Boston Priests Suspended After Sex Abuse Is Alleged
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston said it had suspended six more priests
from all assignments because of accusations that they sexually molested children
in the past. Their names were reported to law enforcement authorities.   A14

4 From Texas Recaptured
Four escaped prisoners -- two convicted of murder and two facing murder charges
-- were in custody after surrendering in Ardmore, Okla.   A20

Money Crunch for States
Most state governments are facing widening budget gaps as costs rise in
Medicaid, education and other expensive programs, a survey found.   A16

Bush Nominee Under Scrutiny
Charles W. Pickering, nominated for a federal appellate judgeship, defended his
record and qualifications at a Senate confirmation hearing that became a
retrospective of the civil rights era in Mississippi.   A16

Abortion Procedure Challenge
The Bush administration asked the federal appeals court in Cincinnati to uphold
Ohio's latest version of a ban on a medical procedure that opponents call
partial birth abortion.   A18

$275,000 Farm Subsidy Cap
The Senate voted to cut in half the amount of money the biggest farmers could
receive.   A14

Deal on Faith Initiative
President Bush and Senate negotiators reached agreement on a bill to give money
to religious charities.   A19

Resistance to Highway Cuts
Senior members of Congress from both parties said they would reject President
Bush's proposal for a 28 percent reduction in federal highway spending, one of
the largest cuts in the entire budget.   A19

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-8

Museum May Not Move To Tweed Courthouse
Mayor Bloomberg is reconsidering a plan to move the Museum of the City of New
York from East Harlem to the lavishly renovated Tweed Courthouse in Lower
Manhattan.   B1

Judicial Oversight in Brooklyn
The state's top judges appointed a new administrative judge to oversee the State
Supreme Court in Brooklyn, where the conduct of at least five judges is under
investigation.   B1

Church Inquiry of Minister
The Rev. David Benke, who holds a position that is the Lutheran equivalent of
bishop, was accused by fellow pastors of heresy and idolatry for participating
in an interfaith service.   B1

SPORTS   D1-8

The Games Begin
The 19th Winter Olympics get under way in Salt Lake City today.   A1

President Bush is expected to attend opening ceremonies tonight, and security
will be as high as at anytime during the 17 days of competition.   D1

WEEKEND   E1-30; E31-42

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Blood Test for Ovarian Cancer
Researchers said they had taken a step toward developing a reliable blood test
for ovarian cancer, which is usually diagnosed late, and as a result is often
fatal.   A18

Resetting the Body's Clock
Scientists discovered a new class of light-sensing cells in the retina that
appear to reset the body's biological clock each morning and night.   A20

OBITUARIES   A20-21

Max Perutz
The father of molecular biology, who received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in
1962, was 87.   A21

BUSINESS DAY   C1-16

Enron Officials Differ
Lawmakers heard conflicting testimony from the former chief executive, Jeffrey
K. Skilling, who portrayed himself as ignorant of questionable practices, and
other executives who said he had warnings.   A1

In 2000, Citigroup created a type of security that functioned as an insurance
policy and shielded it from losses if Enron ran into trouble.   C1

Credit-rating agencies saw signs of Enron's deteriorating finances by last May,
but did little to warn investors until after problems emerged.   C1

Business Digest   C1

World Business   W1

EDUCATION

Doing Away With Some Tests
New Jersey's education commissioner proposed eliminating some assessment tests
for grades 4, 8 and 11.   B1

EDITORIAL   A22-23

Editorials: Ignorance was bliss; betraying the unemployed; good bill, bad
politics; belated justice in Egypt.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword   E40
Public Lives   B2
TV Listings   B28
Weather   D8

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain Proposes Changes in Asylum Process

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 7


Britain proposed today that future immigrants would have to demonstrate language
skills and knowledge of British values to obtain citizenship.

Home Secretary David Blunkett issued a broad program to be submitted to
Parliament that seeks to speed up the asylum process, deport more rapidly those
who do not meet requirements for residence and speed new arrivals'
identification with their adopted country.

Knowledge of English -- or Gaelic or Welsh -- would become "mandatory" for those
applying for British nationality as well as a rudimentary grasp of "our laws,
our values, our institutions," Mr. Blunkett said.

The Home Office proposals follow by two months the publication of a report
saying that ethnic minorities in Britain were leading separate lives from whites
and had no sense of belonging to the same nation.

Mr. Blunkett argued that a credible asylum policy would rob white supremacist
groups of an issue to exploit. The plan, he said, would "settle once and for all
the fear that the asylum issue, as opposed to overall policy on nationality and
immigration, will constantly reappear as a political football and as a weapon in
the armory of the National Front."

Under Mr. Blunkett's plans, immigrants will be asked to take part in citizenship
ceremonies and take a civic responsibility pledge that he likened to
naturalization procedures in the United States. Applicants would be required to
complete language and citizenship courses so, he said, that holding a British
passport would not just mean a "piece of paper arriving in a brown envelope
alongside the gas bill."

Another innovation, an arrangement to make it easier for people who fill a gap
in the work force to stay in Britain as long as their labor is needed, takes its
cue from the American green card system.

The proposed oath reads: "I will respect the rights and freedoms of the United
Kingdom. I will uphold its democratic values. I will observe its laws faithfully
and fulfill my duties as and obligations as a British citizen."

Today's proposal also calls for setting up new "overseas gateways" where genuine
asylum seekers can apply without having to make dangerous journeys to enter
Britain illegally. British officials complain that the country's relatively
tolerant asylum policy makes it a soft touch for illegal asylum seekers.

The Conservatives' shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, generally supported the
government's initiative but faulted it for not cracking down on crowded refugee
centers like the one at Sangatte near Calais in France where would-be entrants
to Britain try almost nightly to enter the country illegally through the Channel
tunnel. "Our big concern is while he has addressed the domestic issues, he has
failed to tackle the international problems," Mr. Letwin said of Mr. Blunkett's
plan.

In that connection, today's proposal said a new immigration hot line would be
set up so that informants could tell the authorities about people contemplating
illegal entry into the country. The home secretary also said Britain would
increase the number of spaces where failed asylum seekers could be detained
before being sent home.

Addressing an issue that has provoked cultural and generational clashes in
British cities with large Asian populations, Mr. Blunkett said that in the case
of arranged marriages, the unions ought to be between people already in the
country rather than with someone flown in from the Indian subcontinent.

The deputy secretary general of the Muslim Council of Britain, Mahmoud
al-Rashid, said most people were content to marry someone in Britain, but he
protested the government's policy. "To assume that the cultures of people are so
different that you cannot transfer from one country to another country is
wrong," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 8, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: DETAINEES;
Civil Rights Groups Allowed to Visit Two Jails in New Jersey

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER DREW

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 415 words


After repeated complaints from civil rights organizations, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service allowed several of the groups into two jails in New
Jersey this week to talk to foreigners detained as a result of investigations
into terrorism.

The I.N.S. has said it is holding 460 such people nationwide, with two of the
largest clusters in Hudson and Passaic Counties, in New Jersey. Many are Arabs
or Muslims who were picked up for questioning on immigration violations and are
awaiting deportation.

Jail officials have let personal lawyers, family members and friends visit some
of the detainees. But they had not previously given access to an array of civil
rights groups, some of which have filed suits to try to penetrate the secrecy
surrounding the detentions.

"Generally, we were pleased that the I.N.S. allowed us to visit," said Allyson
Collins, an associate director at Human Rights Watch in Washington.

Representatives of the groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union and
Amnesty International USA, visited the Hudson and Passaic County jails on
Wednesday. Immigration officials in Newark took journalists on a tour of the
Hudson County jail yesterday but would not allow interviews with any detainees.

The civil rights advocates described conditions at the Hudson County jail, a
six-story concrete block building, as reasonably good. They said they were shown
only small parts of the Passaic jail.

The Hudson County jail's director, Ralph Green, told reporters that the
detainees lived apart from inmates held on state criminal charges, though the
two groups attend prayer services and educational classes together.

The I.N.S. pays the jail $77 a day to house each of the detainees. About two
dozen of them lingered in a common area yesterday morning, watching television
and talking at tables with stainless-steel tops.

The jail employs a Muslim imam, or spiritual leader, and provides for daily
prayers. But some inmates have complained that they had trouble arranging a
group prayer service during Ramadan last year.

Many of the detainees in the New Jersey jails were originally stopped for minor
problems, like traffic violations, or because neighbors viewed them as
suspicious. In most cases, lawyers say, local F.B.I. agents quickly determined
that they were not involved in the Sept. 11 terror attacks. But F.B.I. officials
in Washington and overseas have been checking to make sure the detainees have no
other ties to terrorism before sending them home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

FEBRUARY 3-9: NATIONAL;
IMMIGRATION HIGH

BYLINE:  By Janny Scott

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 85 words


The number of foreign-born residents and children of immigrants in the U.S. has
climbed to its highest level in history, the Census Bureau announced.

More than a quarter are from Mexico; that is the largest share held by any
country since 1890, when Germany accounted for 30 percent. On average, they are
more urban, less educated and less affluent than other Americans, but as likely
to be in the labor force.  They make up 20 percent of the population -- less
than the 1910 peak of 35 percent.   Janny Scott

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: Briefly Noted;
PROTEST IN NEW JERSEY

BYLINE:  By Christopher Drew (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 111 words


About half the nearly 100 people jailed in Middlesex County, N.J., on
immigration charges are refusing to eat some meals.

Among their complaints are the length of their detentions and inadequate medical
treatment, several detainees said. Kerry Gill, Immigration and Naturalization
Service spokesman in Newark, said it was hard to say how many detainees were
involved. The warden, Michael T. Abode, said that rather than go hungry, some
detainees had bought food at the commissary, which sells candy and instant soup.
Immigration and jail officials denied there were serious problems at the jail
but said they would look into the complaints.   Christopher Drew (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 16, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Affected by 9/11 Are Hard to Reach

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 508 words


A day after three major charities announced a last-minute extension for victims
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attack to apply for emergency cash grants, charitable
organizations and social service agencies scrambled yesterday to get the word
out to a group that has probably received the least, and most contradictory,
information to date: non-English-speaking immigrants.

But even with a two-week postponement of the deadline to March 8, some groups
believe that logistically it is still too difficult to contact the tens of
thousands of people in Lower Manhattan who have not applied. As a result, some
groups said yesterday that they still thought the deadline was arbitrary and
hasty, and therefore should be waived altogether.

Together, the three charities -- the American Red Cross, the Salvation Army and
Safe Horizon -- have disbursed more than $250 million in emergency assistance to
50,000 displaced workers and other individuals who lost income because of the
attack. And on Feb. 8, the charities established a Feb. 22 cutoff date for
applicants to make appointments, saying that it was time to shift attention from
emergency assistance to long-term help.

On Thursday, though, the charities decided to postpone the deadline, in part
because of concerns that some people were still unaware of the deadlines, or
even of the programs. And yesterday, the Sept. 11 Fund -- which has been the
primary source of money for Safe Horizon and has provided another $70 million in
assistance to displaced workers -- held a press conference to reach out to the
ethnic press and emphasize that noncitizens, too, are eligible for assistance,
regardless of their status.

Immigrant advocacy groups said that while they were pleased by the extension,
they were still concerned that immigrants would be reluctant to apply by March 8
because of linguistic and cultural barriers.

"What we're hearing from community groups is that they are still reaching people
every day who are unaware of the benefit programs and the eligibility
requirements," said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York
Immigration Coalition. "So it's a slow process both to get the correct
information, identify people who are eligible and arrange times for them to go
to the centers."

While each charity has established its own eligibility criteria, the basic
requirements have included anyone who worked below Canal Street, lost a
significant portion of income or has been unemployed any time between Sept. 11
and either Dec. 31 or Jan. 11.

Business entities, by contrast, have no deadline, and in fact are eligible for
assistance from additional sources, including the federal government, said
Nicole Elkon, a spokeswoman for the 9/11 United Services Group, which is
coordinating relief efforts among several charities.

Jeanine Moss, a spokeswoman for the Sept. 11 Fund, said: "It's very challenging
to establish the boundaries under which you can help people. We have a
responsibility not only to help people, but also to keep faith with our donors
and our donors' intentions."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 17, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CONCOURSE;
Little Africa Flourishes, Fufu Flour And All

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


Gambia is the smallest country on mainland Africa, less than two-thirds the area
of its nearest competitor, Swaziland. But when school lets out at C.E.S. 88 on
Sheridan Avenue and Marcy Place, it is a safe bet that most of those mothers
wearing colorful turbans and speaking in foreign tongues are from that sliver of
land on the continent's westernmost tip.

In the last decade, as West African immigrants have displaced some of the
Dominicans, Jamaicans and others who live just south of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital
Center, they have done so largely by country. The result is outposts of West
Africa, with one block of Gambians and another area several blocks away of
people from Ivory Coast and Guinea.

Across the street from C.E.S. 88 is the Masjid Lwabahu, a four-year-old Gambian
mosque in a first-floor apartment. Five times a day, Gambian Muslims kneel along
lines duct-taped onto the mosque's rugs to direct their prayers toward Mecca.
And after school, its floor is covered with squirming Gambian children studying
the Koran in Arabic.

That is at least their third language; at home they speak Soninke, a tongue
spoken in Gambia, and in school they speak English.

West African businesses have been springing up in the neighborhood, too.
Stephane Kaffi recently left a computer job at Bear, Stearns to open Ma Jolie
African Market on nearby 169th Street. He said he felt there was unmet demand
for his wares, which include fufu flour, pistachio butter and three brands of
palm nut cream, used for cooking.

Amara Kenneh, who lives down Sheridan Avenue in the Guinean and Ivoirian
section, is a taxi driver and an imam at another local mosque, Masjid Noor
Islam. Mr. Kenneh arrived 10 years ago and claims he was the first West African
on the block.

His neighborhood also has an African market, he said, as well as both a
barbershop and an auto repair place run by Africans. And not all these African
businesses are visible from the street. An African tailor works from his own
apartment.

"Anything we need here, we can go to our people to get it," Mr. Kenneh said.

Then he dropped a bombshell. He is from Liberia. How could that be?

"I'll tell you the trick," Mr. Kenneh said, with a broad smile. "My parents are
from Guinea."

But such distinctions are lost on some local Latino and West Indian residents,
who call the newer arrivals Africans or "los africanos."

Baba Sakanoko, a Gambian, explained, "They think Africa is like when you say
Jamaica or Puerto Rico."   SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephane Kaffi left Bear, Stearns to open Ma Jolie African
Market. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 18, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fine-Tuning For Privacy, Hong Kong Plans Digital ID

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Feb. 15


The border crossing between Hong Kong and mainland China was choked the other
day as more than five million people took to the road to visit their relatives
for the Chinese New Year.

It is an annual ordeal, marked by restless jostling and muttered curses as the
crowd waits, sometimes for hours, while the guards examine people's papers. It
may also be a thing of the past.

Starting next year, Hong Kong plans to introduce an identity card with a
computer chip that will contain a digital replica of the cardholder's
thumbprint. To cross the China frontier, a person with the card will hold it
against an optical reader while placing his or her thumb on a screen.

If the prints match, the traveler will pass through -- a procedure that Hong
Kong officials say will last but a second.

"You don't have to have an immigration officer there to look at the card," said
Eric T. P. Wong, the deputy director of Hong Kong's immigration department.
"It's just a self-service kiosk."

Fears of terrorism have prompted some Americans, too, to call for the United
States to issue a national identity card. In Hong Kong in recent weeks, the
focus of the campaign has shifted toward creating uniform standards that would
allow driver's licenses to be used as de facto ID cards.

Identity cards have existed in Hong Kong for half a century, and digital
technology is now revolutionizing the uses of such a card -- making it a
potentially indispensable tool of daily life but raising new fears about privacy
and the use of personal data.

"We're not opposed to people having to carry ID cards," said Sin Chung-kai, a
pro-democracy member of Hong Kong's legislature who led the debate on the issue.
"The crux of the controversy is how much other information about a person should
be stored on the card."

Hong Kong's current ID, a laminated card that looks like a driver's license, has
a photo, biographical data and the cardholder's residency status. But the chip
embedded in the new card has room for a wealth of other information, including
medical and financial data and driving records.

The government plans to award a contract within two weeks for the production of
these so-called smart identification cards, which it intends to issue to Hong
Kong's 6.8 million residents over four years.

The contract is worth $394 million, and major foreign and local technology and
telecommunications companies have submitted bids -- not only to supply cards but
also the optical readers and the computer database that will store information
on millions of thumbprints.

"It's a contract with a lot of possibilities," said Frederick Ma, the executive
director of Pacific Century CyberWorks, Hong Kong's flagship telephone company,
which is the heavy favorite to win the assignment.

Chief among them is the possibility of expanding onto the Chinese mainland.
China already requires its 1.3 billion people to carry laminated identification
cards. But the government is eager to issue smart identification cards with
multiple uses. The authorities in Beijing have asked immigration officials here
whether Hong Kong's card could serve as a model for the mainland's own.

Malaysia has introduced a national ID card, known as MyKad, that also serves as
a passport, electronic purse and driver's license. Brunei issues a smart card
with more limited uses.

In the United States, where compulsory ID cards have been anathema, the idea has
attracted some support. In the wake of September's attacks, some regard the
security advantages of a card as more important than the potential threat to
civil liberties.

As the trauma of Sept. 11 recedes a bit, though, advocates of identification
cards are focused on standardizing driver's licenses rather than issuing new
cards. More than 90 percent of American adults hold licenses, many of which have
bar codes or magnetic stripes. Congress is weighing legislation that would link
the state motor vehicle databases into a national database.

In Hong Kong, a former British colony, the basic debate was settled long ago. It
began requiring residents to carry identification cards in 1949, after it was
swamped by refugees fleeing the Communist revolution in China.

Hong Kong's separate status has made people here sensitive to any encroachment
of their civil liberties, particularly since the city returned to China's
control in 1997. The public debate here over the new ID card was long and
spirited. When pro-democracy lawmakers raised privacy concerns, officials
shelved their more ambitious proposals for the card.

"If I were a film star and I had some kind of disease, I wouldn't want it to be
on my ID card," Mr. Sin said. "I also wouldn't want the ID to be my cash card. I
don't want my spending traced."

After floating the idea of storing other data, like medical information or even
money, on the identification card, Hong Kong now plans to limit it to basic
uses. In addition to immigration data, the chip will have space for a digital
certificate: an electronic signature that has legal standing and can be
transmitted in coded form for use in electronic commerce.

Few people here now use these signatures, which are sold by the post office in
the form of encoded cards.

But with the Hong Kong Stock Exchange introducing online stock trading, and the
Hong Kong Jockey Club pushing online betting, officials predict that their use
will grow rapidly.

Hong Kong had initially hoped to imprint a driver's license on the ID card. But
that proposal foundered on concerns that the card would have to be traded in if
the person's license was suspended.

The authorities still plan to phase out the separate driver's license, storing
all the information on a database in the Transport Department. Police officers
with wireless hand-held terminals will be able to gain access to this data using
the ID card, which people must carry at all times anyway.

Some officials remain enthusiastic about the identification card's potential as
a sort of central repository in the future. They note that it could store money,
making it what they call an e-purse. It could serve as a digital version of a
medical bracelet, with information on allergies or chronic illnesses, and
contain details on the cardholder's welfare benefits.

"I think it could be extraordinarily convenient," said Michael V. Stone, an
official in Hong Kong's information technology and broadcasting bureau who is
dreaming up new uses for the card.

In case public attitudes change, Hong Kong plans to leave 20 percent of the
chip's memory unused for future applications.

Hong Kong has walked a similarly fine line in its use of biometrics, the
technique of identifying people through unique physical characteristics like
fingerprints. The government originally considered iris scans as a way of
verifying a person's identity. That was rejected out of concern that people
might object to exposing their eyes to light beams.

Fingerprints presented another problem. "We had to think very carefully about
the use of thumbprints because people worry that they could be stolen," Mr.
Stone said.

Rather than use a digital image of a thumbprint, which could be copied, Hong
Kong plans to create an algorithm of the print. That mathematical information
will allow an optical reader to determine whether a set of prints match, but it
will not provide enough information to re-create the print.

Digital thumbprints are used in cards issued by Singapore to Malaysian workers
who work in Singapore. Since the system was put into effect, the Singapore
government has not recorded a case of a person successfully crossing the border
on someone else's card.

Such security would be of great value in Hong Kong, which faces a perennial
problem of mainland Chinese migrants crossing illegally into the territory. A
common ploy is to travel on another person's ID card by tampering with the photo
and the biographical data.

Mr. Wong is excited by the prospect of cracking down on illegal immigrants. But
he notes that the card will not be used more broadly to fight crime. For
example, the authorities have pledged not to compare individual thumbprints
against a database of prints.

"People are worried that it could become a very powerful weapon," Mr. Wong said.
"We had to give up some things to reassure the public."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric T. P. Wong, deputy director of Hong Kong's immigration
department, with smart ID prototypes. The card's use is about a year away.
(Daniel J. Groshong/Tayo Photo Group, for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Non-Orthodox Gain Support From Ruling In Israeli Court

BYLINE:  By JOEL GREENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 709 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 20


The Israeli Supreme Court took an important step today toward deciding the
question of "who is a Jew" by ruling that Israelis converted by the Conservative
or Reform movements should be listed as Jews in the official population
registry.

The decision added new support for official recognition of the relatively small
Conservative and Reform movements in Israel, and it further chipped away at the
control of the Orthodox chief rabbinate here.

Until now only Orthodox conversions were recognized for purposes of official
registration, and the non-Orthodox movements have been fighting court battles
for years to gain official recognition and state financing for their programs.

The Conservative and Reform movements have a limited following in Israel,
claiming 40,000 synagogue members, but their members form a large majority in
organized Jewish communities in the United States and in other countries.

Strictly Orthodox Jews in Israel assert that the movements, with their more
liberal interpretations of Jewish law and practice, are promoting heretical
deviations from hallowed Jewish tradition.

The non-Orthodox groups reply that rigid Orthodox practice has alienated many
Israelis and put unnecessary obstacles before the conversion of immigrants who
have obtained citizenship by proving a close Jewish relation but are not
themselves officially considered Jews.

Though the practical effect of today's decision remains unclear, it has
potential implications for as many as 300,000 non-Jewish immigrants from the
former Soviet Union who have received Israeli citizenship and who can now obtain
recognized non-Orthodox conversions if they choose.

The ruling, written by the chief justice, Aharon Barak, was endorsed by nine
other members of the panel with one judge dissenting. It was given in response
to petitions submitted by the Conservative and Reform movements in Israel and by
people whom the Interior Ministry had refused to register as Jews after they
underwent non-Orthodox conversions.

"Israel is the state of the Jewish people," Judge Barak wrote. "There are
different streams in Judaism active in Israel and abroad.

"Every stream acts according to its own views. Every Jew in Israel -- like every
person who is not Jewish -- is entitled to freedom of religion, conscience and
organization. Our basic concepts grant every individual the freedom to decide
whether he will belong to one stream or another."

Interior Minister Eli Yishai, a member of the strictly Orthodox Shas Party,
balked at the court's decision, saying that he would consult the chief rabbis
and his own party's rabbinical council before deciding how to respond.

A statement from Mr. Yishai's office said he had instructed his staff to draft a
parliamentary bill stating that only Orthodox conversions would be officially
recognized. However, it appeared doubtful whether such a bill would gain
sufficient support to pass.

"This is a scandalous, difficult and disastrous decision for the Jewish people,"
Mr. Yishai said of the court's ruling. He accused the judges of "strengthening a
marginal stream that encourages assimilation and helps to diminish the Jewish
people."

The Ashkenazic chief rabbi, Yisrael Meir Lau, said the court had no authority to
rule on membership in the Jewish people, which he said must be determined by
Jewish law. "People who are not authorized by the proper authorities cannot
determine who is a Jew," he said.

The Conservative movement said it had converted 200 people in Israel last year,
and the Reform movement said it converted about 150 people here annually. Rabbis
in both movements said they now expected a flood of inquiries by prospective
converts in the wake of the court decision.

Rabbi Ehud Bandel, president of the Conservative movement in Israel, called the
ruling "an historic step in the struggle for freedom of religion and religious
pluralism in Israel."

"We have made a very serious crack in the wall of the Orthodox monopoly on
personal status issues in Israel," he said.

Rabbi David Ariel-Joel, executive director of the Reform movement in Israel,
said the decision signaled "a change in Israel's attitude toward the majority of
the Jewish people" and removed "a ringing slap in the face of the Jews of the
diaspora."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 28, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BOSTON AIRPORT;
Logan Workers Accused of Lying on Applications

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 27


Federal officials charged 20 people at Logan International Airport here today
with giving false information to get jobs or security badges.

Those arrested were all immigrants, from Latin America, Haiti, Morocco or
Tanzania and were accused of lying on their applications or presenting fake
Social Security numbers or immigration documents, Michael J. Sullivan, the
United States attorney here, said. All were current or former employees of
private contractors that provided services like security screening, cleaning or
fueling airplanes. Fifteen were in the country illegally.

Mr. Sullivan said none of those arrested were "suspected or charged with having
any terrorist connections."

"There is no evidence to indicate that any of the charged individuals sought to
do anything other than obtain gainful employment," he said.

The charges were the latest in a post-Sept. 11 crackdown on airport employees by
the United States Department of Transportation, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the Social Security Administration.

In recent months, arrests have been made at airports in seven other cities:
Atlanta; Las Vegas; Miami; Portland, Ore.; Seattle; Washington; and Salt Lake
City.

"We need to know who is working in the secured areas of the airport and that all
who are there are lawfully present," said Ned E. Schwartz, special agent in
charge of the Department of Transportation's office of investigation.

Security at Logan airport has received great scrutiny because the two planes
that crashed into the World Trade Center left from there.

Mr. Sullivan said the investigation began nine days after the terrorist attacks
and involved the review of applications of 3,500 of the 10,000 employees at the
airport. The 3,500 were chosen because they had been "given access badges to
secure areas of Logan," he said, adding that others might be screened later.

Mr. Sullivan said federal officials were not holding the companies that hired
the employees responsible because, at the time, they did not have the ability to
verify Social Security numbers. Since Sept. 11, the immigration service has
become involved in the screening of airport employees, making it possible to
verify the information an applicant presents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 1, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrants From Afar See Mexico as Steppingstone to U.S.

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words

DATELINE: PUERTO MADERO, Mexico


For the price of a first-class plane ticket, 31-year-old Pablo Juela got a bum
ride.

With his country, Ecuador, racked by double-digit unemployment and inflation,
Mr. Juela said that with a fifth-grade education he was unable to find a good
job and could not make a decent life for his five children on his earnings as a
street vendor of less than $50 a week.

He hired a smuggler for what he believed would be a safe, although illegal,
journey to the United States. He said he borrowed $1,000 from relatives and a
former employer to make a down payment to a man who never identified himself. He
promised to pay the remainder -- $5,000 -- once he got to his brother's house in
the Bronx.

Mr. Juela hardly got what he paid for. This month, United States Coast Guard and
Mexican Navy boats seized two rickety fishing vessels overloaded with hundreds
of Ecuadorean men and women off the southern tip of Mexico. Mr. Juela was the
among the desperate passengers, many of them suffering dehydration and gangrene.

A third boat, loaded with 151 people, including immigrants from the Middle East,
was intercepted by United States Coast Guard officials some 200 miles away from
Ecuador and forced to return to port.

Mexico has long been a major source of illegal immigrants to the United States.
But geography has also made this country an important international hub for
criminal networks that smuggle immigrants from around the world, an industry
that rivals the drug trade in profits and ruthlessness. Many of their
multilayered operations in this country begin here at Mexico's southern border
with Guatemala.

In the southern state of Chiapas alone, some 80,000 undocumented immigrants were
detained by Mexican officials last year. The overwhelming majority came from
Central America. But those detained included dozens of people from India,
Lebanon, Iraq, and Sierra Leone and some 992 Ecuadoreans.

The illegal flow of immigrants to the United States dropped by half after the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. In his first 18 months in office, Mexican's
president, Vicente Fox, tried to improve security along Mexico's southern border
with Guatemala by increasing the number of migration agents posted at border
checkpoints, and by cracking down on corrupt immigration officials and immigrant
smugglers.

United States Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said that many
governments in Central America, another important way station in the
international smuggling routes, had also increased law enforcement operations
along land borders.

The human cargo recently seized at sea indicates to some American and Mexican
officials that the flow of illegal immigrants may be beginning a new surge and
that the heightened land security may be no more effective as hazard cones on a
highway. Rather than stopping the flow of immigrants, the measures may be
forcing smugglers onto uncharted, unmarked routes.

Mexican officials said that the vessels docked at this port of seamen and shark
fishermen carried the largest loads of illegal immigrants captured here since
the early 1990's when leaking trawlers loaded with hundreds of Chinese
immigrants were intercepted along the coast of Baja California. Last year, the
Mexican Navy captured nine immigrant vessels, most of them small motorboats or
rafts with only one or two immigrants aboard.

"The numbers of people on these recent boats indicates a change," said Rear Adm.
Carlos Martinez de Anda. "It looks like the smugglers are moving out to sea."

The activity is mirrored at the United States-Mexico border, where operations by
the United States Border Patrol at major crossing areas have forced immigrants
to attempt their illegal journeys across isolated deserts. More than 100 of them
died last year from exposure.

"It may be too early to call this a trend, but the signs are troubling," said
Deputy Interior Minister Javier Moctezuma. "It is something that concerns us."

The trip at sea terrified the hundreds of immigrants captured separately aboard
two Ecuadorean fishing vessels this month.

"Shrimp is a major product of my country and I never get to eat it," said Wilson
Montenegro, 21, explaining why he embarked on the perilous journey. "I want a
job that pays me a man's salary. I want my sons to have pencils and notebooks
for school. I want them to eat shrimp."

One vessel carried 211 immigrants and crew members. The other carried 167.
Officials estimated that the vessels -- both named for sailing's comic hero,
Popeye -- were more than 30 years old with maximum capacities of 12 to 20
people. The engines were held together with hanger wire and tin. They were
discovered in rough seas more than 200 miles off the coast.

The immigrants, interviewed in an old basketball gymnasium that had been
converted into a mass shelter, said they had been lost at sea for 10 days. Their
food lasted for seven.

"The women were crying and fainting," said Segundo Pucuna Yerrobi, 36, a
construction worker and father of five. "We were all scared, really scared. But
the men tried to stay strong so that the women would not lose hope."

"As for me," he added. "I was losing hope."

Mexican investigators said the crews of the two boats had been detained and
charged with immigrant smuggling. Initial interrogations indicate that the 12
suspects are fishermen, just about as down on their luck as the immigrants they
ferried north, with only tenuous connections to the main smuggling operation.

With little more than a handshake and a few sketchy details, the crew members
were hired because of their navigating experience and for the use of their
vessels. Each was offered $800 to $1,000 for the round-trip journey, which
should have lasted 10 to 12 days. The fee is more than most of the crew earn in
a month, they told Mexican officials.

Many of the immigrants, meanwhile, had paid fees that were higher than what they
would earn in a year. In interviews, immigrants said they had agreed to pay
smugglers $4,000 to $8,000 for "safe and comfortable" passage into the United
States. Some had already paid at least half the fee. Most were going to live
with family and friends in New York, which has a growing Ecuadorean community of
an estimated 600,000 people.

Photos taken at the time the vessels were intercepted show men and women
shoulder to shoulder with their knees bent. Empty cracker wrappers and tuna cans
litter the decks.

Mr. Juela said he was torn by relief and remorse when rescued by Mexican
officials. "I wanted them to help us," he said. "But I also wanted them to let
us go on our way."

He was deported home on Valentine's Day. Again, his feelings seemed mixed.

"I am happy to be alive," he said before he departed. "I am happy that I have a
family waiting for me.

"But what do I have to offer them?" he added. "All I had was this dream."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ecuadoreans caught off Chiapas, Mexico, en route to the United
States wait in a holding center in Tapachula before being sent home by plane.
(Lynsey Addario for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Puerto
Madero: Mexican towns like Puerto Madero attract immigrant smugglers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Travel Advisory;
Bypassing the Line At Heathrow Airport

BYLINE:  By David Cay Johnston

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 223 words


Some passengers are passing through immigration at Heathrow Airport in London in
the blink of an eye.

Using technology that captures an image of an iris and stores it in a database,
Virgin Atlantic and British Airways are testing the system with about 2,000 of
their most frequent fliers.

The system will be tested in Terminals 3 and 4 at Heathrow for about five
months. Passengers entering Britain must still carry their passports and are
still subject to questioning by immigration officers.

The system is made by Eyeticket Corporation, a company in McLean, Va. Iris
recognition is one of several competing technologies that store and compare
images of faces, hands and other body parts to identify people.

From May 2000 until shortly after Sept. 11 US Airways was using the Eyeticket
system in Charlotte to identify pilots, flight attendants and other personnel,
but stopped after new Federal Aviation Administration rules required airline
personnel to show identification cards and pass through metal detectors.

It takes no more than three seconds for a video camera, 10 inches from the eye,
to identify a passenger, said John Riordan, a Virgin Atlantic marketing
executive. Once the computer matches an iris with data in its memory, an entry
ticket is issued, a door opens and the passenger formally enters Britain.
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              403 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 8, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Final Rules for Federal Victims' Fund Increase Aid to Families of Sept. 11 Dead

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARSTOW

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1006 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7


Saying that the complaints from families of those killed or injured on Sept. 11
had not fallen on deaf ears, the official overseeing the federal Victims
Compensation Fund announced final regulations today that he said would produce
substantially larger awards than his initial rules would have allowed.

Under the new rules, average awards -- before any mandated deductions for life
insurance, pensions and assorted government benefits -- would increase to $1.85
million from $1.65 million, Kenneth R. Feinberg, special master of the Victims
Compensation Fund, said at a news conference here today.

The new rules will temper the perceived harshness of the mandated deductions, he
said, and they will also make it far easier for the injured to win awards,
particularly the hundreds of rescue workers and firefighters now complaining of
disabling lung ailments from working in the dust at ground zero.

"I've listened to the families and learned a great deal," said Mr. Feinberg, who
said he had met with more than 1,000 families since he issued draft regulations
in December. Mr. Feinberg strongly urged families today to sign up for the fund
without further delay, and he specifically pledged that illegal immigrants would
face no sanctions if they came forward.

"They need not fear any type of prosecution," he said.

To date, only 366 claims have been filed with the fund. To enter the fund, one
must agree not to sue elsewhere. Mr. Feinberg, though, warned that Congress had
left families with little alternative when it passed special legislation to
protect airlines and others from lawsuits.

"The litigation option isn't real," he said with characteristic bluntness.

Today, most victims' groups, political leaders and lawyers reluctantly agreed
with that assessment. But while lauding Mr. Feinberg for making significant
improvements -- establishing a $250,000 minimum award, doubling noneconomic
awards to dependents to $100,000 from $50,000, offering ballpark award estimates
to families before they commit to the fund -- several continued to voice angry
complaints about various provisions. And some were already exploring the
possibility of challenging the fund's final regulations in federal court.

Carie Lemack, president of Families of Sept. 11, said that the fund was barely
improved, especially for spouses with young children, whose substantial Social
Security death benefits would still be deducted from awards.

Lee S. Kreindler, senior partner at Kreindler & Kreindler, a law firm that
represents the families of more than 150 men and women who died in the attacks,
said that the final rules penalize high-income families by disregarding any
income over $225,000 from calculations of economic losses.

"They've made some improvements," he said. "But for the large cases, mostly in
the financial industry, the young people who were earning a lot of money and
leave behind families, it is a rather dismal prospect. Those cases are
dreadfully undervalued."

Yet, he added, challenging the final regulations in court poses risks, too.
"What if that prompted Congress to revisit the entire statute?" he asked,
mindful of the public reaction in some quarters against the fund. "You wonder
what you're going to end up with when it's all over."

Eliot L. Spitzer, the attorney general of New York, had found the draft
regulations so offensive that he had threatened to sue Mr. Feinberg, arguing
that the regulations as first envisioned failed to follow the intent of
Congress. But today, Mr. Spitzer said that Mr. Feinberg's revisions and
clarifications had persuaded him that he no longer had any solid basis for a
court challenge. He, too, urged families to file claims.

"He has said repeatedly that the proof will be in the magnitude of awards," Mr.
Spitzer said. "We have to put him to the test."

Mr. Feinberg, who was appointed special master of the fund by Attorney General
John Ashcroft, refused to budge on perhaps the most controversial element of his
draft rules -- his decision to pay all families a flat rate of $250,000 for the
pain and suffering of relatives killed in the attacks.

Hundreds of victims, all the major victim groups and virtually every major
political leader in the Northeast had urged Mr. Feinberg and the Bush
administration to increase that $250,000 payment. They cited scores of jury
awards in other airline crash cases in which such payments were in the millions.
But Mr. Feinberg today continued to insist that the $250,000 pain and suffering
payment was fair and appropriate.

"Reasonable people can differ," he said.

Seeking to allay the concerns of New York City leaders, Mr. Feinberg was far
more flexible in modifying the final regulations for claims by the injured.

The draft regulations said that rescue workers were eligible for awards only if
they suffered a disabling injury in the first 12 hours after the attacks, sought
treatment within 96 hours and had contemporaneous medical records to document
the injury. In the final regulations, those deadlines are eliminated, as is the
requirement for contemporaneous medical records.

"It is a favorable change in the winds," said James P. McGarry, a lawyer in New
York whose firm represents more than 1,000 firefighters who have complained of
respiratory problems. Roughly half of them are temporarily or permanently
disabled, he said, and "the statistics are getting grimmer and grimmer."

The final regulations open the door to potentially hundreds of millions of
dollars in fund awards to these men, he said.

Mr. Feinberg said such an assumption was premature at best. Each case must be
scrutinized, he said. At the same time, however, Mr. Feinberg strongly rebutted
assertions from some quarters that the families' complaints about the fund were
driven by rank greed.

"That criticism is definitely unwarranted," Mr. Feinberg said. "It's unfair." In
his experience, he said, these are grief-stricken families -- many of them
deeply afraid for their financial futures -- who are trying to put their lives
back together.

"It has nothing to do with greed."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              404 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 9, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Jersey Family in Cuba Is Allowed to Return Home

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: CLIFFSIDE PARK, N.J., March 8


A New Jersey family who had been prevented from leaving Cuba for a week after
officials there accused them of helping relatives flee to the United States are
finally being allowed to leave, officials here said today.

They said Luis Lopez, 47, and his family had traveled to Cuba on Feb. 23, but
their traveling documents were seized by Cuban immigration officials on March 1,
after it was discovered that some of their relatives had recently fled Cuba for
the United States. This afternoon, after lobbying by American officials in Cuba,
the family was given back their documents. They plan to leave Cuba on Saturday,
according to Debra DeShong, a spokeswoman for Senator Robert G. Torricelli of
New Jersey, who intervened on behalf of Mr. Lopez; his mother, Aida, 69; his
wife, Mireya, 43; and their daughter, Vanessa, 6.

Most of the official lobbying, by the United States Interests Section, the State
Department's official presence in Havana, was done on behalf of Vanessa Lopez,
who is a United States citizen. The other members of the Lopez family, who live
in Cliffside Park, legally immigrated to the United States 14 years ago, but are
still Cuban citizens.

Some officials and family members characterized the little girl as a kind of
reverse Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban boy who survived a treacherous ocean crossing
to Florida two years ago, before being returned to Cuba in the wake of demands
by his father and officials there.

"Inevitably, the Vanessa Lopez case is going to be seen in the same light as
Elian Gonzalez," Mr. Torricelli said.

It was Vanessa's brother, Michel Lopez, 21, who did not make the trip to Cuba,
who brought the case to Mr. Torricelli's attention.

"Everybody's really happy," he said tonight, adding that his family would be
flying to Miami from Havana at 10:30 a.m. on Saturday. "I was afraid they
wouldn't give my family back to me."

The Lopez family was never jailed in Cuba. They stayed with relatives the entire
time, though they were unable to leave without the documents that had been
seized, including Vanessa's passport.

"We're sorry that they were detained, and we're glad they're coming home," said
Ms. DeShong, the senator's spokeswoman, just after being contacted this evening
by the interests section in Havana.

No one answered repeated phone calls or responded to a fax today at the Cuban
Interests Section, which is in the Swiss Embassy in Washington.

Luis Lopez's brother Rolando, 33, who fled Cuba with his own immediate family
last month, is now living with relatives in Cliffside Park, a Bergen County
suburb near one of America's largest concentrations of Cuban Americans, in
northern Hudson County. He, his wife, Zady, and their 3-year-old daughter,
Beatriz -- are awaiting a response from federal officials to a request for
residency.

Rolando Lopez denied that Luis played any role in his family's escape, and said
that he had deliberately avoided informing Luis or anyone else in the family of
his plans to flee, lest they be overheard by government informers in Cuba. He
said he and his brother were not even in Cuba at the same time.

He said he arrived with his family in Miami on Feb. 21, before his brother took
his own family from New Jersey to Cuba on the afternoon of Feb. 23. But, Mr.
Lopez said, because he was detained in a hotel by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Miami until 2 a.m. on Feb. 24, he was not able to tell
his brother Luis that he and his family were already in the United States, and
that being in Cuba could cause trouble for Luis's family.

Luis Lopez had been staying with another brother, Orlando, in Cuba.

Rolando Lopez, speaking in Spanish in an interview today, said that besides
Luis's family, their parents and a fourth brother, Roberto, lived in Cliffside
Park. That is why he fled Cuba -- and unwittingly caused his brother's family to
be marooned there. "I wanted to be reunited with my family," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michel Lopez with a photo of his parents, Luis and Mireya, who
were delayed in Cuba with their daughter, Vanessa, left, and Luis's mother,
Aida. (Photographs by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              405 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business;
On Alert, Northand South

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 148 words


The antiterrorist bunker mentality that transfixed the country was felt acutely
along the United States borders with Canada and Mexico, where police constricted
the multibillion-dollar flow of goods, disrupting trade, causing parts shortages
and adding to costs. While backups are now largely gone, not everything is the
same.

At the Ambassador Bridge and the tunnel linking Detroit and Windsor, Ontario,
two busy crossings, American customs and immigration workers have been augmented
by the National Guard and local police officers from southern Michigan,
increasing the rate of inspections and spot checks.

At the four bridges from Mexico to Laredo, Tex., where more than 4,500 trucks
enter daily, "we're still conducting increased examinations, and officers are
working longer hours," said Rick Pauza, a Customs Office spokesman, "but the
public understands why."   BERNARD SIMON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The economy is on the mend six months after Sept. 11. A Century
21 department store reopened late last month near ground zero. (Librado
Romero/The New York Times) Chart: "Economic Aftershocks of Sept. 11: Subsiding
or Gone, but Not Forgotten" UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE RECIPIENTSChange since Sept.
1 EMPLOYMENT IN SECURITY JOBSIn thousands (since January 2001) CONSUMER
SENTIMENT INDEXUniversity of Michigan survey since 2000 SALES OF ANTIDEPRESSANTS
AND SEDATIVESYear-over-year change (from October 2000-January 2002) RETAIL
SALESYear-over-year change for Dept. stores and Discount stores (since Sept.
2001) NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change since Sept. 2001. STOCK
MARKETChange since Aug. 31, 2001 for S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq NONRESIDENTIAL
CAPITAL SPENDINGChange from preceding quarter since 1998. NUMBER OF SCHEDULED
FLIGHTSIn thousands of flights a month since Jan. 2001. HOTEL OCCUPANCY
RATESFour-week moving average, daily since Sept. 2001 BORDER CROSSINGAverage per
stop, in minutes since Sept. 12-18 (2001) and Feb. 11-17 (2002) MILITARY
SPENDINGDefense Department outlays since 1996. (Sources: Economy.com
unemployment insurance recipients and mortgage applications ; University of
Michigan via Haver Analytics Consumer Sentiment Index ; Instinet Research's
Redbook Average retail store sales ; Bloomberg Financial Markets stock prices ;
Bureau of Transportation Statistics flight data ; U.S. Customs Service border
crossings ; Bureau of Labor Statistics security employment ; IMS Health drug
sales ; Bureau of Economic Analysis capital spending ; HotelRevMAX hotel
occupancy ; Defense Department military spending )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              406 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 11, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRANTS;
More Insulted And Attacked After Sept. 11

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10


Attacks on Asian-Americans, particularly Pakistani and Indian immigrants,
increased greatly in the United States in the weeks after Sept. 11, a report by
an advocacy group says.

The report, to be released on Monday by the National Asian Pacific American
Legal Consortium, made up of legal groups in Los Angeles, San Francisco and New
York, showed about 250 incidents against South Asian immigrants in the last
three months of 2001, including racial slurs, threatening phone calls and
homicides.

Nearly 80 percent occurred in September, the group said.

The number compares with the 400 to 500 incidents a year reported in the past.
The group said it collected information about 392 incidents in 2000 and 486
incidents in 1999.

Karen K. Narasaki, executive director of the consortium, said immigrant
communities in general bore a double burden of domestic reaction to Sept. 11,
because of the terrorist attacks and because of government efforts to tighten
enforcement of immigration laws.

Immigrants from South Asia appear to have been the subjects of attacks and other
racially motivated incidents because they were perceived, often incorrectly, to
be Arab or Muslim, the report said.

Sikhs, for example, a religious group with many members of South Asian descent,
were victimized because the men wear turbans and long beards, the report said.

About one out of five attacks was violent, mainly aggravated assault, the report
said. But two people were killed.

On Sept. 15, Balbir Singh Sodhi, 49, a Sikh from Mesa, Ariz., was fatally shot
while working at a gasoline station. When the police arrested a man in the
killing, the report said, he screamed, "I am a patriot."

Waqar Hasan, 46, a Pakistani, was killed in September while working at a grocery
store in Pleasant Grove, Tex. There was no indication of a robbery, the report
said, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating the incident as a
hate crime.

About half of the incidents involved threats and intimidation. Students said
racial slurs and physical attacks by classmates increased.  Workplace incidents
also rose, including threatening phone calls and racial epithets from
co-workers.  Some business owners reported arson and vandalism.

About 27 percent of the confrontations occurred in schools, the report said,
while 29 percent happened at work.

"The challenge for Americans is determining who is an American," Ms. Narasaki
said. "It is vital that we view immigrants to be as deserving of civil rights
and constitutional protections as any other American."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              407 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE HIJACKERS;
6 Months Late, I.N.S. Notifies Flight School of Hijackers' Visas

BYLINE:  By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12


Six months after Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi crashed hijacked airliners
into the World Trade Center, the Immigration and Naturalization Service sent out
a routine notice this week telling a flight school that the two men had been
approved for student visas to study there.

Embarrassed by the disclosure that the school had received the notifications on
Monday, six months to the day after the attacks, the agency said it approved
student visas for the two men last summer, before either had been identified as
suspected terrorists.

After Sept. 11, the agency said, it failed to halt the normal process of having
a subcontractor notify the school, Huffman Aviation in Venice, Fla., that it had
authorized the student visas for the two, who are now among the world's most
infamous terrorists.

The mistake was another embarrassing gaffe for an agency that has long been
criticized in Congress for sloppy management and inept record keeping and for
being unable to control the borders or keep track of foreigners in the United
States legally or illegally.

A spokesman for the immigration agency, Russ Bergeron, said it regretted that it
had not notified the subcontractor before it sent the letters last week. Mr.
Bergeron said he knew of no other letters related to any other hijackers.

"We certainly regret that our contractor was not notified after Sept. 11," he
said. "It was our responsibility to notify the contractor that the notifications
were not needed in this case."

In a draft statement, the agency acknowledged that its system was flawed. But
those admissions were deleted from the final statement issued this evening. The
draft statement said, "This incident also highlights the need to replace a
student information collections systems that I.N.S. has long stated was
antiquated, inaccurate, untimely and of little utility to I.N.S., school or
students."

The error seemed particularly difficult to explain, because Mr. Atta and Mr.
Shehhi were among the most infamous of the 19 hijackers. The authorities say
they believe that Mr. Atta, the suspected ringleader of the operation, was at
the controls of American Airlines Flight 11, which struck the north tower of the
trade center to begin the attacks. Mr. Shehhi was the suspected pilot on United
Airlines Flight 175, which slammed into the south tower.

Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the House
Judiciary Committee, said he was astonished at the slipshod handling of the
visas.

"I have been wondering for some time whether this administration suffers from
myopia as it continues with a misguided focus in pursuit of homeland security,"
Mr. Conyers said. "I am astonished that while the I.N.S. is fixated on detaining
and rounding up countless Arab-Americans without any justification, it has
failed to take basic steps to ensure that visas are not issued to known
terrorists."

The flight school filed the requests for M-1 student visas for the two men in
August 2000. The requests sought to change the men's visas from nonimmigrant
visitor to student to let them take a $27,000 yearlong professional course.

The agency approved the requests on July 17, 2001, in Mr. Atta's case, and on
Aug. 9 in Mr. Shehhi's. But CNN, which first reported the agency's action today,
said the letters were postmarked last week.

In its statement, the agency said: "It is important to emphasize that the
decisions regarding the request to change status were made in the summer of
2001, prior to the tragic events of Sept. 11. It is equally important to
recognize that when the applications were approved, the I.N.S. had no
information indicating that Atta or Shehhi had ties to terrorist organizations."

Letters to the two men would have been generated automatically and sent to them
shortly after the visas had been approved. The flight school would have been
notified as a follow-up.

The letters to Huffman Aviation were sent from the I.N.S. Student Processing
Center, operated by ACS Inc., a contractor in London, Ky. The company has
processed arrival and departure forms for foreign students, business visitors
and travelers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rudi Dekkers, owner of Huffman Aviation, holding the eligibility
certificates for nonimmigrant student status yesterday in Venice, Fla.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              408 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2002 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

John Ashcroft's Palmer Raids

BYLINE:   By Clancy Sigal;   Clancy Sigal is a screenwriter and novelist.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The federal government is still holding hundreds of Middle Eastern and Asian men
rounded up after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. Most are jailed on minor
immigration violations, but they are being held indefinitely, presumably as the
government looks for some connection to terrorists. Americans who object to this
tactic of indiscriminate roundups, Attorney General John Ashcroft told a Senate
committee in December, "only aid terrorists."

No one wants terrorists to operate in our country, but the consequences of this
kind of government action can be long-lasting. On this, I have family history to
look to.

In the summer of 1919 a series of dynamite bombings, carried out by anarchists,
swept over several American cities. A suicide bomber blew himself up outside the
Washington home of Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer. Then, on Sept. 16, 1920,
the House of Morgan in lower Manhattan was blown up, killing 33 people and
injuring 400.

The anarchist threat was terrifying, just as the terrorist threat is now. Most
Americans supported Attorney General Palmer's campaign against the "Reds" -- an
ill-defined menace that went far beyond the small group of actual anarchists and
was blamed for pretty much anything that smacked of social conflict --
including, at various times, the woman's suffrage movement, a Chicago race riot
and a wave of paralyzing industrial strikes.

My Russian-immigrant parents fit the profile. They were foreign-born, Jewish,
radical labor organizers who had actively participated in several turbulent
strikes. They had no fixed address and were living in sin. They were arrested,
jailed and almost deported during the infamous Palmer raids of 1920 and 1921.

Attorney General Palmer was an angry man on a mission of vengeance. Using
existing sedition laws, he and his chief investigating officer, a ravenously
ambitious 24-year-old named J. Edgar Hoover, ordered 500 agents of the newly
created Federal Bureau of Investigation to go after Communists, socialists,
union activists, and pacifists and arrest them without warrants or judicial
hearings. Homes were ransacked, political literature burned. Estimates vary, but
between 4,000 and l0,000 people were secretly, efficiently rounded up. Like
today's detainees, they were often held without bail, habeas corpus rights or
access to lawyers.

When I was growing up my father kept silent about the raids, but my mother told
me federal agents had beaten him on the way to jail. Both of my parents were
released to go back to their lives -- my mother after a few days and my father
after a few weeks. They had feared being deported, as some of their friends
were.

The raids were a living presence in our house. At a later time, when J. Edgar
Hoover's F.B.I. came around to question me during the cold war, my mother
politely met them at the door, invited them in for coffee and charmed them out
of their intended purpose. But she was pale and terrified when I got home. In an
understandable slip of the tongue she said: "The Palmers have been here. What
have you done?"

I wonder how many immigrant homes were like ours. The Palmer raids, though long
ago, cut deep and left scars on individuals caught up in them and on America's
views of how government could be permitted to deal with anyone dissident and
different. What scars is our government inflicting today?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2002



CORRECTION: An Op-Ed article on Wednesday inaccurately described a Sept. 16,
1920, bombing in New York's financial district. The bomb damaged, but did not
blow up, the House of Morgan, which is still standing.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              409 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 14, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
Bush Orders Inquiry Into Visas Issued to Terrorists After Attack

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13


President Bush ordered an investigation today into the student visas that were
recently granted to two Sept. 11 hijackers while Senator Tom Daschle used the
issue to demand that Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, testify
before Congress, branding his refusal to appear "untenable and inexcusable."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's notice approving the visas for
Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, received this week by a Florida flight school
six months after the attacks, set off a furor from the White House to the
Capitol, with Mr. Bush proclaiming at a White House news conference that he was
"stunned" and "plenty hot."

The incident also fed an escalating conflict about Mr. Ridge's accountability to
Congress. The comments by Mr. Daschle, the Senate majority leader, demonstrated
that Democrats were ready to raise sharper questions and confront the White
House on domestic security efforts.

Mr. Bush, in turn, was unequivocal in saying he would draw a line against any
Congressional "encroachment" on the executive branch.

Mr. Bush instructed Mr. Ridge and Attorney General John Ashcroft to investigate
why the student visas were routinely processed by the immigration service even
though the two men were widely known as two of the Sept. 11 hijackers. At his
news conference, he described the incident as a "wake-up call for those who run
the I.N.S."

Mr. Bush said he was "stunned and not happy" about what had occurred. He added
that he could "barely get my coffee down" when he read of the belated visa
notices.

But he also said the immigration commissioner, James Ziglar, should be given a
chance to grapple with the agency's antiquated information system. "They got the
message and hopefully they'll reform as quickly as possible," he said.

The immigration service, seeking to clarify today why the school had received
the visa approvals this week, said that the hijackers had filed requests to
change their visa status to student from visitor last summer and that the
requests were approved before the attacks.

The agency said in a statement that it had no information at the time that
either man was tied to terrorist groups. Notification to schools of student visa
status comes late, it said, because data is entered manually into a computer
system. It said it was moving toward a system that would eliminate such delays.

On Capitol Hill, the criticisms of the immigration agency were strikingly
bipartisan. Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, called the agency's notice a
"mind-boggling example of bungling and inefficiency."

Senator Bob Graham, the Florida Democrat who is the chairman of the Senate
Intelligence Committee, called the visa notices "bizarre" and "unacceptable" and
said he would seek an overhaul of the issuance and monitoring of student visas.

Mr. Ashcroft, after directing the Justice Department inspector general to
investigate, said, "Individuals will be held responsible for any professional
incompetence that led to this failure." He called it "inexcusable when document
mismanagement leads to a breakdown of this magnitude."

Mr. Daschle went further and used the incident to raise new questions about Mr.
Ridge's accountability to Congress and the effectiveness of the domestic
security effort. He said he wanted Mr. Ridge to tell Congress "why these things
are going on" and why the administration had rebuffed Democrats' efforts last
year to put more money into homeland security, including the creation of a
computerized student visa tracking system.

"We can't feel secure as long as mistakes of this magnitude are going on," Mr.
Daschle, of South Dakota, said this morning.

He declined to assess the effectiveness of the new security office run by Mr.
Ridge but raised the possibility that Congress could subpoena him.

"I don't know that anybody can say with any real confidence how good a job he's
doing or the office is doing because we have such little information," Mr.
Daschle said.

Late this afternoon, an aide to Mr. Daschle clarified that the White House had
agreed to finance the computerized student visa tracking system last year but
not all of the other Democratic security requests.

Mr. Daschle and Mr. Bush appeared bound for a collision course. Mr. Bush
insisted that Mr. Ridge did not have to testify.

"He's a part of my staff," the president said. "And that's part of the
prerogative of the executive branch of government and we hold that very dear."

He also defended his administration's refusal to give Congress records of Vice
President Dick Cheney's consultations with energy company executives, saying,
"I'm not going to let Congress erode the power of the executive branch."

Of the lawsuit by the General Accounting Office seeking those documents, Mr.
Bush said, "We're not going to give them to them."

"These were privileged conversations," he added.

Mr. Bush dismissed the complaints from Congress, including some Republicans,
that there was a lack of consultation on the war effort.

"We consult with Congress all the time," he said, adding almost playfully, "I
break bread with both Republicans and Democrats right back here in the Oval
Office and have a good honest discussion about plans, objectives, what's taking
place, what's not taking place."

Mr. Daschle indicated he was consulting with Democratic committee chairmen about
what course to take with Mr. Ridge, who has had formal requests to testify from
at least two Senate committees. Mr. Daschle said possible actions included
subpoenaing Mr. Ridge, passing a Senate resolution calling on him to testify or
passing legislation to make him a full cabinet officer subject to Congressional
oversight.

"We aren't comfortable coercing somebody to speak," Mr. Daschle said, referring
to a subpoena. "But when you have somebody this important and when you have an
issue as critical as it is, there shouldn't be any question about his
willingness to come before the committees."

Several senators, including Mr. Graham and Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of
Connecticut, are planning to press ahead with legislation that has been opposed
by the White House to bolster Mr. Ridge's powers and make him subject to Senate
confirmation and oversight. A spokeswoman for Mr. Lieberman said that Mr.
Ridge's refusal to testify had only strengthened the senator's resolve to make
the position a cabinet post.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              410 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRATION SERVICE;
Agency Finds Itself Under Siege, With Many Responsibilities and Many Critics

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1169 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is one of the government's
fastest-growing agencies, and, perhaps, the most fouled up.

It has antiquated computers, staggering paperwork backlogs and sharply
conflicting mandates. It is responsible for policing thousands of miles of
border with Canada and Mexico, but it is also charged with providing benefits to
millions of the country's newest residents.

The letter that was received this week by a Florida flight school approving
student visas for Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, two dead Sept. 11
hijackers, is just an example of the kind of mishaps that have angered
politicians from both parties and sparked renewed demands that the agency be
overhauled, if not abolished.

"It's a given that the agency needs to be reformed, the question is how," said
Cecilia Munoz, vice president of National Council of La Raza, a Latino rights
organization.

The Bush administration and House Republicans believe that the agency's
functions must be separated to improve efficiency and accountability. But they
sharply disagree about the solution.

Mr. Bush said on Wednesday that the commissioner of immigration and
naturalization, James W. Ziglar, should be given a chance to fix his agency's
problems.

"He's held accountable," Mr. Bush said of Mr. Ziglar. "His responsibility is to
reform the I.N.S. Let's give him time to do so."

But Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the Wisconsin Republican who
heads the House Judiciary Committee, said the agency was broken beyond repair.

Mr. Sensenbrenner has proposed replacing the immigration service with two new
bureaus within the Justice Department, one to patrol the borders and another to
administer benefits to immigrants.

"Every immigration commissioner has tried restructuring the agency and things
have only gotten worse rather than better," Mr. Sensenbrenner said today.

Mr. Sensenbrenner has scheduled a committee hearing for April 9 on his
legislation to split up the agency, to be followed the next day by a committee
vote. He said he would send the bill to the House floor for a vote soon after.
The White House opposes the measure.

The House bill faces an uphill struggle in the Democratic-controlled Senate,
where Mr. Ziglar was the popular sergeant-at-arms before accepting the
immigration service job.

Even some of the agency's staunchest critics question whether breaking it up
would solve its problems.

"Dividing the I.N.S.'s responsibilities between two separate agencies would
result in smaller enforcement and service agencies, each with a clearer, more
focused mission," Glenn A. Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general said
in October. "However, separating the I.N.S. into two agencies might merely
compound the deficiencies in the agency's management controls, systems and
accountability."

Splitting the agency could also hamper coordination between its service and
enforcement sides, critics of the move argue.

"Sensenbrenner's bill creates problems of overlap and duplication," said Jeanne
Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
"In his bill, for instance, each branch would have its own legal counsel. It
doesn't make sense."

Since Sept. 11, immigration officials said, the agency had taken several steps
to increase the scrutiny of foreigners entering the United States.

The agency is working more closely with the Treasury Department and Federal
Bureau of Investigation to track possible terrorists. Inspectors at ports and
other border crossings now have access to the State Department's consular
database to prevent visa fraud.

To crack down on foreigners who remain in the country despite deportation
orders, Mr. Ziglar has ordered that the names 314,000 criminal aliens be entered
into the F.B.I.'s database so that local police can identify them. The effort
could take up to a year.

But the immigration service still has no idea how many foreign students have
overstayed or violated their visas -- despite a 1996 law requiring a tracking
system for the 547,000 people holding student visas.

A computer network to track foreign students in the country is still being
tested and is not expected to be fully operational until next year. Congress
also bears some responsibility for the delay. Education groups opposed to the
measure twice persuaded lawmakers to postpone the start of the system.

A 1996 law also required the immigration system to create a system that would
record every time a foreigner entered and exited the country. Lawmakers later
retreated from the demand after business leaders expressed concerns about long
traffic lines at major border crossings, like the one Detroit shares with
Windsor, Ontario.

The system is intended to help track down foreigners who overstay their legal
visas. About 40 percent of the estimated eight million illegal immigrants in the
country stayed on after their travel, student or business visas lapsed.

But the immigration service has only about 1,700 agents to enforce immigration
laws within the nation, compared to about 10,000 border patrol agents who watch
the frontiers.

To help combat terrorism, President Bush has asked Congress to increase the
immigration agency's budget by about 13 percent to $6.3 billion next year. The
agency would grow to 37,000 employees, including 1,800 more border patrol agents
and immigration inspectors.

The burden for enhancing the agency's border duties as well as its role as
Welcome Wagon falls to Mr. Ziglar, 56, who had a reputation as a strong manager
from his days at Paine Webber -- but no experience in immigration issues.

The administration and Mr. Ziglar set a goal to process all claims for permanent
residency within six months of receiving the claims. Officials said the goal was
to meet that national average by this October, and for all regional offices to
meet it by the end of the 2003 fiscal year.

Critics say that Congress must share some blame for the agency's woes. The cost
of providing services to immigrants is mostly covered by user fees, not
appropriated funds.  But the immigration service must get Congress's approval
before it can spend that money, a process that often takes weeks or months.

In recent years, lawmakers have added programs for the agency to administer
without adequately staffing or financing them, critics said.

"What Congress could do is simplify the law, and curb its appetite for new
programs that divert energies," said David A. Martin, a former general counsel
for the immigration service who now teaches law at the University of Virginia.

Finally, legislation that would give the immigration service access to
information from the Central Intelligence Agency as well as require
tamper-resistant visas passed the House this week, but has been held up in the
Senate.

"We cannot continue to tolerate a flawed information collecting and tracking
system that allows potential terrorists to enter or remain in the United
States," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, a sponsor of
the bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. criticized the
Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday and proposed that it be
replaced. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              411 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 15, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: PRISONERS' RIGHTS;
Group Reports Mistreatment Of Detainees

BYLINE:  By Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 374 words


Many of the 1,200 people detained since the attacks on the United States on
Sept. 11 have had their human rights violated, including their right to know why
they have been held, Amnesty International said yesterday.

The human rights group condemned the policy under which the United States
government has taken some 1,200 noncitizens into custody in a nationwide sweep
for possible suspects connected to the attacks.

Amnesty International said that the United States had violated the detainees'
rights to humane treatment, to have prompt access to a lawyer, to be able to
challenge the lawfulness of their detentions and to be presumed innocent until
proven otherwise.

The group said reports of cruel treatment had also been received. It cited
examples that included prolonged solitary confinement, heavy shackling of
detainees and lack of adequate exercise.

"The government's treatment of these individuals is simply unacceptable and is a
violation of international law," William Schulz, executive director of Amnesty
International, said in a statement.

The Justice Department said in its most recent statement, on Feb. 15, that 327
individuals had been detained on immigration violations or were being
investigated for "possible terrorist connections."

That figure did not include detainees being held under sealed indictments or as
material witnesses, numbers the Justice Department will not divulge, nor those
seeking asylum.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has refused to release the names of immigration
detainees, saying the information would be "too sensitive for public scrutiny."

He has also said the department's efforts to combat terrorism were carefully
planned to avoid infringing on constitutional rights while saving American
lives.

Amnesty International said it had gathered information during visits to two
jails, one in New York and another in New Jersey, and during interviews with
lawyers, detainees, relatives and former detainees.

The group called for a full inquiry into conditions at certain federal detention
centers and urged the authorities to release detailed information on all
detainees.

In addition, it urged that individuals not be deported to countries where they
would be at risk of serious human rights abuses.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              412 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 16, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE IMMIGRATION AGENCY;
4 Top Officials On Immigration Are Replaced

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15


Reeling from the embarrassment of mailing visa extensions this week to two dead
Sept. 11 hijackers, the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced a major
management shakeup today.

Michael Pearson, the head of all field operations and widely recognized as the
agency's third-ranking official, was relieved of his job and will be reassigned,
a Justice Department official said. The agency's director of international
affairs, Jeffrey L. Weiss, will also be reassigned.

In all, four senior officials responsible for immigration services, policies and
enforcement were replaced, officials said.

"The breakdown in communication, highlighted by this week's events, at the
I.N.S. is unacceptable and will not be allowed," James W. Ziglar, the
commissioner of immigration and naturalization, said in a statement. "These
changes begin the process of accountability as we move forward with
restructuring the I.N.S."

The agency's notice approving the student visas for Mohamed Atta and Marwan
al-Shehhi, received this week by a Florida flight school six months after the
attacks, ignited an uproar from the White House to Capitol Hill and renewed
calls to overhaul the agency or abolish it.

Justice Department officials said that the personnel changes made today were
part of Mr. Ziglar's larger plan to separate the agency's service and
enforcement functions, which often conflict with each other.

"These changes were part of a broader restructuring plan that were in the
works," a Justice Department official said. "This week's debacle was the impetus
to move up our timetable to remedy the immediate needs." The service is an
agency of the Justice Department.

Attorney General John Ashcroft, who vowed on Wednesday to hold individuals
accountable for the visa blunder, also sent a letter to Congress today asking
lawmakers to give the agency authority to fire people for misconduct or
incompetence.

The service had such authority from 1998 to 2001, but Congress did not renew it
in this year's budget.

In a letter to Representative Frank R. Wolf, a Virginia Republican who heads the
House Appropriations subcommittee overseeing immigration matters, Mr. Ashcroft
said that "it is essential that I have the authority to quickly discipline or
terminate individuals for acts of negligence, mismanagement or disregard for
Department of Justice policies."

A committee spokesman said the committee was sympathetic to Mr. Ashcroft's
request but would review any proposal "to make sure they can't fire anyone
willy-nilly."

The immigration agency, one of the fastest-growing federal agencies with 35,000
employees and a $5.6 billion budget this year, has long suffered from antiquated
computers and management turmoil. Immigrants and employers have complained of
huge paperwork backlogs and surly service, problems that Mr. Ziglar has promised
to fix.

But the visa extensions this week represented the last straw for many While
House and Justice Department officials.

Mr. Atta and Mr. Shehhi trained at Huffman Aviation International in Venice,
Fla., and are believed to have flown the two planes that destroyed the World
Trade Center.

The immigration service said on Tuesday that the two men were initially notified
last summer of the change in their visa status to student from visitor, but that
the "secondary notification" to the school did not go out until after the
paperwork had been done manually by a contractor.

On Capitol Hill today, lawmakers praised the shakeup, but insisted that the
agency responsible for both patrolling thousands of miles of borders and
monitoring millions of foreigners needed a total revamping.

"I loudly applaud Commissioner Ziglar on the strong first step he took today,"
said Representative Mark Foley, a Florida Republican whose district borders the
Venice flight school. "But the job cannot stop here. There needs to be a
complete, top-to-bottom scrubbing of an agency completely sullied."

The dismissals represent Mr. Ziglar's biggest management reshuffling since he
left his job as sergeant-at-arms of the Senate seven months ago to assume the
helm of the immigration service.

The most significant change involves Johnny Williams, the agency's Western
regional director, replacing Mr. Pearson, a former Army officer who joined the
immigration service in 1997. Overseeing more than 30,000 employees, Mr. Pearson
was ultimately responsible for all activities in the field, including the
mailings that certified the hijackers' visa status.

Mr. Pearson did not respond to messages left with his office or the agency's
command center tonight.

Renee Harris, the border patrol's second-ranking official and highest-ranking
woman, will succeed Mr. Weiss as acting director of international affairs, which
oversees all refugee and asylum programs, as well as the agency's overseas
offices.

Two other changes were intended to bolster the agency's services and enforcement
duties, officials said. Janis Sposato, a career Justice Department official, was
named a top official for immigration services.

Michael Cronin, a senior official overseeing the agency's programs, was named
assistant commissioner for inspections.

Former immigration officials said that moving Mr. Cronin to oversee inspections
would also let Stuart Anderson, the agency's top official for plans and policy,
assert more influence over immigration programs.

Along with Mr. Ziglar, Mr. Anderson, an immigration specialist and former top
Senate Republican aide, is one of the few political appointees at the agency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              413 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 17, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tom Ridge's Homeland Silences

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 626 words


Tom Ridge, head of the Office of Homeland Security, is in the news a lot. This
month, he was in Mexico to negotiate a new border agreement. The other day he
was unveiling a new color-coded warning system on threats to public safety. He
holds news conferences about the administration's plans to defend the nation
against terrorism. But one place Mr. Ridge has not appeared is before the
Congressional committees that oversee and finance homeland security operations.
At the White House's request, Mr. Ridge is refusing to answer Congressional
questions in public. That is beyond puzzling, and the Bush administration should
unmuzzle him immediately.

Last week the furor over the Immigration and Naturalization Service's visa
approvals for two terrorist hijackers underscored how much work needs to be done
in the domestic security area. Congress has many of the same questions the rest
of the nation has about how that could happen and what can be done to keep it
from happening again.

The administration asserts that any questions by Congress should properly be
answered by the various agencies involved, like the I.N.S. That is no doubt
true. But the $38 billion the administration proposes to spend next year on such
security would be spread across more than 80 departments and agencies, according
to the Senate appropriations staff. Mr. Ridge is the one who decided how much
should go to immigration services, as opposed to border patrols or
anti-bioterrorism efforts. Only he can explain the rationale behind those
priorities.

The White House says Mr. Ridge is simply a presidential adviser, like
Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, and that it would be a
violation of executive privilege to have him testify. But this argument makes no
sense, given the fact that Mr. Ridge has been constantly in communication with
Congress behind the scenes. When lawmakers wanted to spend more money on
homeland defenses than the administration recommended last year, it was Mr.
Ridge who wrote to House and Senate leaders to say that spending was sufficient.

For many Democrats, Mr. Ridge's refusal to appear before Congress is part of a
continuing administration effort to keep Congress from prying into its affairs,
an effort that includes Vice President Dick Cheney's refusal to turn over the
names of people consulted by his energy task force. But this is not a partisan
issue. Many Republicans are also asking Mr. Ridge, the former Pennsylvania
governor, to appear. But Representative C. W. Young, the Florida Republican who
leads the House Appropriations Committee, has said it is enough for Mr. Ridge to
meet privately with House members. That would be fine if Congress were a private
club.

Mr. Ridge will need all the good will he can get from Congress as he tackles the
great political swamp of government reorganization. News reports suggest that he
is having some trouble persuading various agencies to hand over their border
operations to a new unified department, combining customs, immigration and other
services, that is to be proposed later this year. States and localities are
going to be squabbling about which ones should get special law enforcement aid.
All these interests have their own defenders on Capitol Hill, and Mr. Ridge
would do well to cultivate Congressional support every chance he has.

On homeland defense, all Americans are on the same page, eager to work together.
Even the least sophisticated Washington observer knows that Congressional
hearings are usually conducted more for the television cameras than to get new
information. But in Mr. Ridge's case, those goals mesh. He is the public face of
our domestic security effort, and he should welcome any chance to share the
administration's thinking with the nation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              414 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Back in U.S., Meeting the Parents;
American Born, Chinese Raised, and Confused

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words


Renhui Tian wept tears of happiness last year at Kennedy International Airport
when he saw two of his sons for the first time since they were infants.

Xiaoxian and Xiaoqin, then 5 and 7, were born in Manhattan's Chinatown. But they
were arriving from Fujian, a rural province in southeastern China, because Mr.
Tian, in a practice common among illegal Chinese immigrants, sent them there as
infants to be raised by their grandparents.

As illegal immigrants who owed smugglers more than $40,000, Mr. Tian and his
wife could not afford to take time off from seven-day-a-week jobs in restaurants
and garment factories to care for their sons or spend the $700 a month asked by
Chinatown's day care centers.

But the Tian boys' reunion with their parents has been difficult, even though
the boys are old enough to go to school. Indeed, children like the Tian boys
pose a significant challenge for New York City's public schools.

Speaking only Fujianese, a dialect that few teachers -- even Chinese-language
bilingual teachers -- can understand, raised by doting but often illiterate
grandparents who neglected their early schooling, sometimes sick with contagious
diseases, the Fujianese children frequently lag behind academically.

At schools, Fujianese children are placed with other students in regular classes
or bilingual classes taught in Mandarin or Cantonese. Since Fujianese students
understand none of these languages, they often keep quiet, talk among themselves
in Fujianese, or simply look lost. Fujianese is as different from Cantonese or
Mandarin, the two languages that New York's bilingual teachers of Chinese speak,
as Yiddish is from German.

"The Fujianese children in general have very poor academic backgrounds," said
Lily Woo, principal of Public School 130 on Baxter Street.

"It's very hard for us to help them, because they speak only Fujianese."

In Fujian, most grandparents do not send their American-born grandchildren to
local schools, even if the children stay in Fujian until they are 9 or 10, said
Peter Kwong, a professor of Asian-American studies at Hunter College who has
studied Fujianese immigrants for many years.

"Their grandparents are very soft on them," said Dr. Kwong, noting that the
grandparents know the children will return to the United States. "The
grandparents believe these kids, who are American citizens, have it made
already. They also think America's education is different; why bother teaching
them stuff in Fujian?"

As a result, he said, many Fujianese children fail to grasp some of the basic
concepts that other children have mastered by the time they enter elementary
school, like the ability to count to 10.

Jeannie Lau, a caseworker at Lower East Side Family Union who is herself a child
of Fujianese immigrants, said that after the children return to New York, "when
their parents want to discipline them, the Fujianese kids' attitude in general
is, 'Who the heck are you? You were never there, and all of a sudden you are
giving me orders?' "

In addition, American schools are disorienting for these children. Ms. Woo said:
"They get scared at school, they cry, and they don't feel they can turn to
anyone, not even their own parents. The people who took care of them when they
were little are gone."

In a way, the challenge posed to the Board of Education by the shifting waves of
Chinese immigrants reflects the fact that administrators are always one step
behind immigration trends. More Fujianese children are returning to New York
every year. The enrollment trend at P.S. 184 on East Broadway is similar to the
other half-dozen schools in the Chinatown area. In 1998, one-fifth of all new
students at P.S. 184 were categorized as Fujianese. In 1999 and 2000, their
number increased to one-third, and last year, it was half. Based on figures
provided by principals, more than 1,000 Fujianese students attend Chinatown's
elementary schools.

The Board of Education, which now supplies enough Cantonese-speaking bilingual
teachers -- two decades after large waves of Cantonese-speaking children entered
the city's public school system -- does not yet offer Fujianese as an option on
the survey forms it sends to parents about languages spoken at home.

Mr. Tian laments that his sons' scores on tests in their kindergarten and
first-grade classes are in the 50's and 60's. He also said that neither of the
pair liked their cramped new home much, and that each cried for at least a
month, asking for their grandparents. "They didn't know we are their parents,"
Mr. Tian said, speaking Mandarin. "They thought Grandma and Grandpa were Mom and
Dad."

Many parents seem at a loss about how to deal with children who are not entirely
familiar to them. "Just the other day, my son came home and lied to me," said
Mrs. Chen, whose 7-year-old child returned from Fujian last year and now attends
P.S. 184. (Mrs. Chen would not give her first name because of her illegal status
in America.)

"He told me he didn't have homework, but he actually did. I wanted to hit him,
but he said he would call A.C.S. and send me to jail," fumed the mother,
referring to the Administration for Children's Services. "Calling A.C.S., that's
the first thing he learned here."

Occasionally, Fujianese children face problems that go beyond schooling. Some
Fujianese children return to New York sick with tuberculosis or hepatitis B,
both endemic in rural China, where health care is inadequate. "The mom would
come to me with her sick child and cry, saying she should never have sent the
child back," said Selina Chan, the head nurse of the Chinatown clinic of St.
Vincent's Manhattan Hospital.

Often, they are overweight or too skinny, because their grandparents did not
enforce balanced diets.

After years of unremitting work, Mr. Tian has his family together, almost. He
toiled 12 hours a day as a cook at Chinese restaurants and his wife equally long
hours as a seamstress. They paid their last installment to the smuggler last
year, 12 years after Mr. Tian arrived, and later in the year, they sent for
Xiaoji, 4, after his older brothers settled in. But their oldest children, 13
and 14, are still living in Fujian with Mr. Tian's parents.

Mr. Tian crossed the border of southern China to Cambodia, where he made it to
Thailand, almost 13 years ago. He was caught by the Thai police and beaten in
jail, he said, but he eventually flew to the United States on a fake passport.
Two years ago, Mr. Tian successfully applied for political asylum in a New York
court, claiming he feared prosecution under China's one-child policy.

Mr. Tian, laid off from his job as a cook after Sept. 11, is looking for ways to
apply for government-subsidized housing. Sharing a 400-square-foot two-bedroom
apartment with another family in a tenement on East Broadway, Mr. Tian, his wife
and their three sons sleep on a full-size bunk bed. The lower layer of the bed
doubles as a desk for Xiaoxian during the day.

Mr. Tian's grueling life here has made him desperate for his children to
succeed. On a recent Tuesday evening, Mr. Tian went to the weekly parents' class
at P.S. 184, which teaches the Chinese parents some basic English and a few
American customs. Mr. Tian, who had never attended school, stared at the
principal, confused, as the other parents hesitantly followed her to pronounce
the word "horse."

"I want my sons to make it here," Mr. Tian, 35, said, smiling apologetically.
"Living as I do is too hard."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Renhui Tian, his wife and three sons sleep in a full-size bunk
bed. They share a two-bedroom apartment in Chinatown with another family. From
left, Xiaoji, Mr. Tian, Xiaoqin and Xiaoxian. Two sons are still in China.
(Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B4); Renhui Tian's sons, from left,
Xiaoxian, Xiaoqin and Xiaoji, came to New York last year from Fujian, in China.
(Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              415 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 20, 2002 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BORDERS;
Bush Leans Toward New Agency To Control Who and What Enters

BYLINE:   By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19


President Bush appears likely to accept a proposal from his domestic defense
advisers to merge parts of the embattled Immigration and Naturalization Service
and the Customs Service into a new agency that would exert firmer control over
who and what enters the country, administration officials said.

The recommendation, which came at a meeting of the Homeland Security Council
conducted this morning by Mr. Bush, signals a significant retreat for the
director of homeland security, Tom Ridge.

Mr. Ridge had advocated a far more ambitious plan that involved creating an
agency including other major government entities that defend America's borders,
like the Coast Guard and parts of the Agriculture Department. But he had to back
off in the face of objections from agencies that recoiled at the prospect of
losing major parts of their departments and budgets.

Mr. Bush has not made a decision, telling his advisers at the end of the meeting
today, "I'll let you know."

Even when he announces his decision, it is subject to approval by Congress,
where the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, expressed considerable skepticism
today.

"I'm not sure this is the answer," Mr. Daschle told reporters, repeating his
demands that Mr. Ridge testify before Congress, a move the White House has
resisted.

The new border control agency would fall under the control of the Justice
Department, officials said, despite Mr. Ridge's concern that a more radical
shift of control is required. The immigration service, which includes the Border
Patrol, has long been a part of the Justice Department, which has apparently
been unable to solve the mismanagement of its operations.

An administration official said that when Mr. Ridge visited a site on the border
with Mexico this month, he was surprised to discover "representatives of lots of
different departments," including the Drug Enforcement Administration, the
Customs Service and the Border Patrol, each working on different initiatives
that were not coordinated because each answered to different bosses.

At today's meeting, the new proposal won the blessing of Attorney General John
Ashcroft, who oversees the immigration agency, and Treasury Secretary Paul H.
O'Neill, whose department governs the Customs Service. The opinion of the two
cabinet officials is likely to influence the president's decision.

Today the director of the immigration service, James W. Ziglar, sounded less
than enthusiastic about the plan. "Assuming the president approves that, the
details of how that will work out probably involve quite bit of work to be
done," Mr. Ziglar said at a luncheon speech. "This is one of those things that
you'd have to transition over a couple of years."

Asked later about his remarks, Mr. Ziglar said he endorsed the proposal and
would support any decision Mr. Bush made. But he is hardly in a good negotiating
position. He is trying to hold on to his job after an immigration agency
contractor sent visa extensions last week to two of the presumed hijackers of
Sept. 11, six months after they died attacking the World Trade Center. The visas
were approved before the hijackings.

Mr. Ziglar told a House Judiciary Committee panel today that the immigration
service was considering changes governing visitor and student visas. One change
would shorten the length of a visitor's visa to 30 days from six months. Another
would require foreigners to obtain student visas before they start classes.
Currently, foreign students can start classes before their visas are approved,
as did Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, the two terrorists whose visa receipts
arrived at their flight school in Florida last week.

While the move of the Customs Service helps put what Mr. Ridge calls "a single
face" at the border, it also puts the Justice Department in the business of
collecting tariffs on goods imported to the United States. That is the main task
of the Customs Service, which was created by the first Congress of the United
States, and it essentially puts the attorney general, whose staff has little
economic training, in charge of one of the more complex tasks in America's
economic relations with its major trading partners.

"The idea of Customs going over to Justice will drive the Customs people
insane," said a House Republican aide who has been involved in the debate on
reorganizing the agencies.

More than 1.3 million people, 340,000 vehicles and 58,000 shipments, it is
estimated, enter the United States every day.

Outside analysts said today they suspected that Mr. Ridge himself was less than
happy with the compromise presented to the president.

"Ridge wanted to have a much larger consolidation," said Ivo Daalder, a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution. "And he wanted an independent agency. In
essence, Ridge lost, because he wanted to make sure that border issues were not
subject to the control of any other cabinet agency. And the attorney general
won."

Mr. Bush's imminent decision on a border agency fed an escalating debate on
Capitol Hill today about Mr. Ridge's accountability to Congress. Mr. Bush has
argued that Mr. Ridge, as a presidential adviser, is not required to testify
before lawmakers.

But senior Democrats and Republicans called on the White House to drop their
objections.

"It's important for Mr. Ridge to do what all of his counterparts do: come before
the appropriate committees of Congress and justify the budget and justify the
policy decisions that they've made," Mr. Daschle said.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said Mr. Ridge need not defend
budgets but should testify on broader policy issues. "He's the head of a
homeland security," Mr. McCain said. "All Americans are hearing from Tom Ridge.
All of the Congress should, too."

Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, has met with senior
White House officials to broker a compromise that would have Mr. Ridge meet
privately with senators. Mr. Daschle appeared to shoot down that idea. "They've
offered that Mr. Ridge come to S-407 to speak with us in secret about his budget
and his responsibilities," he said, referring to a secure room high in the
Capitol where war plans and other classified matters are discussed. "But there
isn't anything secret involved here. This isn't a secret issue."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2002



CORRECTION: A front-page article yesterday about a Bush administration proposal
to consolidate some agencies that control border activity omitted a reference to
the news organization that disclosed the scheduling of a meeting on the subject.
It was The Washington Post.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Ziglar, right, director of the immigration service, and
Rudi Dekkers, the chief executive of Huffman Aviation International. (Paul
Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              416 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Eve of his Trip to Latin America, Bush Ties U.S. Aid To Reforms

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


President Bush is to leave Thursday morning for a four-day trip to Mexico, Peru
and El Salvador, where he will promote trade and counterterrorism as well as
initiatives to help immigrants and a proposed $10 billion increase in American
foreign aid.

Mr. Bush will spend the first two days of his trip to Monterrey, Mexico, at a
conference on global aid to the poor.

He is expected to say definitively that the United States will double its
foreign aid budget from $10 billion to $20 billion over three years. He will
also reiterate that the increase in aid, which he wants to place in what he has
referred to as a "millennium fund," will be contingent on the recipients'
undertaking a range of economic, political and social reforms.

"I'm not interested in funding corruption, period," Mr. Bush said in one of four
interviews with Latin American journalists at the White House today.

He added: "And if a country thinks they're going to get aid from the United
States and they're stealing money, they're not just going to get it out of this
millennium fund. And hopefully not out of any fund."

In an address last week, Mr. Bush announced that the United States would
increase its foreign aid budget by $5 billion over three years. Development
agencies and other countries criticized the figure, arguing that a $5 billion
increase from the richest nation in the world was stingy.

Earlier in the day, Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said that
the administration had not increased the aid to counter the criticism that was
almost certain to be raised in Monterrey.

"This line of thought which just doesn't hold water is that a criticized
administration proposed more," he said. "Keep in mind how much criticism the
administration has had on other issues internationally."

In Monterrey, Mr. Bush will also meet with President Vincente Fox of Mexico and
Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada.

Last night, the White House issued a brief statement offering condolences to the
victims and their families as the anniversary of incident drew near.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              417 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


A front-page article yesterday about a Bush administration proposal to
consolidate some agencies that control border activity omitted a reference to
the news organization that disclosed the scheduling of a meeting on the subject.
It was The Washington Post.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              418 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S.-Mexico Relations: Alliance Meets Boundaries

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, March 22


In the courtship between President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico,
images seem so convincing.

At their third meeting in 13 months, Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox still walk casually
together like friends and banter in English and Spanish like friends. Mr. Bush
still says no nation is more important to the United States than this one, and
Mr. Fox still spins visions of opening the border to a freer flow of immigrants.

But now, the relationship seems high on concept, low on content. Mexico's
exalted position on the American list of allies has stirred imaginations but has
so far deflated expectations.

The meeting today was billed as a fresh start on an ambitious Mexican agenda
that American officials said had been sidelined six months ago by the terrorist
attacks. Mr. Fox arrived here hoping for concrete progress on goals including
immigration reforms that would legalize some 3.5 million undocumented Mexicans
in the United States and expand guest worker programs.

Indeed, the two presidents announced new plans today for modernizing security
measures along their 2,000-mile border and a series of joint public-private
partnerships aimed at stimulating private investments in areas of Mexico with
high immigration rates.

Mexico's rich neighbor has committed more than $1 billion in new money to United
States agencies that manage the border. But United States officials did not say
how much of that money would go to Mexico.

Light-years away from a general amnesty, the United States Senate has still not
voted on a bill that would allow undocumented immigrants to stay in the United
States while applying for permanent residency. Mr. Fox's campaign for open
borders has turned into an effort to make the border more secure.

The limited progress has raised concerns that there is more than terrorism
undermining Mr.Fox's bilateral agenda. With or without the terrorist strikes,
some analysts say, the agenda was doomed to hit the wall of American politics.
Mr. Fox, a former corporate executive, has come to understand that as president,
he may be able to set agendas, but the forces of open government will define the
timeline.

"The relationship was as virtual before Sept. 11 as it is now," said Jorge
Montano, a former Mexican ambassador to the United States. "But the terrorist
attacks gave President Fox an excuse for not achieving his promises. Now he's
having to accept that his friendship with President Bush has great limitations."

Another former Mexican ambassador, Andres Rozental, was more optimistic. "I
don't think President Fox has given up on the U.S. relationship," he said. "I
think simply that reality is setting in that this is going to be a long haul.
The issues are more complicated than ever, but they are still on the agenda."

The links in the United States-Mexico relationship, have been built largely on
the visions of Mr. Fox, a former governor of Guanajuato, a northern Mexican
state largely emptied by immigration to the United States. Mr. Fox traveled to
Washington six months ago and challenged the United States to quickly adopt his
goals for a safer border where immigrant crossings would be controlled more by
demands for labor than law enforcement.

Calling immigration a "shared responsibility," he persuaded the United States to
consider economic support for industrial development in Mexico's poorest
regions. Presenting dozens of ideas about the kinds of laws, programs and
amounts of money needed, Mr. Fox pressed the United States to achieve the dream
by year's end.

Eduardo Sojo, chief economic adviser to Mr. Fox, said that after a series of
setbacks in domestic and foreign policy, the Fox administration has learned that
"political agreements have their own rhythm." Mexico's increasingly independent
Congress no longer answers to the president's whims, and has stalled proposals
for tax reform and Indian rights. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court ruled that it
would not allow suspects to be extradited to the United States in death penalty
or life imprisonment cases.

So the administration has stopped measuring progress by deadlines.

"We think that in the course of this year, or the beginning of next year, we
will be able to achieve a lot that was on our agenda with the United States,"
said Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda. "Either we will have achieved specific
results, or we will have moved forward on the negotiations or we will have
conceptually identified strategies and begun to move forward on them."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              419 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

4 Immigrant Killings Linked to Russian Kidnapping Gang

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 22


After scouring a reservoir for their bodies, federal authorities have identified
the remains of four well-to-do Russian immigrants they believe were the targets
of a gang of Russian kidnappers and extortionists.

Six suspects are in custody, four on kidnapping charges and the others on
charges of receiving about $235,000 in ransom money. None have been charged with
murder, but a spokesman for the United States attorney's office said that the
investigation was still in progress and that more charges could be forthcoming.
A seventh suspect is being sought.

The bodies recovered in recent days from the New Melones reservoir near Sonora,
Calif., have been identified as those of George Safiev, 38, an aspiring film
producer for whom a $5 million ransom had been demanded; his business partner at
Matador Media, Nick Kharabadze, 29; Rita Pekler, 39, an accountant who kept the
film company's books from her office in West Hollywood; and Alexander Umansky,
35, owner of an auto accessories business in North Hollywood.

"There are a lot of unresolved questions that we're hoping to answer in the next
few weeks," said Tom Mrozek, a spokesman for the United States attorney's
office.

All the accused have pleaded not guilty and are being held without bond. The
four people charged are Iouri Mikhel, 36, a resident of Encino; Jurijus
Kadamovas, 35, also of Encino; Petro Krylov, 29, of West Hollywood; and Ainar
Altmanis, 42, of Sherman Oaks.

So far, the kidnapping counts deal only with the disappearances of Mr. Umansky,
who was last seen in early December, and Mr. Safiev, who officials say was
kidnapped on Jan. 20. Mr. Safiev's body was found in the reservoir on Sunday and
Mr. Umansky's a day later. They were both identified late Wednesday.

The other defendants, who are charged with receiving ransom money, are Andrei
Agueev and Andrei Liapine. They were arrested by federal agents in Dubai, in the
United Arab Emirates, and flown here.

Mr. Agueev's lawyer, Victor Sherman, said in an interview today that his client
had been "kidnapped in Dubai and brought to the United States," along with Mr.
Liapine. During the flight, Mr. Sherman said, the agents questioned the two men.

"The government knows from that interview that the money was in fact given to a
third party," Mr. Sherman said. "My client has a perfectly reasonable
explanation, so I'm baffled as to why he's even being prosecuted."

The federal indictment says the kidnappers "threatened to kill, injure and
continue to detain" Mr. Umansky unless they were paid more than $234,000. The
documents indicate that Mr. Umansky, the owner of Hard Wired Auto Accessories,
was last seen leaving his office on the evening of Dec. 13.

The next day, Mr. Umansky's father, Ruven, went to the office and discovered
three identical ransom notes that had been faxed there demanding $234,628. Mr.
Umansky's brother, Michael, received an identical ransom note on his home fax in
San Francisco the same day. The F.B.I. said all four faxes were sent from
Russia, though it could not pinpoint the location.

Four days after Mr. Umansky disappeared, his family paid approximately $90,000
in ransom by wiring the money to a bank in New York that sent it to a branch in
Dubai. The same day, Mr. Umansky called his brother to ask whether the money had
been sent. It was the last time his family heard from him, F.B.I. officials
said.

On Dec. 27, after being told they would not hear from Mr. Umansky until the full
ransom was paid, the family wired about $145,000 that wound up in an account
controlled by Mr. Agueev, according to the court documents.

Wire transfer records showed that some of the Umansky ransom money was later
sent to a Bank of America account in Studio City, Calif., in the name of
Designed Water World, Inc. In early February, Mr. Mikhel and Mr. Kadamovas each
applied for $10 million life insurance policies, and identified themselves as
co-owners of Designed Water World.

Another of the defendants, Mr. Krylov, had worked for Mr. Umansky at Hard Wired
for about 18 months, until he was fired in 2001. Electronic equipment taken from
Mr. Umansky's truck was recovered from Mr. Altmanis's residence.

In a phone call on Jan. 24, four days after he disappeared, Mr. Safiev answered
"yes" when an associate asked whether he had been kidnapped. Mr. Safiev
instructed his office to make available nearly $1 million, although it was not
clear who the recipient was to be.

"These were fantastic guys," said Olga Preiss, the project coordinator at
Matador Media, the company founded a year ago by Mr. Safiev and Mr. Kharabadze.
"I can bet my life that no one would be able to say anything negative about
them."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nick Kharabadze's body was found in a California reservoir.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              420 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Mere Terrorist

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 759 words


There was something symbolic about the fact that the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service sent out letters approving visas for the terrorist
leaders Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi and that those letters arrived at
their Florida flight school on the six-month anniversary of the Sept. 11
massacre, which the two of them directed. Some things you just can't make up.

It was symbolic precisely because we are forgetting some of the most important
truths about Sept. 11 -- so why shouldn't the I.N.S.? Sept. 11 was about a very
new kind of threat. And it wasn't mere terrorism.

Real terrorists don't want to kill a lot of people. Rather, they use limited,
but indiscriminate, violence or hijacking to create noise or fear that draws
attention to their cause and ultimately builds political or diplomatic pressure
for a specific objective.

That's why Osama bin Laden is not a mere terrorist. He has much larger
aspirations. He is a super-empowered angry man who has all the geopolitical
objectives and instincts of a nation-state. He has employed violence not to grab
headlines but to kill as many Americans as possible to drive them out of the
Islamic world and weaken their society. That's why the Sept. 11 hijackers never
left a list of demands, as terrorists usually do. Their act was their demand.
Their demand is total victory.

What enabled bin Laden, as a super-empowered angry man, to challenge a
superpower was his ability to invent his own missile delivery system to rival
ours. We have computer-guided missiles. He had human guided missiles: 19 young,
educated Arab men ready to hijack an airliner and commit suicide with it against
a major target. But always remember that Sept. 11 could have been worse. One of
bin Laden's human missiles could have carried a nuclear device. The only reason
it didn't happen was because the hijackers couldn't get one.

Since that is the case, the proper, long-term U.S. strategic response to Sept.
11 should be twofold: First, we must understand exactly who these 19 suicide
bombers were and how they were recruited. We need to know how these human guided
missiles are assembled. Second, we need to launch an all-out global effort to
make sure that all nuclear and biological warfare materials are under as tight a
control as possible.

"Historically, there has always been a gap between people's individual anger and
what they could do with their anger," said the Harvard University strategist
Graham Allison. "But thanks to modern technology, and the willingness of people
to commit suicide, really angry individuals can now kill millions of people if
they can get the right materials. We can't change their intentions overnight,
but we can make sure that the materials that can transform their rage into
something that threatens us all are locked away in places as secure as Fort
Knox."

That means investing even more U.S. energy and money in working with Russia to
secure its stockpiles because Russia and America have 99 percent of the world's
nuclear and biowarfare materials. And, after Russia, focusing on China, India,
Pakistan, Iran and Iraq. Unfortunately, the Bush team seems to focus only on
Iraq. It's not that Iraq is not a problem, but it's not at the top of my list.

What worries me most for my daughters' future is not Saddam Hussein. He's a
homicidal dictator who can be deterred, or eliminated, by conventional means.
No, what worries me most is the fact that we still don't understand who those 19
hijackers were. What worries me is that nearly every day for the past six
months, Palestinian men and women -- many of them secular, not religious -- have
strapped dynamite around their waists and blown themselves up against Israeli
targets. How do you deter young people who hate us, or Israel, more than they
love their own families or their own future?

It will take us a long time, and much diplomatic therapy, to cure such
intentions. But what we can do now is limit the capabilities of such people. We
are not the only ones with an interest in this. If suicidal warfare becomes
"normal," the Arab regimes won't be spared. Because once people feel empowered
by this sort of thing, they won't stop with just the infidels -- they will turn
it on their own autocrats. And if it becomes "normal," it will be awful for
Palestinians, because how their state is born matters, and a state brought about
by suicide bombers will forever be deformed.

And if it becomes "normal" in this integrated world, it will touch your kids and
mine in a way that will make Iraq look like a day at the beach.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              421 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 24, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Chicago and Mexico Again Linked by Air

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section 5; Column 2; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 155 words


After more than 40 years, flights have resumed from Midway Airport in Chicago to
Mexico. The airlines involved are Mexicana and American Trans Air.

The last Midway service by Mexicana to Mexico City ended in 1959, said Monique
Bond, a spokeswoman for the airport.

Mexicana has five flights a week from Midway to Guadalajara, three to the nearby
city of Morelia and one to Zacatecas in central Mexico. The airline also flies
to Mexico from O'Hare Airport. Fernando Flores, Mexicana chief executive, said
that Midway is much closer than O'Hare to the Chicago neighborhoods where many
Mexican immigrants live.

American Trans Air has a flight to the resort city of Cancun every day but
Thursday, and to Guadalajara every day but Wednesday.

The resumption of Midway's service to Mexico followed construction of a new area
where passengers can be screened by federal immigration, Customs and agriculture
officials.   DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              422 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: 3 Accused Of Forced Servitude

BYLINE:  By Robert F. Worth (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 117 words


Three men were charged yesterday with holding three immigrant women against
their will and forcing them to work as prostitutes in Brooklyn and Connecticut,
the authorities said.

According to an indictment filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the men
induced the women to come to the United States from Indonesia, promising them
work in restaurants. Instead, they were taken to brothels where they were forced
to work as prostitutes until one of them escaped and told the police. The men,
Chai Hock Ng, Kian Chai Ong and Sadiman Tio, were charged with involuntary
servitude, forced labor and other crimes. They would face sentences of up to
life in prison if convicted.   Robert F. Worth (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              423 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 27, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Safety Requires a Shift in Priorities

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 166 words


To the Editor:

Re "Bush Leans Toward New Agency to Control Who and What Enters" (front page,
March 20):

No doubt the Immigration and Naturalization Service needs reform.

But more urgent is our need for a national debate about when the population of
the United States should stop growing.

At present rates, our population will double in fewer than 70 years, mostly due
to the largest number of immigrants in American history and the descendants of
those immigrants. This growth, the highest among large industrialized nations,
suppresses wages, thereby enhancing profits in many cheap-labor industries. But
the harm caused by too many people far outstrips any corporate advantage.

Our government owes us a study to establish a numbers goal for our democracy to
strive toward. With water shortages at home, our huge demand on world resources
plus our responsibility for 25 percent of global climate change, the world can't
afford any more Americans.

ALAN KUPER
Cleveland Heights, Ohio
March 20, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              424 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 28, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bronx School Defies Norm, With Whites Lagging on Tests

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 810 words


At first glance, Public School 8 in the Bedford Park section of the Bronx seems
a fairly typical New York City school. It has about 1,200 students, 84 percent
of them poor enough to qualify for the federal free lunch program. It is
overcrowded, with a waiting list for kindergarten and up to 32 students per
class. Nearly a third of its students are children of immigrants and are
learning English as a second language.

But the new school report cards issued yesterday show that P.S. 8 is atypical in
one significant way: its black and Hispanic students are outperforming its white
students on standardized tests. The school's high poverty rate distinguishes it
from other city schools that have little or no racial achievement gap, most of
which enroll relatively few poor students.

The reverse gap, so to speak, at Public School 8 is partly explained by quirky
immigration patterns. The student body is 68 percent Hispanic, 12 percent white,
12 percent black and 8 percent Asian. But while most of the black students are
American-born, the whites are as likely as the Hispanics and Asians to have come
from another country. Many immigrants from Albania and other Balkan nations
settle in Bedford Park, a quiet working-class neighborhood near the New York
Botanical Garden, and dozens of their children are slowly learning English as
they attend P.S. 8.

Because of the language barrier, many of these white immigrants struggle to pass
the state reading and math exams in fourth grade, said Robert Weinstein, the
school principal. While Hispanic immigrants face the same challenge, he said,
they are more likely to enter P.S. 8 as kindergartners and receive several years
of intensive English instruction before taking the fourth-grade tests. Many
Balkan immigrants enroll at P.S. 8 when they are 8 or 9, so that they have less
time to prepare.

Scores on the tests are grouped into four levels. Students whose scores are in
Levels 3 and 4 are considered at or above the state standards, while those in
Levels 1 and 2 have met the standards only partly or not at all. At P.S. 8, 32
percent of white students scored in Levels 3 and 4 on the fourth-grade reading
test last year, compared with 40.3 percent of Hispanics, 58.6 percent of blacks
and 71.4 percent of Asians.

That picture contrasts sharply with the citywide data, which shows that 69.8
percent of the city's white fourth graders score in Levels 3 and 4, compared
with 35.4 percent of Hispanics, 36.6 percent of blacks and 65.1 percent of
Asians.

On the fourth-grade math exam, 50 percent of white students at P.S. 8 scored in
Levels 3 and 4, compared with 54.5 percent of Hispanics, 58.6 percent of blacks
and 71.4 percent of Asians. Citywide, 77.2 percent of white fourth graders score
in Levels 3 and 4, compared with 41.3 percent of blacks, 45 percent of Hispanics
and 80.5 percent of Asians.

Mr. Weinstein believes that while immigration patterns help explain the test
scores at his school, they tell only part of the story. They do not, for
example, explain why black students at P.S. 8 score much higher, on average,
than black students citywide. But Mr. Weinstein has some other theories about
his students' scores.

Since P.S. 8 has such a high poverty rate, it receives millions of extra dollars
a year in federal grants, which Mr. Weinstein uses to ensure that teachers are
well trained and that struggling students get extra help. He has used some of
the money to hire remedial reading teachers to work with students in small
groups; to train teachers in working with students who have language barriers;
and to provide two after-school programs: one for students who scored in Levels
1 and 2 on the state tests, and another for students struggling to learn
English.

Starting next month, fourth graders will have the option of attending a math
workshop two mornings a week before school starts to better prepare for the
state's fourth-grade math exam in May.

Another possible factor is most classrooms at P.S. 8 have students with varying
levels of ability, rather than have high achievers in one class and low
achievers in another. In an experiment proposed by parents, this year for the
first time each grade has one classroom with only high-achieving students -- a
change that Mr. Weinstein has reservations about. Struggling students may be
more likely to improve if they are in a class with high achievers, he said.

Mr. Weinstein also tries hard to involve parents in their children's education,
holding evening workshops several times a year to teach them how to help their
children read, write and do math. The workshops are well attended by parents of
all races, he said.

"When you think about all the variables, it starts to make sense," Mr. Weinstein
said of the school's anomalous performance data. "It validates our goal, which
is to provide education to all children in an equitable way."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Black, Hispanic and Asian students at Public School 8 in the
Bronx outperformed whites in the standard fourth-grade tests. (Ozier
Muhammad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              425 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 1, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

When a College Is Out of Reach

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 143 words


To the Editor:

"Pricing the Poor Out of College" (editorial, March 27) doesn't mention a
significant reason many low-income students don't get Pell grants: they aren't
citizens and don't have permanent resident status.

Federal rules prohibit granting student financial aid to undocumented
immigrants, even if they have lived here for years, learned the language and
performed at the top of their class in high school.

Federal law also sets a standard for state schools that imposes higher,
out-of-state tuition on such students.

These students will likely live the balance of their lives in the United States.
Higher education makes a huge difference in lifetime earning power. We should
encourage immigrants to go to college, not thwart their efforts.

RONAY MENSCHEL
New York, March 28, 2002

The writer is a vice chairman of the board of Cornell University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jim Frazier)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              426 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Union Accuses Kirov

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 179 words


The American Federation of Musicians has accused the Kirov Opera and Ballet
Orchestra of stealing work from American musicians by recording a film
soundtrack while in Washington in February to perform at the Kennedy Center.

In a letter to the Immigration and Naturalization Service on March 4, Thomas F.
Lee, the president of the musicians union, called the act "economic terrorism
which victimized hard-working American musicians."

Asserting that the recording sessions were not listed in the Kirov's visa
application, he asked that no further visa be issued for the orchestra until the
union was "assured they are not entering this country to ruin established
employment for our membership." He added, "They do not receive our wages,
benefits or residual rights, nor do they pay taxes that we are aware of."

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said:
"Clearly this is not the kind of thing that one can or should make a snap
judgment on."

The Kirov Orchestra is scheduled to appear at the Metropolitan Opera House from
July 8 to 20.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              427 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths;
FRIEDMAN, ISIDORE

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 333 words


FRIEDMAN-Isidore. Passed away in Jerusalem on April 9, 2002 at the age of 95.
Born in Belgium, a WW II veteran, he immigrated to New York in 1941. He was an
active Zionist and Secretary and Arbitrator of the Diamond Dealers Club. His
community activities included Congregation Morya, Israel Bonds, Bar Ilan
University, Shaare Zedek Memory Clinic, MatanWoman's Institute for Torah Studies
and Kolech-Religious Women's Forum. He is survived by Nathalie Kleinhaus
Friedman, his wife of 64 years, two daughters, Rachel Shalev and Suzanne Hoch
stein, sons-in-law Joseph and Micky, grandchildren and great grandchildren.

FRIEDMAN-Isidore. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University and the university
in Israel mourn the passing of an outstanding Jewish communal leader and one of
its important benefactors for many years, Isidore Friedman. We extend
condolences to his wife Nathalie, daughters Rachel, Suzanne and the entire
family. At Bar-Ilan University, he sponsored substantial programs including a
significant lectureship, and was a member of our Presidential Founders Society.
We share with the family many inspiring memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman,
Chancellor Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President, Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein,
President, American Board of Trustees

FRIEDMAN-Isidore. It is with sadness that we learned of the death of our beloved
uncle, Isidore Friedman. While living in the U.S., he provided visa sponsorship
for us and other refugees enabling us to reach the safety of these shores. His
generosity, good deeds and wise counsel will be missed by us all. Rosy and
Yitzhak Stub, and Silvia and Nathan Drenger, and their children and
grandchildren

FRIEDMAN-Isidore. We regret to announce the death of our beloved board member
Isidore Friedman. Our sincerest condolences to his devoted wife Natalie, his
daughters Rachel Shalev and Suzanne Hochstein, grandchildren and great
grandchildren. Shiva observed at Rechov Alharisi 34, Jerusalem 92421. Rabbi
Joseph Weiss, Congregation Morya

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              428 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

RITUALS;
Slap-Shot Sundays, By Way of the Web

BYLINE:  By BRUCE HEADLAM

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words


LIKE many immigrants living in New York City, I wanted to preserve some of the
customs of my homeland, which is Canada. And, like many immigrants, I suspect, I
have failed almost completely.

Last July 4, I climbed up on the roof of my building to watch the fireworks over
the East River, but I barely took notice of Canada's birthday three days
earlier. On Canadian Thanksgiving, we ordered in Chinese, the surest sign I had
given up my native customs for New York's.

But there is one ritual I've managed to keep. Where I grew up, Saturday night is
hockey night, which means that everyone west of Ottawa and east of Alberta is
engaged in precisely the same activity: wondering how the Toronto Maple Leafs
are going to blow it again this season. (Leaf fans are like Red Sox fans with
short-term memory loss: they know the team is cursed; they just can't remember
why.)

The real action every Saturday night takes place during the first intermission
when the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation shows a seven-minute segment called
"Coach's Corner" featuring Don Cherry, a former career minor-league brawler and
the coach of the Boston Bruins.

For those who haven't seen Mr. Cherry in action, imagine Howard Cosell's
bluster, Bill O'Reilly's manners and Ted Baxter's suits. Each week, Mr. Cherry
beats the same drums: the National Hockey League is destroying the sport, the
politicians are destroying the country and his employers are trying to destroy
him. He threatens the camera, mangles the names of Russian forwards and knocks
away the moderating arm of his long-suffering co-host, Ron Maclean, like Atilla
the Hun fighting for an armrest. Imagine "Crossfire" with actual physical
contact.

And in a country where politeness, deference and order are the highest virtues
(sample joke: How do you get all the Canadians out of a pool? You say "All
Canadians out of the pool."), Mr. Cherry may be the only public figure not
running for political office who declares that Canada is the greatest country on
earth.

Even in Quebec, where Mr. Cherry is judged (unfairly) a French-baiting goon, the
bars grow quiet during the first intermission as bartenders quietly switch the
televisions over to the English network. The country may be divided, but
everyone tunes in.

Except for me, sitting in my New York City apartment on a hockeyless Saturday
night. For the first few months after I moved here, I called my friends, asking
them to repeat Mr. Cherry's best lines. Eventually, my girlfriend in Toronto
took pity on me and phoned during the intermission, holding the receiver to the
television so that I could hear every monosyllable -- an extraordinary gesture
from someone who once demanded that my own hockey equipment be kept in the
garage. Or burned.

Then, during the 2000 playoffs (Toronto lost, but how?), I discovered to my
delight that the CBC was posting "Coach's Corner," the whole seven glorious
minutes, on its Web site (cbc.ca/sports). There it was: the stitched face, the
fractured English, the angry gestures, the plaid jackets that challenged the
fastest Internet connection.

I bought a headset for my computer and every Sunday morning for the last two
years, leaned closer to my monitor to take in every word, decipher every
pixilated gesture.

When Mr. Cherry blamed the referees, I blamed the referees. When Mr. Cherry said
Canadian players were the best in the world, I murmured "right on," and when the
Canadian teams won both gold medals at the Olympics, I cheered. When Mr. Cherry
choked up reading a letter from a father whose little boy had fallen through
thin ice and died (while playing hockey, of course), I choked up too and worried
about the coming spring thaw.

It was then that I began looking at "Coach's Corner" in a different way. The
insults, the sentimentality, the two-fisted nationalism, the car-salesman suits
had always represented something quintessentially Canadian to me. But watching
over the Web, it suddenly all seemed so . . . American somehow. It made sense:
Mr. Cherry spent most of his working life in the United States. Maybe he was
right, after all. Maybe what I once thought was parochialism was really the
unobstructed view of the outsider.

As I sat in my New York City apartment with my Starbucks coffee, fretting about
thin ice, I realized that I was becoming an outsider, too. That's not all bad.
After four years away, I can now declare out loud that Canada is the greatest
country on the earth. But please, don't tell my friends back home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lars Leetaru)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              429 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
Is This Any Way to Run a Nation?

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1002 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE Immigration and Naturalization Service mailed out visa extensions last month
for two of the Sept. 11 hijackers. The Federal Aviation Administration is still
sending newsletters to at least one of the other dead terrorists.

The Interior Department stands accused of mismanaging a 115-year-old trust fund
that distributes as much as $500 million a year for 500,000 Native Americans.
The agency is also drafting new policies and retraining employees after an audit
revealed last week that workers were using their government-issued credit cards
to pay for rent, furniture and other personal expenses.

The Internal Revenue Service is apparently not even trying to go after rich
people any more, but instead is beefing up scrutiny of small business owners
earning less than $25,000 a year.

That's just a short list of the woes plaguing federal agencies these days. But
it's enough to make any civic-minded American ask: does anything work well in
Washington these days?

"Every week brings new examples of federal agencies not just performing poorly,
but performing stupidly," said Paul C. Light, director of the Brookings
Institution's governmental studies program.

Mr. Light pointed out that President Bush hasn't publicly praised the nation's
civil servants since last October, not even in his State of the Union address,
in which he lauded the military, firefighters, flight attendants and an array of
other workers.

In fact, the White House Office of Management and Budget declared in Mr. Bush's
management agenda for fiscal 2002 that government programs too often deliver
inadequate services at excessive cost. The General Accounting Office identified
23 areas in the government that are at high risk for waste, fraud and abuse, up
from 14 areas a decade ago.

None of which is too surprising to the American public. Fairly or not, the
federal government has always suffered in comparison to private industry: it is
commonly seen as a plodding, faceless bureaucracy that can't keep pace with
corporate America's efficient, profit-driven go-getters. Even so, until recently
federal foibles -- even at their most infuriating -- would draw shrugs from most
taxpayers.

"Before Sept. 11, there was a bit of a blase attitude of, 'O.K., the government
screwed up again,' " said Louis A. Clark, executive director of the Government
Accountability Project, a nonprofit group that helps protect whistleblowers.
"Now people see the consequences on their lives, and see the necessity of
government functioning well."

The new scrutiny has revealed years, if not decades, of benign neglect,
cost-cutting and staff reductions in many federal agencies -- changes that
analysts say accelerated after the end of the cold war (and that some critics of
big government have said were overdue).

In a survey last year of 1,051 randomly selected federal employees, the
Brookings Institution found that those interviewed felt they were well matched
in their jobs but lacked the necessary resources to do their work well.

"There's a real sense in our data" that "federal employees feel they don't have
access to technology and information, and that there are just not enough people
to do all the work," Mr. Light said.

Brookings has re-interviewed about half of the original group since Sept. 11,
and found that with the exception of Pentagon workers -- who have generally
received high marks for efficiency in the past -- the trend is worsening.
"Everyone's feeling worse except at the Defense Department, where they have a
dream mission, a secretary who's really hot and clear signs of success," Mr.
Light said.

SO is any other agency doing well these days? It depends on how you measure
success. As in most large bureaucracies, progress comes in fits and starts, and
rarely through radical solutions, like the current proposals to split up the
I.N.S.

The much-maligned I.R.S. has made strides toward improving its services and
practices, experts say, but Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican and
one of the service's fiercest critics, assailed the agency recently for losing
track of 2,300 computers. (Never mind the fact, experts say, that two years ago
the I.R.S. didn't even have a system in place to tell anyone how many computers
might be missing.)

The Justice Department, in an effort to gain more information about terrorism,
is expanding its program of interviewing young, mostly Muslim foreign men
visiting the United States. Yet the department acknowledged that it was able to
locate and interview fewer than half of some 4,800 young men with whom it wanted
to speak in the first round of interviews, which began last November.

But even if the state of affairs at many agencies appears hopeless enough to
make St. Jude shudder, there are some bright spots, according to Timothy B.
Clark, editor of Government Executive magazine, which together with George
Washington University issues an annual report card grading the efficiency of
federal agencies in various categories.

For the most part, the days of $640 toilet seats and $435 hammers are gone. The
Coast Guard, Social Security Administration and National Weather Service all
earned overall A's within the last three years. The Coast Guard, for example,
has managed a declining budget effectively and made a persuasive case to
Congress for the need to replace its aging fleet, Mr. Clark said.

Even the beleaguered Postal Service received an A-minus last year, presumably
before serious fiscal problems helped prompt a price increase this summer, to 37
cents for a first-class letter.

Government officials, of course, accentuate the positive. Exhibit A: the Office
of Personnel Management's Web site, which typically advertises 17,000 federal
jobs, has registered a sharp jump in activity since Sept. 11. Applications are
up for the agency's presidential management intern program.

"All of government is neither bad or good," said Victor S. Rezendes, a managing
director at the General Accounting Office. "But these snafus take on extra
meaning when the stakes are higher."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Miles of aisles: doing business at the United States Post Office
in New York City. (Philip Greenberg) Chart: "Note to Forest Service: You're
Grounded"A grading scale for government agencies was devised by Government
Executive magazine. Below are the grades given to a few agencies in 2001.
CATEGORY: Overall GradeAgency: National Weather Service -- AAgency: Postal
Service -- A-Agency: NASA -- BAgency: Bureau of Consular Affairs -- CAgency:
Forest Service -- CAgency: Bureau Of Indian Affairs -- D CATEGORY: Managing for
resultsAgency: National Weather Service -- AAgency: Postal Service -- AAgency:
NASA -- BAgency: Bureau of Consular Affairs -- CAgency: Forest Service --
CAgency: Bureau Of Indian Affairs -- D CATEGORY: Financial managementAgency:
National Weather Service -- AAgency: Postal Service -- AAgency: NASA -- CAgency:
Bureau of Consular Affairs -- CAgency: Forest Service -- DAgency: Bureau Of
Indian Affairs -- C CATEGORY: Human resources managementAgency: National Weather
Service -- AAgency: Postal Service -- CAgency: NASA -- BAgency: Bureau of
Consular Affairs -- CAgency: Forest Service -- BAgency: Bureau Of Indian Affairs
-- C CATEGORY: Information managementAgency: National Weather Service --
AAgency: Postal Service -- BAgency: NASA -- BAgency: Bureau of Consular Affairs
-- BAgency: Forest Service -- CAgency: Bureau Of Indian Affairs -- D CATEGORY:
Physical assets managementAgency: National Weather Service -- AAgency: Postal
Service -- AAgency: NASA -- BAgency: Bureau of Consular Affairs -- n/aAgency:
Forest Service -- CAgency: Bureau Of Indian Affairs -- D

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              430 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Money For Civil Liberties Grants

BYLINE:  By Stephanie Strom (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words


A philanthropic group founded by the billionaire George Soros will award grants
to groups seeking to protect the rights of Arab and other immigrant groups in
the wave of anti-Arab feeling since the Sept. 11 terror attacks.

The Soros group, the Open Society Institute, will give $2.5 million to 29
nonprofit organizations nationwide. The largest grant, $350,000, will go to the
Tides Foundation for its fund for Arab, Muslim, Sikh and South Asian
organizations responding to "erosions of civil liberties and rights." Unlike
other Soros philanthropies that promote democracy internationally, the Open
Society said its mission was to correct what it sees as deficiencies in American
democracy.   Stephanie Strom (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              431 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Critic of China Is Denied Entry To Hong Kong

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 15


Immigration authorities here refused entry late Sunday night to the most
prominent critic of prison labor in China, Harry Wu, and sent him back to the
United States this morning after detaining him overnight at the airport, his
wife and human rights advocates said.

Mr. Wu's wife, Ching Lee Wu, said in a telephone interview from Washington that
her husband had only been told by immigration officials that he was being denied
entry "because of safety," without any explanation of whether that meant public
safety or his personal safety.

Mr. Wu, who served 19 years in a Chinese prison for "rightist" views, is now an
American citizen. Americans are normally allowed to enter Hong Kong without
visas.

The American Consulate asked the Hong Kong government this morning to explain
why Mr. Wu had been turned back. "This could have the effect of limiting freedom
of association and restricting the free flow of ideas," said Barbara Zigli, a
consular spokeswoman.

The Hong Kong government issued a statement this afternoon that did not comment
on Mr. Wu specifically. It noted that in allowing entry to Hong Kong,
immigration officials take "into consideration a range of factors, including the
overall interest of Hong Kong."

The decisions of Hong Kong immigration authorities are closely scrutinized here
for signs of whether the leadership of this former British colony has become
more subservient to Beijing's leadership since the territory was handed over to
Chinese rule in 1997. For decades, people who have upset China's rulers have
found haven here.

Han Dongfang, who has taken refuge here since 1993 after angering Chinese
leaders with his calls for free labor unions, said the decision to deny entry to
Mr. Wu was surprising because Hong Kong allowed the entry last summer of Li
Shaomin, a Chinese-born American scholar who seemed to present very similar
legal issues. Like Mr. Wu, Mr. Li had previously been convicted in China of
espionage -- a common accusation against political critics -- and then deported
to the United States.

Mr. Wu has become well known for his work to expose the use of prison labor in
China. In 1991, he posed as a businessman and visited four Chinese prison camps,
including at least one where he had previously served part of his 19-year prison
term. He struck deals with camp managers for the purchase of low-cost goods for
the American market.

A television crew for "60 Minutes" filmed his trip, and the show prompted
Congressional hearings because international conventions bar the export of goods
made with prison labor. China has denied that it allows such exports, but Mr. Wu
has disagreed and campaigned since 1991 for improvements at the prison camps.

Mr. Wu was arrested when he tried to enter China on June 19, 1995, to document
the use of prison labor. He was accused of espionage in a case that became a
diplomatic incident with the United States. After he spent two months in prison,
the Chinese government found him guilty and sentenced him to 15 years in jail,
but then deported him a day later.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Wu, a prominent critic of convict labor in China.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              432 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Border Patrol Reorganization

BYLINE:  By Eric Schmitt (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 107 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it was streamlining the
operations of the Border Patrol and its nationwide detention facilities to make
them more directly accountable to headquarters. The service, which has recently
suffered a rash of embarrassing incidents that have fueled the calls for its
abolition, also said it would create two new positions, chief financial officer
and chief information officer. Under the new chain of command, each of the
Border Patrol's 21 sector chiefs will report directly to the head of the Border
Patrol in Washington, instead of to a regional immigration service director.
   Eric Schmitt (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              433 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE INVESTIGATION;
African Held After Name Is Left in Cave

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17


A 44-year-old Tanzanian man was arrested this week on immigration charges in
North Carolina after his name was found on a document retrieved in Afghanistan
in which he was congratulated for receiving a pilot's license, government
officials said today.

The officials said they had no other evidence to suggest that the Tanzanian,
Issaya Nombo, might be tied to members of the Qaeda terrorist network, who
appear to have left the document in a cave while fleeing advancing American
forces.

The document raised suspicions, the officials said, because several Qaeda
members involved in the Sept. 11 terror attacks had received pilot training in
the United States.

Mr. Nombo was arrested in Apex, N.C., near Raleigh, after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service determined that he had overstayed a student visa that
required him to leave the United States by last Aug. 23.

The officials said he was found in possession of a counterfeit green card, which
he might have used to find work in North Carolina, and a counterfeit Social
Security card. They said Mr. Nombo had denied any involvement with terrorism or
with Muslim fundamentalism, saying he was a Roman Catholic.

Officials said the document found in the cave appeared to be a letter from the
Voyager Aviation flight school in Titusville, Fla., congratulating Mr. Nombo on
receiving a commercial pilot's license last year. Federal aviation records show
that Mr. Nombo was awarded an airline transport pilot license, or A.T.P., last
June, allowing him to fly multiengine commercial planes.

A spokesman for the school did not return calls today. The school's owner, Gary
Evans, was quoted by The Associated Press as confirming that Mr. Nombo had
received pilot training there. "The F.B.I. were here last week, and I've been
instructed not to discuss it," Mr. Evans said.

On the Voyager Aviation Web site, Mr. Evans has posted congratulatory notices to
students who have recently earned various flight certifications, including Mr.
Nombo. "Congratulations Issaya Nombo on completing your A.T.P.!" it reads. The
Web site said the sort of training received by Mr. Nombo would cost $1,620.

Spokesmen for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in North Carolina and the
police department in Apex had no immediate comment on Mr. Nombo's arrest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              434 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amnesty Accuses Spain of Racism in Its Treatment of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By EMMA DALY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: MADRID, April 18


Amnesty International has accused Spain, the steppingstone to Europe for
thousands of poor immigrants, of "frequent and widespread" mistreatment of
foreigners and ethnic minorities, including torture, and called for the
authorities to adopt a plan to combat racism.

The organization's report, the first on racism in a European country,
investigated more than 320 cases of abuse from 1995 to 2002, including deaths
and rapes while in custody, beatings and verbal abuse. Amnesty International
also expressed concern about the widespread use of racial profiling by the
police.

"The cases we have documented show a pattern of violation by law enforcement
officers of the rights of members of ethnic minorities or persons of non-Spanish
origin," writes Gillian Fleming, the author of the report. "Discrimination
against these people, tolerated by the authorities, makes them especially
vulnerable to torture and ill treatment by state officials."

The economic boom in Spain in the last few years, and its position at a southern
frontier of Europe, has spurred an increase in immigration.

The number of foreigners living legally in Spain has risen sharply in 20 years,
with an 18 percent increase in 2000 alone, to 1.1 million. The number was about
200,000 in 1981, the report said. Moroccans make up the largest group, followed
by Ecuadoreans.

Amnesty International focused on Spain in part because it currently holds the
presidency of the European Union.

It says that racist attacks have increased as the immigrant population has
grown, with the recent influx bringing about "a general recognition that racism
and xenophobia are at least as serious a problem in Spain as elsewhere in
Europe."

In the report, the human rights group detailed the cases of four immigrants who
died in police custody, as well as five women who reported being raped or
sexually assaulted.

It also examined the plight of children living without their families or in the
street. The report says immigrant children often face abuse, deportation without
regard to the law or their family situation, and a lack of protection and legal
representation.

"Physical ill treatment and abuse of authority by police officers," Amnesty
International said, was "frequent and widespread," although, for a variety of
reasons, "only a small number of ill-treatment cases result in judicial
complaints."

The report says many undocumented immigrants, "living in the hope of receiving
work and residence permits, are afraid to lodge complaints with the police or
courts." Even when complaints are made, investigations have fallen short of
international standards, the reports finds.

In its discussion of racial profiling, the report cited the case of Rodney Mack,
an African-American who is principal trumpet player with the Barcelona Symphony
Orchestra, who said he was badly beaten by officers in Barcelona looking for a
black car thief.

In Spain, Amnesty International found, officers routinely detain black people
and members of other ethnic minorities on suspicion of drug dealing or of not
carrying the identity documents that are obligatory in Spain.

The report was rejected by Spanish officials. Ignacio GilLazaro, a congressman
from the ruling Popular Party, said, "The police and Civil Guard confront
immigration in a deeply humanitarian way."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              435 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 19, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brain Drain In Technology Found Useful For Both Sides

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 18


Hong Lu, born in Taiwan, raised in Japan, educated at Berkeley and made wealthy
in Silicon Valley, founded a company several years ago to sell
telecommunications equipment in mainland China. His intention was to take
advantage of his multicultural expertise, aim at a growing market and,
incidentally, spread the entrepreneurial culture in Asia.

He did. He gave his employees in China stock options.

"At the beginning, people were very suspicious," said Mr. Lu, a co-founder of
UTStarcom, a company with its headquarters in Alameda, Calif., and its
operations in Beijing. "They said, 'Don't give me paper, give me money.' After
we went public, they said, 'Don't give me raises, give me more options.' "

A survey to be published Friday suggests that it is common for immigrants who
have become a staple of Silicon Valley's growth to export their experience --
and Northern California's entrepreneurial culture -- back to their homelands.

The survey, paid for by the Public Policy Institute of California, a nonprofit
private group that studies issues affecting Californians, and undertaken by a
professor at the University of California at Berkeley, found that immigrant
entrepreneurs and professionals, in particular from China and India,
increasingly are meeting with government officials and consulting with companies
in their native countries. The survey found that 18 percent of the immigrants
surveyed had invested in their own start-ups or in venture funds in their
homelands.

The survey seeks to illuminate the complex labor ties and economic relationship
between Silicon Valley and East Asia -- a relationship that has sometimes been
criticized as disproportionately benefiting the United States. Some economists,
industry analysts and foreign officials have lamented what they call a brain
drain from Asian countries -- with computer programmers and experts flocking to
Silicon Valley for higher pay and a better standard of living.

The Berkeley researcher who conducted the study, AnnaLee Saxenian, a professor
of regional economic development, said the data suggests there is a "brain
circulation."

"Immigrant entrepreneurs are being infected with the Silicon Valley disease,"
she said, referring to the drive to start ventures. "Then they are exporting
it."

The group that Ms. Saxenian focused on in her survey of 2,300 people primarily
consisted of Chinese and Indian immigrants who, she said, had extensive
experience in Silicon Valley and held higher-education degrees. Ms. Saxenian
said that 40 percent of the immigrants surveyed had helped arrange business
contacts in their countries, and 30 percent had met with government officials in
their homelands.

She found that 76 percent of Indian immigrants and 73 percent of Chinese
professionals would consider starting a venture in their countries.

Doug Henton, president of Collaborative Economics, a regional economic strategy
group based in Mountain View, Calif., in Silicon Valley, said the survey
findings jibed with his observations in recent years. He said one common theme
was that Silicon Valley served as the center of research and development and a
business incubation center for start-ups, and that entrepreneurs then sought to
build manufacturing plants in Asia.

Ms. Saxenian has argued that not just manufacturing is being exported, but also
ideas -- specifically a culture of entrepreneurship.

Mr. Lu, of UTStarcom, said the exporting of Silicon Valley culture has been a
byproduct of the growth of his company, which has much of its manufacturing,
research and development and day-to-day operations in mainland China. For
instance, Mr. Lu said that in the mid-1990's, when the company was beginning, he
had to educate employees in China about the start-up mentality, notably that it
was not just desirable, but possible, to take on huge, often state-owned,
competitors.

"Companies like Apple, Palm and other start-ups came from nothing and are
competing," Mr. Lu said. His company has tried to disseminate to its employees
the culture that drove those companies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hong Lu, a technology entrepreneur, encourages Asian start-ups.
(pg. C6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              436 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 24, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

LESSONS;
Achievers and Delinquents Via Melting Pot Recipe

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS


A HISTORIC role of schools has been to "Americanize" immigrants. But sometimes
the more successful immigrant students are the least Americanized. The road to
assimilation may be more convoluted than we suspect.

Here on the east side of New Orleans, adolescents in the Vietnamese refugee
community follow two divergent paths. While most would ordinarily attend Reed
High School, their neighborhood school, the academically motivated ones apply to
an advanced studies program at Abramson High School, not far away. At Abramson,
Vietnamese are one-tenth of the students body but the immigrants shine
academically and have won every valedictorian and salutatorian honor for four
years.

Reed High School has a similar demographic mix of low-income black and
Vietnamese students, but no elite academic program. Many of the school's
Vietnamese adolescents are in gangs, mixed up with drugs and in trouble with the
police. Ethnic conflicts are not a problem; the Vietnamese and black students
get along well, but many of the immigrants adopt the most alienated youths as
role models.

Min Zhou and Carl L. Bankston III are sociologists who have studied this
contrast between Vietnamese achievers, most of whom choose Abramson, and the
delinquents, most of whom are in Reed. Professor Zhou, of the University of
California at Los Angeles, and Professor Bankston, of Tulane University,
conclude that achievers are usually the ones who assimilate slowly to American
culture. Delinquents are those who are quicker to abandon their ethnic heritage.

Young people who do well, the professors say, speak Vietnamese at home and with
each other. They go to church regularly with parents -- some are Buddhist, but
most belong to the Mary Queen of Vietnam Catholic Church. They celebrate ethnic
holidays like Tet, the Vietnamese New Year. Older siblings supervise homework of
the younger ones. The students feel obligated to parents, grandparents and even
unrelatedneighbors.

But delinquent youths are more often embarrassed by their parents' foreign ways,
and avoid speaking Vietnamese. They are more devoted to American youth music and
adopt gang-member or rock-star fashions.

These categories are not rigid -- children from a single family can go different
ways. Yet Anthony G. Tran, a social worker for Catholic Charities in New
Orleans, takes the distinctions seriously. Mr. Tran spends most of his time
mediating between courts, schools and families on behalf of delinquent youth.
But he spends increasing effort trying to preserve Vietnamese culture as a way
to keep students out of trouble.

Now, when judges have offenders report to Mr. Tran after school, he teaches
traditional dragon dance and Vietnamese holiday rituals as well as supervising
sports and homework. He tries to get Americanized youths to study their home
language and attend a Mass where they can worship with their parents in
Vietnamese.

Trinh Vu, this year's salutatorian at Abramson, said her parents and
grandparents encouraged her to succeed. But Trinh said many Vietnamese students
were attracted to gangs because their parents worked such long hours that
children doubted their parents' love, and sought peers' approval instead.

Joseph H. Murry, principal of Abramson, said he expected fewer high achievers as
time passed and ethnic identity waned. Dr. Murry noted that even successful
Vietnamese students now complained more often that their parents did not
understand them. With more time in this country, these achievers become more
Americanized and feel less of a family obligation to excel; unlike before, Dr.
Murry said, some now linger with the less motivated students when the bell
rings, and have to be prodded to come promptly to class.

Adolescent identity confusion can be a crisis for immigrants who are seduced by
music, dating practices and consumer products. Middle-class American students
can limit their involvement in youth culture to pursue scholastic goals that
teachers and parents drilled into them. But when immigrants assimilate too
quickly, gaps between their families and American peers are enormous. The
immigrants can then lose community ties that inhibit delinquency. If these
transitions can be slowed, youths may have a better chance.

In immigrant neighborhoods nationwide, it is uncertain whether schools can
reinforce the kind of cultural identity that Anthony Tran builds with community
and church institutions. But where such institutions cannot do the job, schools
may have to try to fill in.

Educators today debate whether immigrants should be taught in their parents'
language and about their own customs and history. Opponents of these practices
say that native language and bicultural instruction slows assimilation. Perhaps
so, and perhaps slowing it is not so bad.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              437 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 28, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

America's Restive Partners

BYLINE:  By Tony Judt;  Tony Judt is director of the Remarque Institute at New
York University.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1066 words


The news from Europe sounds grim. Synagogues have been fire-bombed; Jews have
been assaulted; one in five French voters chose the far right candidate,
Jean-Marie Le Pen, in the first round of the country's elections. American
observers have wondered whether these events presage a return to the murderous
hatreds and anti-Semitism of Europe's dark past. Are things really that bad?
Maybe not. Above all, they are not that simple.

The ultranationalist, xenophobic right is manifestly on the rise, and not just
in France. In the most recent national elections in Austria and Switzerland,
anti-immigrant parties got 27 percent and 23 percent of the vote, respectively.
In Antwerp, the hypernationalist Vlaams Blok won nearly 40 percent at the last
local elections, in 2000. Last month one in three of the prosperous burghers of
Rotterdam gave Pim Fortuyn, a flamboyant gay populist, their backing: half of
all Dutch voters under 30 support his proposal to ban Muslim immigration and say
they'll vote for him and his party in the country's national elections next
month.

The antiforeigner Danish People's Party won 12 percent of the national vote last
November. Even in Britain, there is similar sentiment. The anti-immigrant,
ultranationalist British National Party scored an unprecedented 14 percent of
the vote in some decaying industrial towns with large Asian populations.

These groups have in common three interlocking obsessions: crime, immigration
and the loss of national "identity." The first issue is real: violent street
crime is on the increase in Europe, and mainstream politicians who ignore it
will be punished by voters. Everywhere the far right blames immigrants for
crime. In France there are some five million Muslims, and they are Mr. Le Pen's
primary target. In the Netherlands there are only 800,000 Muslims (5 percent of
the population), but that is enough for Mr. Fortuyn to write a book called
"Against the Islamization of Our Culture" and declare that his country is
"full." In her best-known campaign poster, Pia Kjaersgaard, the leader of
Denmark's People's Party, showed a pretty little blond child with the caption:
"By the time you retire, Denmark will be a majority-Muslim nation." Yet in
Denmark just 1 person in 15 is of foreign origin and most of these are
thoroughly assimilated.

The extreme right abhors dark people and other newcomers; it always has. But the
common thread in right-wing populism today is something new, what Mr. Le Pen
astutely captures when he appeals to the "little people ruined by
Euro-globalization." Many Europeans today, especially the citizens of small,
unimportant states (the French are an exception here), feel bewildered and lost.
Their countries and their institutions have lost their place in a globalizing
world economy -- and above all in an institutionally homogenized European Union.

Just as Americans would be wrong to project Europe's morbid past onto its
troubled present, so they perhaps take too seriously the rhetoric of European
unity, writing of "the European project," "European attitudes," or even
"European anti-Semitism." Tip O'Neill used to insist that in the United States
all politics is local. In Europe today, all politics is national. Jean-Marie Le
Pen is a French dilemma. There is no such thing as the "European" far right;
there are only the French, Dutch, Danish, Austrian, Italian and other variants.
They share certain dislikes, one of which is the idea of "Europe" itself.
"France" or "Denmark" is a concept with which men and women can identify, for
good and ill, and on whose behalf prejudices and fears may be mobilized.
"Europe" is not.

The emphasis has changed, and the new sources of violence and xenophobia are not
primarily rooted in traditional European anti-Semitism or the dark European
past. Jews have been beaten in recent weeks, and synagogues attacked. But the
perpetrators have often been those same young Muslims -- in France and elsewhere
-- whom the far right itself excoriates. And though Europeans are typically more
sympathetic to the Palestinian cause, to suggest, as some American commentators
have done, that European guilt over the Holocaust is eased by the sight of
Israeli violence -- and that Israel's behavior has released Europe's innate
anti-Semitism -- is to simplify a complex situation. It is also a slander on
people in countries like Sweden or Portugal who quite properly feel no such
guilt.

The extreme right in Europe is nowhere on the verge of power. Mr. Le Pen has no
hope of winning 30 percent of the electorate, much less becoming France's next
president. But the European social crisis of which the far right is a
pathological portent will not disappear, and on this score Americans have
grounds for anxiety. It has for some time now been clear that Europe and America
are drifting apart. On free trade, Iraq, the Middle East, international courts
and many other post-cold war international issues, the Western allies are at
odds. Yet the most important difference of all frequently passes unmentioned.

Europeans today are being forced to weigh the social costs of abandoning the
postwar welfare state. The far right offers one solution -- close the borders
against change and newcomers and confine state-provided social and welfare
services to the "native" community. The left would retain the ideal of the
social democratic state, at the expense of profit and efficiency if need be. And
both sides juxtapose their European understanding of the good society, the
cohesive community, to the American market-driven variant. This widely debated
contrast is the common, binding thread at the heart of European
anti-Americanism, and it is set to grow, not diminish.

In these circumstances it is reasonable to be anxious about the future of the
Western alliance. In the arrogance of power, officials in Washington have taken
to describing the Europeans as "our fair-weather friends," whose sensibilities
can safely be ignored. The assumption is that the Europeans are bound to follow
the American lead -- how else could it be? But this is imprudent. Fair-weather
or not, the Europeans are our closest friends. But many Europeans see the world
very differently, and it is a dangerous illusion to suppose that the logic of
globalization must needs bring us together. Recent events in Europe suggest that
the opposite may be happening. And that would be grim news indeed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              438 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration's Effects

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:

Mariano Rajoy, Spain's interior minister, was quoted in "Domino Effect? New Gain
for Far Right in Europe" (news analysis, April 23) as saying, "I have been
saying for a long time that immigration is an important problem that must be
tackled not just by Spain, but by all of Europe."

Immigration is also an important problem in the United States. Mr.

Rajoy said the rise of the extreme right wing "is not good news for the
stability of democratic systems." Unfortunately, countries that claim to have
democratic systems repeatedly ignore the will of the people.

Many immigrants are good and talented individuals. But the adverse effects of
mass immigration to Europe and the United States are factual and need to be
addressed urgently and in a sensitive manner.

YEH LING-LING
Oakland, Calif., April 24, 2002

The writer is executive director of the Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable
America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              439 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 1, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bias Incidents Against Muslims Are Soaring, Islamic Council Says

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30


The Council on American-Islamic Relations said today that bias incidents against
Muslims soared nationwide after Sept. 11, with two-thirds of the incidents
reported in the last year occurring less than six months after the terrorist
attacks.

Even the more than 500 cases of discrimination and attacks unrelated to the
terrorist attacks constituted a 43 percent increase over the preceding year,
when 366 were filed, said an annual survey that the council released today.

One-fourth of the complaints involved ethnic and religious profiling at airports
and workplaces, and nearly 20 percent involved government agencies, including
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the F.B.I. and local law enforcement
authorities, the report said.

The council pointed to civil rights abuses against Muslims that it considered
results of government policies, including the detention of more than 1,000
people and the questioning of thousands of others, the closing of Muslim relief
agencies and charities and raids on Muslim-owned houses and businesses.

Though their number in the United States has generally been estimated to be as
high as six million, Muslims tend to be more loosely organized than people in
some other major religions and do not often speak with a unified national voice,
advocates say. Groups like the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the
Muslim Public Affairs Council say they are trying to bring people together to
protest what they describe as a pattern of discrimination against Muslims since
Sept. 11.

Since the government began investigating the attacks, hundreds of Mideastern and
South Asian immigrants have been detained on charges of immigration violations.
Others have been questioned and released. Congress passed legislation in October
that gives the attorney general latitude in detaining foreigners deemed to be
security threats.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              440 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 5, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

ON THE CONTRARY;
In Long Run, Residential Real Estate May Beat Stocks

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST;  Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business
wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 731 words


FOR all our diversity, most American investors share a common financial
religion. We believe in stocks for the long run. We've taken to heart historical
data showing that, over a great many years, stocks outperform other investments
and beat inflation by several percentage points.

But in investing, heresy can also pay, and I think that residential real estate
will pay best in the next decade or two. Sure, home values have risen
considerably, but they've done so for reasons that will continue to power prices
upward for years. Eventually, home prices may fall, but America is unlikely to
produce enough housing to meet all the demand. Housing continues to be
tax-advantaged, and unlike stocks it can be safely leveraged with the cheapest
possible capital, thanks to low mortgage rates. Housing markets, moreover, are
much less efficient than the stock market, so buyers can probably get good deals
if they try.

Perhaps the biggest factor that will drive housing prices upward is immigration.
The influx of immigrants is not likely to be stopped anytime soon because there
are too many reasons for it to continue, including low native birth rates, the
aging of the population and the lobbying of businesses hungry for cheap and
technically trained labor. In the decades ahead, immigrants will account for
most of the population growth and they will drive up demand for housing. Albert
Saiz, an immigrant from Spain who just received a Ph.D. in economics from
Harvard, has examined the effects of immigrants on rental housing in the United
States. His unpublished study found that for each 1 percent of a city's
population that consists of newly arrived immigrants, rents can be expected to
rise 1.5 percent.

Another factor will be the anti-sprawl backlash that limits residential
development. Developers are running into increasing resistance in communities
around the country, often in the form of zoning laws requiring large lot sizes,
which reduce the number of new homes it is possible to build. That keeps
existing homes expensive.

There is every sign that our love of second homes will persist and even deepen.
Second-home sales have soared in recent years, with an estimated 415,000 homes
sold in 2000, up from 296,000 in 1995. Lenders have dropped the more onerous
requirements they once imposed on buyers in this category. People with expensive
first homes have the equity to buy a second home, and for many Americans,
retirement beckons. But many of the places they will want to retire to are
either fully developed or increasingly subject to building restrictions (that is
why they're still so nice, after all). In desirable coastal communities like
Cape Cod, higher prices are the only possible outcome. Experience so far in
Florida and Colorado, two popular states for affluent retirees, bears out this
prediction. I would expect a similar phenomenon in college communities like
Charlottesville, Va., which are attractive to affluent retirees.

Dennis R. Capozza, a finance professor at the University of Michigan Business
School in Ann Arbor, said the relationship of rents to prices in a community can
tell you a lot about whether to anticipate rising home prices. He says a low
rent-to-price ratio implies appreciation ahead, whereas a high ratio of rents to
prices would mean a better income investment. Since rising land values account
for most or all of the capital gain on a residential property, single-family
houses appreciate most. Condos appreciate less but offer the best income payout.

This sort of thing matters because taxes are a big reason for investing in
residential real estate. For starters, the government lets you deduct from your
income the interest on up to $1 million in mortgage debt every year on two homes
for your own use. Buy an income property and everything associated with it is
deductible, including an annual depreciation charge.

There are downsides. Being a landlord is a pain, and since land is the main
thing that appreciates, you might consider buying vacant lots if you don't mind
forgoing the income and tying up your capital. Nor is real estate all that
liquid, although technology will eventually help streamline the medieval
paperwork associated with buying and selling. If it all seems like too much
trouble, you can always buy real estate on Wall Street. People do it every day
by buying stock in a real estate investment trust.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (James Yang)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              441 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials to Speed Start of New Student Visa Tracking System

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 10


Facing growing evidence of fraud in student visas and disarray in the nation's
immigration service since Sept. 11, Bush administration officials said today
that they were hastening the start-up of a vast computerized system for tracking
foreign students attending thousands of educational institutions.

The system, known as the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, or
Sevis, will require institutions to report to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service the addresses of foreign students, their majors and whether they leave
school or are expelled.

Taken with other recently announced changes in the rules for vetting and
obtaining student visas, the new system is expected to tighten controls on more
than one million foreign students attending educational institutions in the
United States. The system was also designed as a possible model for monitoring
other classes of foreign visitors.

"For too long, our student visa system has been a slow, antiquated, paper-driven
reporting system incapable of ensuring that those who enter the United States as
students are in fact attending our educational institutions," Attorney General
John Ashcroft said at a news conference here.

Through the new system, Mr. Ashcroft added, "the American people will gain a
measure of assurance that students visiting our country are who they purport to
be."

Mr. Ashcroft said that the immigration agency would have the system operating by
July 1 and that educational institutions would have until Jan. 30 to enter their
data on foreign students, under a proposed rule that will be published in The
Federal Register.

Congress, in approving $36.8 million last December to build the computer system,
gave the I.N.S. until January 2003 to have it up and running.

While colleges and universities have long been required to collect information
on foreign students, the government asked them in 1988 to stop forwarding the
information to the immigration service, saying the agency could not cope with
the paperwork.

Congress ordered the agency to computerize the collection of data on foreign
students in 1996, in response to the first World Trade Center bombing, in 1993.

The immigration service has come under severe criticism since Sept. 11,
particularly for its handling of student visas.

At least one Sept. 11 hijacker, Hani Hanjour, entered the country on a student
visa, while other hijackers studied at flight schools in the United States
despite the lack of student visas.

Agency officials were further mortified when two of the hijackers were granted
their student visas to attend flight schools six months after ramming jetliners
into the trade center.

This week the authorities revealed a nationwide scam run by Middle Eastern
students in which stand-ins took English proficiency exams so foreign visitors
could fraudulently extend their student visas.

Higher-education officials said they were taken aback by the administration's
announcement today, because it set the deadline for delivering the information
to the new computer system without saying just when the technical specifications
for working with it would be available.

While Sevis allows smaller institutions to enter data on students individually,
the larger colleges and universities have the option of entering hundreds of
profiles in a single run. But the software for working with the new system
cannot be designed until the immigration agency releases specifications for it,
higher-education officials said.

"Schools cannot comply with a regulation that doesn't exist yet," said Victor
Johnson, associate executive director for public policy at the Association of
International Educators. "The arbitrary setting of a reporting deadline, without
regard to when the agency that is demanding the reporting is going to make the
specifications available, is troublesome."

Terry Hartle, vice president of the American Council on Education, which
represents 1,800 colleges and universities, estimated there were 150 American
institutions of higher education that have more than 1,000 foreign students in
attendance.

"The issue here is not that colleges don't want to do it, but it's an enormous
task to organize technically," Mr. Hartle said.

Some saw a public relations exercise in the unusually high-profile announcement
by a cabinet member of a proposed rule change, of which hundreds are published
each day.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              442 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Astoria Journal;
Yes, They're Hookahs, And No, It's Tobacco

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 793 words


Queens is a fragrant place, and aromas drift through its many immigrant
neighborhoods -- curry in Jackson Heights, jerk chicken in Jamaica, fish sauce
and roasted chestnuts in Flushing.

Take a whiff of Steinway Street in Astoria these days and the scent is
unmistakably North African. At night, the air is filled with smoke that smells
like candy, escaping through the windows and doors of the growing number of
sheesha cafes, where tobacco, dipped in molasses, blended with apple shavings or
soaked in rose oil burns in water pipes as tall as the tables.

The tobacco, known as sheesha, is served with fresh juices, strong teas and
coffees, rice pudding, ice cream sundaes and waffles. It is carefully tended by
waiters who mill about the brightly lit parlors with bits of hot charcoal that,
once placed in the pipe, keep the tobacco burning. Alcohol is not served.

The customers, mostly men, order their tobacco by flavor -- regular (molasses),
apple (the most popular kind), watermelon, mint, rose, grape, even cappuccino.
They usually pay about $4 for a full pipe's worth and a plastic mouthpiece to
fit onto the hose of the pipe. And while they smoke, they play dominoes, chess,
backgammon or cards, watch Arabic-language television on big screens, talk,
debate, rest and think.

The pipe itself has many names -- among them hookah, nargile and hubbly bubbly
-- depending on where it is smoked. In Astoria, where sheesha cafe proprietors
are typically Egyptian, the pipe is known as a hookah, as it is in Cairo and
Alexandria, the home cities of the entrepreneurs along Steinway Street.

It is clear from the sheesha situation in Astoria that the ancient hookah, which
is believed to have first appeared centuries ago in India, carved out of
coconut, is a bit of a craze. The cafes stay open as late as 5 a.m. drawing
Egyptians, Algerians, Tunisians and others -- including the merely curious.

The other night around 10 p.m., a limousine driver and a social worker, Egyptian
immigrants who have known each other for years and often meet for a smoke and a
chess game, sat for several hours at the Egyptian Cafe, one of the newer hookah
cafes. The driver, Ashraf Yacout, is strictly a molasses man, he said, while his
friend, Ahmed Fathi, favors the apple flavor.

"It's like cigarettes," said Mr. Yacout, who stops at the cafe nightly on his
way home. "Some like Camel, some like Marlboro."

Until their chess pieces arrived, the friends did not say much as they smoked,
slowly and methodically.

While some may fill their pipes with other things in private places, illicit
substances are not permitted in the sheesha cafes. (On one of the several new
Web sites cropping up to tell the world about the hookah and to sell pipes, a
fan writes of sheesha: "Remember. . . . It's not contraband. It's culture! So
live a little.")

The tobacco is placed in the bowl of the pipe and then usually covered with a
piece of aluminum foil with holes poked in it. The holes allow the sheesha to be
lit by the charcoal placed on top of the foil, and the foil acts as a screen to
keep ashes from mixing with the tobacco.

The cafes keep a supply of pipes on hand -- there are more than 50 at the
Egyptian Cafe -- and grocery stores along Steinway Street sell hoses for hookah
smokers who like to bring their own rather than use the sometimes-worn-out hoses
provided by the cafes. The base of the pipe is usually made of brass or clay and
holds water that bubbles as the smoke is drawn.

Since Ali El Sayed, who calls himself the godfather of the sheesha cafes in New
York City, opened a hookah place on Steinway Street 14 years ago, five others
have opened on one stretch of Steinway Street, near 25th Avenue, several of them
in the last few years. Mr. Sayed, who is from Alexandria and runs a tiny but
popular restaurant called the Kabab Cafe across the street from a crowded
sheesha cafe, stopped selling smoke a decade ago, after deciding that tobacco
and genuine eating do not mix, he said.

After giving a brief history of the hookah, Mr. Sayed, who keeps his own pipe in
a corner of his restaurant and lights up whenever business dies down, explained
that the sheesha experience is about communal ritual, not addiction.

Across the Arab world and beyond, sheesha has made something of a comeback in
the last decade, after a long decline that began with the advent of the
cigarette. People rarely smoke the pipes at home, and because of the size of the
hookah, usually about three feet high, sheesha is not a pastime to be enjoyed on
the run.

"It's not a lonely tool," Mr. Sayed said. "Sheesha is a social tool."

With the dinner crowd fading the other night, Mr. Sayed went to his kitchen to
fetch some hot charcoal, loaded the bits into his pipe and sat down. "Let's
smoke," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashraf Yacout, at left, and his friend Ahmed Fathi smoke sheesha
tobacco in water pipes at the Egyptian Cafe in Astoria, Queens. Mr. Yacout likes
the molasses flavor, while his friend prefers the apple variety. (Barbara Alper
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              443 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: IMMIGRATION;
Inquiry Finds 'Widespread Failure' at I.N.S. in Handling of Hijackers' Student
Visas

BYLINE:  By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20


The Immigration and Naturalization Service mishandled paperwork pertaining to
some of the Sept. 11 hijackers partly because of "a widespread failure by many
individuals" in the agency, a Justice Department inquiry concluded today.

The inquiry did not find that the immigration inspectors who admitted the
terrorists into the United States violated I.N.S. policies and practices, and it
did not speculate that the Sept. 11 attacks might have been averted. It did find
that well before Sept. 11 the agency was lax in scrutinizing foreigners entering
the United States to become students.

The agency issued a statement that said, in part, "As we have said many times
before, there was no intelligence information available at the time of their
admission that these men were terrorists or a threat to the United States."

The inquiry, conducted by the office of Glenn A. Fine, the Justice Department's
inspector general, said the problems predated Sept. 11.

"The I.N.S.'s foreign student program historically has been dysfunctional, and
the I.N.S. has acknowledged for several years that it does not know how many
foreign students are in the United States," the inquiry determined. One reason
for the lapses is that the data the agency does have is "riddled with
inaccuracies," Mr. Fine's inquiry concluded.

It has been known for months that at least one Sept. 11 hijacker entered the
country on a student visa, while other hijackers studied at flight schools in
the United States despite the lack of student visas.

Immigration agency officials were mortified in March when the agency's
contractor mailed notices to a flight school that two of its students had been
granted their student visas. The two had flown jetliners into the World Trade
Center six months earlier. The agency had actually granted the visas weeks
before Sept. 11, but no one at the I.N.S. thought to intercept the belated
paperwork.

That bureaucratic blunder was one reason Mr. Fine undertook his investigation,
just one facet of the second-guessings that have arisen over the Sept. 11
attacks, seeking to discover whether there were enough clues beforehand to stop
them.

The inspector general's report offers 24 recommendations to address problems in
the agency. The report is posted on the Justice Department's Web site,
www.usdoj.gov, and can be found by looking up the inspector general's office in
the index.

The Bush administration has said it was speeding up the start of a vast
computerized system for tracking foreign students in the United States. The
system, known as the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, or Sevis,
will require institutions to report to the immigration agency the addresses of
foreign students, their majors and whether they leave school or are expelled. It
is supposed to be ready in January.

"The I.N.S.'s current paper-based tracking system is inefficient, inaccurate and
unreliable," Mr. Fine said in a statement accompanying a 188-page report. "But
Sevis alone will not solve the problems of the I.N.S.'s tracking of foreign
students."

In its response, the immigration agency said that it had already begun to
address some of the criticisms and that it was confident the Sevis network would
be ready on time.

Among other things, the report urged better training for inspectors, clearer
regulations and a better understanding of regulations.

"We found that I.N.S. managers, supervisors and inspectors believed incorrectly
that they have broad discretion to admit aliens who do not have the required
passport and visa," the report said. "In fact, the law and I.N.S. policy limit
the circumstances in which an alien who lacks the proper passport or visa can be
admitted with a waiver to 'unforeseen emergencies.' "

Before Sept. 11, the report said, a prevailing attitude "was that students were
not a concern or a significant risk worthy of special scrutiny."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn A. Fine, the inspector general of the Justice Department.
(Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              444 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: DETAINEES;
U.S. Defends the Withholding Of Jailed Immigrants' Names

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J., May 20


Justice Department lawyers, defending the federal government's refusal to
identify the 1,200 foreign Muslims arrested after Sept. 11, said today that
public disclosure would undermine counterterrorism efforts and put the detainees
at risk of attack from angry Americans as well as terrorists.

Appearing before the Appellate Division of State Superior Court, the government
lawyers insisted that national security interests outweighed any public right to
know who is being kept in its jails, why and for how long.

"This is not secrecy for secrecy's sake," said Robert D. McCallum Jr., the
assistant attorney general in charge of the department's civil division.

He added that revealing the names of detainees, even those cleared by
investigators of involvement with terrorism, might open them to attack by
American "vigilantes" or allow terrorists to piece together details of the
government's counterterrorism efforts.

The arguments were the latest in a series of attempts by the Bush administration
to justify its assertion of sweeping powers to hold secret immigration hearings,
conceal the identities of foreign detainees and imprison people as material
witnesses, all in the name of fighting terrorism.

In every case heard in the last few months, federal and state district judges in
New York, New Jersey and Michigan have ruled against the government and in favor
of disclosure.

The hearing today stemmed from a lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties
Union of New Jersey. It argued that information about federal detainees held in
two county jails must be provided to the public under the state's freedom of
information laws.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, an arm of the Justice Department,
rents jail space in New Jersey, as it does in many states. The largest group of
Sept. 11 detainees were housed in jails in Passaic County and Hudson County.

Judge Arthur N. D'Italia of State Superior Court in Hudson County ruled in March
that the two jails must turn over the names of the federal detainees they were
holding. The government appealed, and the order was temporarily stayed.

Last month, reacting to a defeat in a similar federal court case, the Justice
Department sought to block such disclosures by means of an emergency rule that
barred employees of state, county or private jails from identifying their
immigrant inmates.

Despite the government's efforts to conceal the identities and whereabouts of
foreigners it has arrested, the names and stories of a number of Middle Eastern
and Pakistani detainees caught up in the sweep have become public in the last
few months.

Some, like Muhammad Mobine, an illegal Pakistani immigrant held in the Krome
Detention Center outside Miami, have called immigrant advocacy groups for help.
Mr. Mobine, who speaks only broken English, said through a translator that he
was arrested just five days after the terrorist attacks.

He said he had been told by F.B.I. agents that he had come under suspicion
because he had applied for a driver's license at the same office, and on the
same day, where one of the hijackers picked up a license. "I don't know
anything," Mr. Mobine said, in a telephone call from jail last month. "I don't
see a judge. I just want to go home."

In another case, the name of a Turkish immigrant, Mustafa Camci, became public
only this month, seven months after his arrest. The disclosure came when a
federal judge in Wilmington, Del., ruled that law enforcement agents had
conducted an illegal search of Mr. Camci's apartment when they arrested him
Sept. 20 after coming to look for one of his roommates.

Justice Department officials have said that most of the people arrested in the
weeks after the terror attacks have since been cleared of any connection to the
attacks or to terror groups.

Most, if not all, of those people were believed to be Muslim men from the Middle
East, Africa and Southeast Asia, who were then detained on charges of
overstaying their visas. Many detainees are only now being processed for
deportation or voluntary departure from the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              445 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 24, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 38 words


An article on Monday about tuberculosis among immigrants in Queens misstated the
number of patients treated last year at the Corona Chest Center. It was 10,000.
(The number of times the patients visited the center was 37,000.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              446 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cultural Divide Over Parental Discipline

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1122 words


When a Chinese immigrant mother beat her 8-year-old son with a broomstick last
month because he had not been doing his homework, she thought she was acting
within the bounds of traditional Chinese disciplinary practices, and did not
realize the trouble she was creating for her family.

The next day, when the boy's reddish welts were seen by his teachers, his school
in Rego Park, Queens, reported the incident to the Administration for Children's
Services, the city agency that protects children. That evening, the police went
to the home in Rego Park, and her three children, 6 to 8, were put in foster
care. The parents were investigated for child abuse.

The teachers did as they were supposed to. Under state law they are obligated to
report signs of physical abuse to Children's Services. But the handling of the
case touched a nerve in immigrant communities, where many parents have
disciplinary ideas that differ from mainstream American views.

"It's something cultural," said David Chen, the executive director of the
Chinese-American Planning Council, a nonprofit organization, referring to
corporal punishment among Chinese immigrants. "The Chinese believe I hit you
because I love you. The harder I hit you, the more I love you."

As more such incidents involving immigrant families occur and are reported in
New York's ethnic media, from Korean newspapers to Spanish TV, advocacy groups
are joining with public schools to educate immigrants about America's child
welfare laws.

Social workers employed by the advocacy groups distribute cautionary tales from
real life intended to make immigrant parents think twice before administering an
imported version of tough love. Parents are warned that Muslim children of
parents accused of abuse can be placed in non-Muslim families, where they may
inadvertently be fed pork. Children from nonreligious families may be taken to
Christian services by their foster families, parents are warned.

When the Coalition for Asian American Children and Families, an advocacy group,
printed a brochure to advise parents on child abuse issues, it addressed
fundamental cultural beliefs.

"In the Chinese culture, the family is most important," it said. "A Chinese
family might expect their child to support the family by doing well in school
and obeying his parents.

"In America, the individual is the most important. American society might
consider the family's discipline to be too strong, especially if the child is
hurt physically or emotionally."

The difficulty in adopting American ways, said Patrick So, a psychotherapist for
the New York City School Board, largely stems from different beliefs about
children.

"In Asia, your child is considered your property and you can do whatever you
want," he said. "In the Western culture, it's not the case."

The clash about how to discipline a child is not new in New York City, where
half of the population are immigrants and their children. Many immigrant parents
have said for years that American parents are too permissive, and that children
are disrespectful to elders.

Half a century ago, principals paddled the disobedient, and other forms of
physical punishment were tolerated. But for more than 30 years, such punishment
has been forbidden in New York schools. The schools have gone from places where
punishment was administered to agencies looking for signs of physical abuse,
sometimes at the hands of parents from cultures with different beliefs about
punishment. The Board of Education would not comment on the Queens case, citing
privacy.

As the emphasis has shifted from keeping families together to removing children
to prevent harm, the conflicts over disciplinary practices have become acute,
said Edward Zigler, a Yale child psychology professor who was a founder of Head
Start.

Well-meaning advice can put parents in a predicament, said social workers, since
many parents know no other way to discipline children.

Mrs. Liu, a Chinatown resident who would give only her last name, said she had
been at a loss after she learned about local laws.

"I don't even dare to touch him," said Mrs. Liu, referring to her mischievous
11-year-old son. "Every time I want to hit him, he threatens to call 911 and
have me arrested."

Joe Semidei, a director of the Committee for Hispanic Children and Families,
said his organization teaches parents other ways to discipline children.

Mr. Semidei said: "Here are some examples: You are not going to the baseball
game this weekend if you do this. But you are going to have a new toy if you do
that. You negotiate with the kids and lay the boundaries. Here in America, you
reinforce good discipline by rewards."

But many immigrant parents see this as bribery, and they cannot understand why
they are not allowed to do what they think is best. They grow more antagonistic
toward the child welfare system when their children encounter negligent foster
parents or guardians.

"Some Chinese kids have become addicted to drugs in foster care, and a few
teenage girls got pregnant." said Xuejun Chi, who was a university professor in
China and is now a social worker at the Y.M.C.A. in Chinatown. "When their
parents eventually get them back, they are so messed up. The parents ask, 'How
has the system cared for them any better than I did?' "

Professor Zigler says corporal punishment can make children abusive or depressed
as adults, but he favors less drastic measures than removing children every time
their parents hit them too hard.

"Taking children away from their homes is itself a form of child abuse," he
said. "We have to give immigrant parents a chance to get acculturated."

When immigrant parents do give up children to foster care, advocacy groups
usually sympathize and find them legal advice to win their children back.

The Chinese American Planning Council, whose family counseling program is
financed by Children's Services, helps families whose children have been put in
foster care reach settlements with the family courts to prevent long separation.
The agreements often include mandatory sessions for parents on raising children.

Billy Wong, a director of the Chinatown Y.M.C.A., offers a class on anger
management for parents.

The Coalition for Asian American Children and Families has started a campaign to
recruit Asian families to provide foster care for Asian children.

Children's Services is willing to become more sensitive to cultural differences.
"Our goal is to keep families together, not to break them up," said Kathleen
Walsh, a spokeswoman. "But our ultimate goal is to keep the children safe." The
agency has formed an immigrant issues group, which meets once every three
months, when officials are briefed by immigrant community leaders about their
groups' cultural practices.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Billy Wong, a director of the Chinatown Y.M.C.A., offers a class
on anger management. He spoke with an immigrant grandmother whose husband has
been overly harsh toward the grandchildren she cares for. (Edwina Pickles for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              447 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

City College Film Festival Peers Inside Many Cultures

BYLINE:  By DINITIA SMITH

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words


There will be no films here about rich-kid romantic angst, no lighthearted
comedies, no expensive visual pyrotechnics and production values.

These are the films of the City College graduate program in media arts
production. And just like the program's students, they are very different from
the film school norm. Ten of the movies will be shown today and tomorrow in the
Cityvisions Film Festival at the Clearview 59th Street Cinema, on 59th Street
between Second and Third Avenues in Manhattan.

Many of the films, which are mostly about a half-hour long, derive from the
immigrant experiences of the filmmakers. In "Sensitive," by Gustavo Mercado, a
35-year-old student born in Uruguay, a woman working in an immigration lawyer's
office in Jackson Heights, Queens, is besieged by desperate people seeking
visas. The woman takes pity on a small Latino boy handing out flyers on the
street during school hours. Then she inadvertently brings about the arrest and
deportation of the boy's mother, who lacks proper immigration papers.

"I Am," by Yuka Okura, 28, a Japanese student, has the austere elegance of an
Ozu movie. In it a young Japanese-American couple live out their marriage in
parallel silence while the wife obediently attends to her husband's needs. One
day she quietly rebels and forces him to take notice.

"These are stories that want to come out," said David Davidson, who runs the
master's program and directed and produced "Into the Light: The Birth of the
American Film Industry," an Emmy Award-winning 1995 film. "Most of the film
industry is so derivative," he said. "We see the same things again and again.
This program makes the tools of storytelling available to so many people who
would normally be denied them because of the expense."

The City College media arts production program could be one of New York's
best-kept secrets. Tuition for the two-year master's program is $2,175 a
semester for New York State residents and $3,800 for those who live elsewhere.
In contrast, tuition in the graduate program of the Tisch School of the Arts at
New York University, which has one of the nation's most highly praised film
programs, is at least six times as much: $14,621 a semester for a three-year
program. At both institutions, students must also put up some of their own money
for production expenses.

Amo (he uses only one name), 32, a Nigerian-born student in the City College
program who works by day as an admissions counselor for the college, had to come
up with $5,000 for equipment and food for his film crew. Although the college
provides equipment, Amo said he wanted to buy his own because he also earns
money producing wedding videos. His film "Kemi" is a drama about a young
Nigerian woman from a small village who is taken to an American suburb as a baby
sitter for the child of an African man and his African-American wife.

The man rapes the girl, and she is destroyed. She runs away, but is forced to
return. Amo said it was not an uncommon situation among young African women who
come to the United States to work. "Men sleep with the baby sitters," he said.
"She's vulnerable. She has no place to go and nobody to talk to."

The media arts production program has its genesis in City College's original
film studies department, one of the first such departments in the United States,
and in the college's history as a haven for refugees. It can be traced to 1941,
when the experimental filmmaker Hans Richter, who had fled Hitler's Germany,
became director of the college's Institute of Film Techniques.

City College says the institute was the first comprehensive film program in the
country. Initially, its students were members of the military, and others
training for the war effort. After the war ended and Richter returned to Europe,
the film program was split among different departments. In its current
incarnation, the graduate media arts production program began in 1997.

Graduates of the various City College film programs include Julie Dash, who
directed "Daughters of the Dust" (1991), one of the first features by an
African-American woman to be released nationally. Another alumnus, Joseph B.
Vasquez, whose career was cut short when he died of AIDS in 1995, directed the
highly praised "Hangin' With the Homeboys" (1991), which starred John Leguizamo
in a story about four friends from the Bronx.

The aesthetic for most of the student films is determined by economic necessity.
Some of the films are shot in synchronized sound, that is, with the sound
recorded simultaneously. But this technique is quite expensive, so they are
notably lacking in dialogue. Typically, with synchronized sound, "if you have a
sound problem, a noise in the background, you have to rerecord and reshoot," Mr.
Mercado, the director of "Sensitive," said.

The films have a visual density, since much of their meaning depends on the
photography and subtle changes in the actors' expressions. The college has
up-to-date 16-millimeter cameras and digital editing equipment, which are
available to students.

The program has benefited greatly from digital technology. "You can shoot
digital video for pennies on the dollar, compared to 16-millimeter film," Mr.
Davidson said, "which helps our documentary students immensely, because of the
amount of footage they have to shoot." Most of the documentaries, like "La Lucha
Se Hace" ("The Struggle Is Made"), by Deanna Davis, are shot directly on digital
video. Ms. Davis describes her film, about Mexican wrestling, as a metaphor for
power relations in Mexican society. In Spanish with English subtitles, it is
sprinkled with quotations from the French literary theorist Roland Barthes.

Most of the narrative projects are shot on 16-millimeter film, which offers
superior image quality, rather than on video. Such movies are also inherently
less costly because they are planned in advance in a script. The finished films
are then transferred to video, which is digitized, saving further expense. (It
is cheaper to edit the film after it has been transferred to video.) The program
does not require students to pay the extra laboratory cost of having their final
prints on film.

For almost all the students, producing films has involved financial sacrifice.
Norma Castillo, 40, has taken out loans and sold her house in Nicaragua to make
"Zumbi." This film is about a 60-year-old former prostitute in Managua, who
witnesses a murder that awakens memories of her own journey from the countryside
to the city. It is set against a background of four decades of political
turmoil. "She travels to the city in order to survive," Ms. Castillo said. "But
the city defeats her."

Proceeds from the Cityvisions Film Festival's $5 admission charge will go to the
graduate scholarship fund of the media arts production program. The films will
be shown tonight and tomorrow night from 6 to 10; the information number is
(212) 650-7235. Peter Bogdanovich, the director most recently of "The Cat's
Meow," is to be the keynote speaker tonight.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Gustavo Mercado, Deanna Davis, Yuka Okura, Amo and
Norma Castillo, students in City College's graduate program in media arts
production. Their movies will be shown tonight and tomorrow in the Cityvisions
Film Festival. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. E4); Gustavo Mercado's
"Sensitive," top, about illegal aliens; Norma Castillo's "Zumbi," about a
Nicaraguan prostitute. (pg. E1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              448 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 31, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Direction for the F.B.I.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 115 words


To the Editor:

The F.B.I. should not be taking the brunt of criticism over Sept. 11 (front
page, May 30). It's the Immigration and Naturalization Service that erred, and
is at the root of the problem.

If the agency had done its job, this tragedy might not have happened.

We should deport all illegal immigrants, who are breaking the law by being here,
make checking out visaholders and their whereabouts a priority, and put a brake
on legal immigration for a few years.

This would give us as a country a chance to come up with a better way of
tracking visitors.

In a perfect situation, the F.B.I. could help the immigration service make this
a priority.

J. WEST
Arlington, Va., May 30, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              449 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 1, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Distant Drums of War;
In Queens, Indians and Pakistanis Live in Harmony

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 899 words


The magazines and newspapers for sale on the streets of Jackson Heights, Queens,
deliver the latest news from India and Pakistan with photographs of missiles and
headlines like "War Clouds," "Retaliation" and "Armageddon?"

Yet as the Indian and Pakistani armies fired machines guns across their frontier
in Kashmir the other day, immigrants from both countries who work at a jewelry
shop on 74th Street were having a late lunch together in the store. Around the
corner, Indians were selling luggage to Pakistanis, Pakistanis were buying gold
necklaces from Indians, and people from both nations were buying toiletries at
the Duane Reade drugstore.

Nearby, at Public School 69, classmates from countries that have been enemies
since 1947 were zipping their knapsacks and lining up for dismissal, and a few
blocks away, the movie theater was selling tickets to Indians and Pakistanis for
the 8 p.m. showing of a Hindi-language love story.

More than 200,000 Pakistani and Indian immigrants live in New York City,
according to the latest census figures. And if the everyday rhythm of life on
74th Street, in the commercial center of the city's growing South Asian
population, tells the tale of coexistence, theirs is a peaceful one that, for
now, seems almost untouched by the crisis.

"If you live with the people from other countries, you will know their
feelings," said Killol Butala, an immigrant from Gujarat, India, a state near
the border with Pakistan, and an owner of the Butala Emporium on 74th Street.

Since Britain carved its Indian empire in 1947 into Pakistan, a Muslim nation,
and the largely Hindu India, the two countries have fought three wars, two of
them over Kashmir, a region that both claim. Rising tensions in recent months
over Kashmir have pushed the two countries, both with nuclear capabilities, to
the brink of another war.

And there is worry, if not division, on 74th Street. There are longer lines to
buy prepaid telephone cards to call home, cards that are sold on virtually every
corner in Jackson Heights, designed with scenes from various regions and saying
things like "Hello Pakistan!" and "India Express." There are lingering
conversations about the conflict and concrete fears about the safety of
relatives in India and Pakistan.

"Everybody is upset," said Shahid Taj, an immigrant from Pakistan who lives in
Sunnyside, Queens, next door to Indian immigrants, and who was buying a gold
bracelet for his 1-year-old daughter at the Pakistan Chamak Boutique on 74th
Street.

Tucked under his arm was The Pakistani Post, an Urdu-language newspaper that on
Wednesday featured three pictures of a missile able to carry a nuclear warhead
that Pakistan had test-fired the day before.

"They are neighbors," Mr. Taj said. "They should live like brothers."

A majority of Indians -- and Indian immigrants in the city -- are Hindu,
although there are Muslim Indians who worship alongside Pakistanis in mosques
here, as well as Christian Indians. Pakistanis are generally Muslim.

The official language of Pakistan is Urdu, which is virtually the same in spoken
language as Hindi, the main language of India, allowing the two groups to
communicate easily. The written versions of Hindi and Urdu, however, are based
on different alphabets.

While Hindus and Muslims in India and Pakistan are killing each other, here
their differences seem eclipsed by the shared experiences of being an immigrant
in New York City. They are South Asians in a foreign country, "Desi," as many in
the younger generations say, using a Hindi word that means "from my country" to
refer to Indians, Pakistanis, Bangladeshis and others from the Indian
subcontinent.

"In America, we don't look so much at the differences," said JT Hemrajani, a
college student who helps his parents, Indian immigrants, run the Little India
Emporium on 37th Avenue, selling suitcases, perfume and other items. "It's a
tense situation over there, but here it is really fine. We are all bonded."

Even the local police precinct sounds Pollyannaish about the neighborhood.

"We've never had any problems between Indians and Pakistanis," said Police
Officer Colleen West, who has worked at the 115th Precinct station house on
Northern Boulevard at 92nd Street for 14 years. "This is a big melting pot, this
community. We have all nationalities and religions, customs, beliefs. And we
even have the second-largest gay and lesbian community. And we never have any
kind of problems. Everyone lives quite happily here."

Two Bangladeshi immigrants shopping for luggage for a trip to Florida agreed,
but added that they were feeling concerned about the latest conflict between
India and Pakistan, given the proximity of Bangladesh to India.

"We are very afraid, very nervous," said Mohammed Sharif, who lives in Woodside.
"If they fire, they will destroy everything. We'll be affected, too."

Qazi Hussein, an immigrant from Lahore, Pakistan, who opened the Pakistan Chamak
Boutique last year, eats lunch with his Indian employees at a table in the back
and sells Saris and gold jewelry, said he was worried about his family in
Lahore. He is losing patience, he said, with political leaders who seem unable
to defuse the crisis.

"Look at us," Mr. Hussein said, gesturing toward the street. "We work together
-- Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims. We eat together. We have no problems. This
Kashmiri cause, the time is over. The problem must be solved."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigrants from India and Pakistan work and live together
peacefully in Queens.; At a jewelry store on 74th Street in Jackson Heights,
Queens, Pakistanis and Indians share lunch, but thoughts of trouble brewing in
their homelands are constant. From left, Afsheen Masood, Nimisha Patel, Mohammad
Katel and Qazi Hussain. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg.
B1); Prepaid telephone cards are sold in stores throughout Jackson Heights,
enabling immigrants to call relatives and friends in Pakistan and India.
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              450 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: THE DETAINEES;
Cost of Vigilance: This Broken Home

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1304 words


Christine Shahab, a Long Island wife and mother with a toddler and a job and a
three-bedroom house, spends a lot of time these days in county jails in New
Jersey.

Tuesdays, it's off to Hudson County to see her mother-in-law. Sundays, she
drives to Sussex County to see her husband. She is seeking permission to visit
her father-in-law, who is in yet a third New Jersey jail. All this while trying
to hold together the business she owns with her husband and ministering to the
fears of their 2 1/2-year-old daughter.

Her family has been scattered like this for nearly three months, ever since
immigration agents pounded on the Shahabs' doors in Lindenhurst, N.Y., and
charged her husband and his parents with violating an old deportation order.

Recalling that chaotic morning, the 24-year-old Mrs. Shahab says she staved off
panic with the thought that it was all a big mistake. After all, she told
herself, her husband, Naim, though born in Afghanistan, had lived in the United
States for 16 years, since arriving with his mother and father.

Moreover, when she married Mr. Shahab five years ago, they presented themselves
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service so he could apply for permanent
residency; the application was pending when he was seized. Indeed, just three
weeks before his arrest, she says, Mr. Shahab received a new work permit from
the immigration service. "Even the agents kept saying to me that it's probably a
mix-up," Mrs. Shahab said.

But it turned out not to be. Her in-laws had ignored a court order to return to
Afghanistan after their 1986 application for political asylum was denied. So, in
keeping with its post-Sept. 11 focus on finding illegal immigrants from Muslim
nations, the government was intent on executing that old deportation order on
the parents and on Naim, now 27 and married to an American native who grew up in
a Roman Catholic household on Long Island.

The I.N.S. says that since February, when the Justice Department ordered a
roundup of people from Muslim countries who had remained in the United States
despite court mandates to leave, agents have arrested 578 foreigners against
whom deportation orders were outstanding.

The "absconder apprehension initiative," as the government called it, was meant
to support the investigation of terrorism by providing a new pool of potential
informers and suspects for the F.B.I. to interview.

As outlined by officials, the operation was to be sharply focused on people who
might have useful information about terrorism. So of 320,000 foreigners believed
to be still in the country after evading deportation orders, agents were
instructed to find the estimated 6,000 from nations where terrorists of Al Qaeda
were thought to be present. Of that group, essentially all Muslims, agents were
told to focus first on the 1,000 people believed to be convicted felons.

The outcome has proved much more scattershot. Unlike most of the 1,200 people
arrested just after the terror attacks -- single men picked up on the basis of
investigative leads -- the absconders include people with established community
roots: the neighborhood grocer, families with schoolchildren, and, as with Naim
Shahab, the spouses or parents of American citizens.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has described the absconder initiative as an
overdue effort to enforce immigration law against people who simply have no
right to be in the country. "We know," said Dan Nelson, a department spokesman,
"that these people have already been through the legal process and were ordered
deported and flouted it. There is a rule-of-law issue here."

As for the focus on Arabs and Muslims, the department defended it with a warning
in January that "terrorist attacks by Al Qaeda within the United States are a
continuing threat to Americans."

"We're trying to exercise judgment," Mr. Nelson said last week, "in terms of who
we're looking for first."

The Justice Department refused to comment further on the program. An official,
who insisted on anonymity, declined to say how many of those arrested so far
were convicted criminals or what specific information the detainees had
provided, but added, "The information has been useful to create a larger picture
from many small pieces of information."

While American Muslim and Arab groups have not objected to a crackdown on
absconders in the main, they say singling out Muslims is unwarranted
discrimination. That is a view shared by Thomas Ormsby, Christine Shahab's
father, who is a fierce defender of his Afghan son-in-law.

"We're patriotic people," Mr. Ormsby said, nodding toward his wife, Linda, who
sat with him in their Lindenhurst home. "We were raised to believe in justice,
and I tell you this is a travesty. I understand this is about national security.
But this kid's not a terrorist, and neither are his parents."

Immigrants' advocates worry that the absconder apprehension program amounts to a
backdoor shift in policy on illegal immigrants, who have long counted on
official ambivalence toward their presence in the country.

"They're going after the weakest link right now, the Muslims," said Regis
Fernandez, an immigration lawyer in Newark. "Next they'll go after Hispanics and
Asians."

For the moment, manpower constraints at the immigration service still determine
how much enforcement is done. But reports from immigration lawyers around the
country suggest that it has not been uniform. The treatment after arrest varies
widely, the lawyers say, and not all the Muslims seized are being interviewed.
Even in cases where there has been interrogation, lawyers express doubts about
any usefulness.

Laura Lichter, a Colorado lawyer who represented a Moroccan arrested in Boulder
as an absconder, says that she sat in on his interview with an F.B.I. agent,
who, she says, asked only whether he was a terrorist, whether he knew any
terrorists and whether he knew anyone with anti-American sentiments.

"If that's supposed to keep us safe from terrorists," Ms. Lichter said, "then
God help us."

Ms. Lichter's client was released after a week in detention, when a court
accepted his motion to have his deportation case reopened.

Similarly, immigration officials in Houston recently allowed most members of a
Jordanian family to live in their own home while they try to reverse their old
deportation order. Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, Democrat of Texas, has
said she will fight to get the family legal status to stay.

To Christine Shahab, a frazzled young woman with long hair and a baby face, no
such reprieve seems in sight. Between runs to jail to see her husband and long
days at the car audio shop they opened together, she finds herself thinking of
what life would be like if he was deported to Afghanistan and she followed.

For someone who has spent her life on Long Island, in a pretty town with
bungalows and backyards and American flags on the lawns, it is unimaginable. "I
would follow him there," she said. Then, in the next instant, she wondered, "How
could I live there with my daughter?"

She has known Mr. Shahab since she was 16.

"They were a perfect match," said her mother.

"He's the hardest-working kid I've ever seen," said her father.

After marrying, the family says, the couple went to the immigration service to
apply for Mr. Shahab's permanent residency. Two years later, they were called
for an interview. Mrs. Shahab says she told the officer about the deportation
order. The officer, she says, told her she could still sponsor her husband for
citizenship, and told her how to apply.

"Never for a day did we think there was a problem," Mrs. Shahab said. "We did
everything they told us to do."

Just about every day now, their daughter, Savannah, pulls down their wedding
album from the bedroom dresser. Mrs. Shahab says the little girl speaks to the
photographs: "I miss you, Daddy. Where are you?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christine Shahab's husband was arrested on an old deportation
order, leaving her to care for their daughter. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              451 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: IMMIGRATION;
U.S. Will Seek To Fingerprint Visas' Holders

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 877 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


The Justice Department will propose new regulations this week requiring tens of
thousands of Muslim and Middle Eastern visa holders to register with the
government and be fingerprinted, administration officials said today.

The initiative, the subject of intense debate within the administration, is
designed for "individuals from countries who pose the highest risk to our
security," including most visa holders from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and many
other Muslim nations, officials said. More than 100,000 foreigners, including
students, workers, researchers and tourists, all foreigners from designated
countries who do not hold green cards, would probably be covered by the plan, an
official said.

Antiterrorism teams made up of federal, state and local officers that have been
formed in most larger cities since the Sept. 11 attacks would help immigration
officials register visa holders already living here, using procedures similar to
those employed to find 5,000 mainly Middle Eastern men who were sought for
interviews after the attacks.

New arrivals from the designated countries would be fingerprinted at airports or
seaports and be required to register with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service after 30 days in the country, officials said.

Violators could be fined, refused re-entry into the United States or possibly
deported, officials said.

The plan will be published in the Federal Register. After a comment period, it
will become a Justice Department regulation.

The proposal ignited a raging debate in the Bush administration. White House
officials supported the Justice proposal, but the State Department lodged
objections, fearing diplomatic repercussions with allies in the war on terror,
administration officials said.

A Justice Department spokeswoman, Susan Dryden, declined to comment on the
proposal.

Immigration specialists, meantime, are warning of new backlogs at airports if
already understaffed immigration service inspectors are required to fingerprint
and process a new category of visitors.

But some civil liberties and Arab-American groups expressed outrage at the
proposed requirements, arguing that such a policy was a blatant example of
racial and ethnic profiling.

"What's the logic of this?" said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association. "Anyone who's truly dangerous is not
going to show up to be registered."

James J. Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute, a policy organization,
said the registration plan would be "an overtly discriminatory, inefficient and
ineffective way to deal with the problem."

"This is targeting a group of people, the overwhelming majority of whom are
innocent, but whose lives will be turned upside down," Mr. Zogby added. "The
message it sends is that we're becoming like the Soviet Union, with people
registering at police stations."

The authority for proposing the new registration requirements rests in a
long-dormant provision in the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952,
administration officials said.

A section of that law requires all foreign visa holders to register with the
government if they remain in the United States for 30 days or longer. The law
also required the fingerprinting of virtually all foreigners who were not
permanent residents, except for diplomats.

The law remained on the books, but enforcement fell off in the early 1980's when
the volume of visa holders climbed rapidly and the immigration service's budget
and staffing dropped.

"By the early 1980's, the sheer volume of the effort combined with a lack of
funding resulted in the practice being discontinued," said one administration
official.

In 1979, the same year as the beginning of the Iranian hostage crisis, Iranian
students were required to register with the government. After the attacks last
year, most visa holders from Iran, Iraq, Sudan and Libya were fingerprinted as
they entered the United States.

But the terrorist attacks had given fresh impetus to a much broader program. One
administration official said the new registration proposal, which Justice
officials planned to brief to Congress on Wednesday and announce later this
week, would give the government a leg up on identifying the highest-risk foreign
visitors now living in the United States.

Congress has required that the Immigration and Naturalization Service establish
a system to monitor the entry and departure of all immigrants, beginning in
2003.

But other officials said the contentious proposal broke free from an internal
administration debate only amid the recent recriminations over what intelligence
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Central Intelligence Agency and other
federal agencies possessed before Sept. 11 about the possibilities of a
terrorist attack.

One of the leaders of the interagency discussion on the alien registration
proposal is a conservative University of Missouri at Kansas City law professor,
Kris W. Kobach, officials said.

Although Mr. Kobach, 36, is only a White House fellow on temporary assignment to
the Justice Department, he also played a central role in another contentious
proposal to give state and local police departments the power to track down
illegal immigrants as a new tactic in the global war on terror.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              452 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 6, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: IMMIGRATION;
Ashcroft Proposes Rules for Foreign Visitors

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5


Calling for a new "vital line of defense" against terrorists, Attorney General
John Ashcroft proposed Justice Department regulations today that would require
100,000 foreign students, tourists, researchers and other visitors to register
with the federal government.

Mr. Ashcroft said any foreigner who might pose "a national security concern,"
would be covered by the rules, which would take effect this fall after a public
comment period.

Other government officials said men 18 to 35 years of age from about 20 largely
Muslim and Middle Eastern nations, including important allies like Saudi Arabia
and Egypt, would make up the bulk of those who would be fingerprinted,
photographed and required to fill out a long form. The regulations would not
affect those with green cards.

Foreigners arriving at airports and seaports who fit the profile of potential
terrorists would have their fingerprints matched electronically against federal
databases.

After 30 days in the country, they would have to register with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

The plan will be published in the Federal Register. After a comment period, it
will become a Justice Department regulation.

Mr. Ashcroft said he would call on some 100,000 foreign visa holders already in
the United States who fit the criteria to voluntarily register.

But recognizing that it might be naive to ask terrorists to sign up at their
local immigration office, Mr. Ashcroft called on the nation's 650,000 state and
local police officers to help enforce the regulations.

"In this new war, our enemies' platoons infiltrate our borders quietly, blending
in with visitors and tourists and students and workers," Mr. Ashcroft said.

Earlier this year, Justice Department officials proposed allowing local officers
to make arrests for civil violations of federal immigration law. But many law
enforcement officials objected, saying it would jeopardize their relations with
immigrants and hamper crime-fighting.

Mr. Ashcroft dismissed those fears and said the rules were an important first
step in meeting a Congressionally mandated goal of developing by 2005 a system
that tracks virtually all of the 35 million annual visitors to the United
States.

The immigration service records information on incoming immigrants and foreign
visitors, including temporary workers and students. But the information
collected is minimal -- like name, date of birth, nationality and where they
will be staying -- and inspectors have no way of updating or verifying it.

"Consequently, we've been unable to determine if foreign visitors follow their
stated plans while they are guests in our country, or even if they overstay the
legal limit of their visas," Mr. Ashcroft said.

The rules, the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System, would have
three main components.

Visa holders would be fingerprinted and matched against federal databases as
well as prints of captured Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters.

Mr. Ashcroft said that since the immigration service instituted a new screening
system last fall, 1,400 wanted criminals had been arrested trying to enter the
country.

But the most extensive fingerprint databases are in use at only a handful of
border crossings, and an extensive system at the nation's airports is still
months if not years away, immigration officials said.

The second component would be periodic registration, which many European
countries require of foreigners planning to visit for longer than a month or so,
Mr. Ashcroft said.

The final component, Mr. Ashcroft said, would be tighter exit controls.

Reaction to the proposal was divided largely along partisan lines.

"The attorney general's proposal is a reasonable first step in regaining control
over illegal immigration in the United States, which is currently out of
control," said Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican
who leads the House Judiciary Committee.

But Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat who leads the
immigration subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee, called the
initiative "a troubling and poorly thought out regulation."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Ziglar, the I.N.S. chief, at a news conference
yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              453 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bridging Cultures and Education

BYLINE:  By SAXON HENRY

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS


"I REALLY need somebody's help," said Lucia Quiroga, an immigrant from Paraguay.
She was worried about her teenage daughter, who has made a habit of skipping
school. "When she went to middle school she changed," Ms. Quiroga said. "The
school she goes to is bad. I have a good daughter and I don't want this to
change. I'm so scared, but I go to the school and nobody helps me."

Fighting back tears, Ms. Quiroga told her story at a recent workshop at St.
Bernard's Roman Catholic Church here. Marlene Rubin, Diane Kent and Claudine
Edwards of the American Association of University Women's Equity in Education
Action Group/Westchester Chapter; Isabel Villar, the director of El Centro
Hispano; and Melula Gonzalez, the director of the Pace Centro Hispano Outreach
Program for White Plains High School, listened as Ms. Quiroga explained her
situation. Twelve mothers and three fathers -- all immigrants -- attended the
workshop, hoping to learn how to ensure that their children received the best
education available to them.

Ms. Quiroga's frustrations were directed toward her daughter's teachers , whom
she said would not let her know when her daughter was skipping school. "I go to
the board of education. I go everywhere possible," she said. "I want to make
sure my daughter is in school. I'm so angry because I have to work my job, but I
have to go to school so much."

The workshop was one of four sponsored by the group during the 2001-02 school
year. Two were for students and two for parents, suggested by Ms. Rubin, a
retired White Plains High School English teacher, after she saw the struggles
immigrant students had at school. Because she had contacts at White Plains High
School, the group concentrated efforts there, but plans to expand the program to
another school district in the next school year.

A dozen students learned how to prepare college essays during a fall 2001
workshop, and 15 were tutored for the English Regents exams in April. "We always
envisioned this as a two-part program: helping students with the issues they
bring to us and helping parents to cope with the school system," said Mrs. Kent,
co-chairwoman of the group with Ms. Rubin. She added that many of the parents do
not speak English and are not at ease in American culture.

Most of the parents who attended this session spoke some English. For others,
Mrs. Gonzalez and Ms. Villar translated. Many of the concerns voiced during the
two-hour workshop focused on rebellious teenagers. "I can help my son because
he's in third grade, but I can't help my daughter now; I only went through sixth
grade," said Maria Fernandez, who immigrated to the United States from Spain
eight years ago. "When I try to help her she tells me, 'Because you weren't born
here, you don't know anything.' I would never dream in my life to talk like that
to my parents."

Heads nodded in agreement and other parents began to tell stories about their
children's acculturation and education outdistancing theirs, but Gisela and
Cesar Jumpa, who immigrated from Peru, came with different concerns. They wanted
to talk about the special needs of their 3 1/2-year-old son. "I'm worried
because he does not speak well," Mr. Jumpa said. "I'm working hard as a daddy in
America. How can I help my son to give him a better education?"

The Jumpas' son had been attending prekindergarten at St. John the Evangelist
Roman Catholic Church in White Plains, but the child's pediatrician recommended
that they move him to a special education program at another school. Because the
Jumpas liked their son's school, they weren't sure that moving him would be the
right thing to do.

Those running the workshop seconded the pediatrician's recommendations. Ms.
Rubin also advised Mr. and Mrs. Jumpa to learn to speak English so that they can
be better advocates for their son. She provided them with contact information
for several free programs offering language classes.

The concerns of all of the parents who spoke were addressed, phone numbers were
exchanged and promises of help were made. "This is not a one-time situation,"
Ms. Rubin told the parents as the workshop's end. "This is an open dialogue, and
we are available if you have questions or concerns."

After the workshop, Mrs. Jumpa said, "It scares me, this problem with my son;
but we feel better because we find out the answer."

Ms. Quiroga was also relieved. "I feel so much better because somebody listened
to me," she explained. Ms. Villar said that Ms. Quiroga is planning to move to
White Plains and put her daughter in a different school. "She came into El
Centro Hispano to look at the list of available apartments," said Ms. Villar.
"She feels that if she can move to White Plains, things will be better." Mrs.
Fernandez said she had come "to hear some of the keys to help my children. I
have to send them to a tutor and it's killing me because I cannot help them."

Mrs. Kent said, "There is no difference between these parents wanting the best
for their children and the perspective we have in our culture." Ms. Rubin said
her group hoped to establish a two-year track record and then make the program
available as a pilot program to others.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lucia Quiroga, a Paraguay immigrant, faces Marlene Rubin at a
workshop aimed at helping immigrants aid their children in school. (Richard L.
Harbus for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              454 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fingerprinting: The Mark of 9/11

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 138 words


To the Editor:

Re "Handling Foreign Visitors" (editorial, June 6):

My parents and I emigrated from Germany to the United States in 1939, and as
"enemy aliens" during World War II we were required to register and be
fingerprinted.

We never questioned or resented the effort to keep track of us. A war was in
progress, and the fact that one of the enemies was our former country was, to
us, reason enough to cast suspicion. It did not matter that nearly all German
immigrants were loyal to the United States.

That Muslims are to be singled out for surveillance today is no different from
the situation in World War II. If they truly aspire to be Americans or to
participate in American society, they must support the government and cooperate
in the effort to find any terrorists among them.

CHARLES KLAUS
Kirtland, Ohio, June 6, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Sloan)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              455 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fingerprinting: The Mark of 9/11

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 161 words


To the Editor:

Re "Handling Foreign Visitors" (editorial, June 6):

I was born and grew up in France, where every citizen was fingerprinted.

I was also fingerprinted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service when I
became an American citizen. Fingerprinting does not bear for me the stigma it
does for other Americans. Yet I find ludicrous the idea of fingerprinting
visitors to the United States who carry passports from countries with ties to
international terrorism.

The government should realize that the only person currently indicted for the
Sept. 11 attacks entered America on a French passport. Will Washington next
begin selectively fingerprinting foreigners carrying French, Danish or British
passports whose names sound Arabic?

The government should fingerprint everyone -- visitors as well as American
citizens -- or fingerprint no one. Otherwise, it will open itself to justified
criticism of being racist.

J. PATRICE MARANDEL
Los Angeles, June 6, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              456 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fingerprinting: The Mark of 9/11

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 115 words


To the Editor:

Re "Handling Foreign Visitors" (editorial, June 6):

The activities, whereabouts and associations of some of the terrorists who
carried out the attacks on America were known to our intelligence agencies
before Sept. 11.

The overburdened Immigration and Naturalization Service even issued visas to
some terrorists after they had died. What went wrong? How can we protect
ourselves as a nation? Further erosion of civil rights cannot be the answer.

The problem lies in our bloated, inefficient intelligence and immigration
agencies. The Justice Department's proposal to fingerprint Muslim foreign
nationals insults and dishonors us all.

JEANETTE SPERHAC
New York, June 6, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              457 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fingerprinting: The Mark of 9/11

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 150 words


To the Editor:

Re "Handling Foreign Visitors" (editorial, June 6):

I fail to see how fingerprinting visitors to America is in any way "offensive."

Nor am I opposed to requiring visitors to check in every few months. Illegal
immigration is rampant. These steps may help separate the honest visitors from
those with less than honorable intentions.

When I have traveled overseas, customs and immigration officials have asked my
business and where I will be staying. If asked for fingerprints, I would have
complied; it is their country.

Americans can be fingerprinted when they get a job in certain industries, join
the military or land in jail. I don't see how requiring foreign visitors to give
fingerprints for the privilege of visiting is an undue burden. If they find the
requirement offensive, perhaps they should find other places to visit or attend
school.

STEVEN A. TOLLE
Sacramento, June 6, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              458 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 12, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: THE IMMIGRATION SERVICE;
U.S. Orders Scrutiny of All Yemeni Travelers

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


Federal authorities have ordered special scrutiny of all Yemeni citizens seeking
to enter or leave the United States and are thoroughly inspecting all their
baggage, the Justice Department said tonight.

The order, which applies to immigration and customs agents at all American
border crossings, was the first since the Sept. 11 attacks to target the
citizens of a specific country.

"As part of the government responsible for protecting our borders, we are
sometimes asked to pay attention to travelers of a particular nationality or
background," a Justice Department spokesman said. The spokesman said no Yemenis
had been denied entry or departure as a result of the increased vigilance, which
has been in effect since last Thursday.

CBS News, which first reported the order, said it was the result of a recent
raid on an apartment in an undisclosed location in the Northeast that had been
occupied by Yemenis. The authorities found dozens of thermos bottles, some of
them outfitted with batteries and wire, which appeared to be the materials for
bombs, CBS said.

The Justice Department spokesman confirmed that the order stemmed from the raid,
but he would not provide details.

In a memorandum to agents at all airports, ports and border crossings, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service ordered inspectors to screen and
inventory all baggage in the possession of Yemenis, except for those traveling
on diplomatic passports, the Justice Department said.

It also told inspectors to be on the lookout for thermoses and night vision
goggles, and it warned them not to open the thermoses.

There were 3,083 Yemeni visitors to the United States in fiscal 1999, the year
of the most recent statistics.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              459 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2002 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Prom Night, Lost in Translation;
Teenagers Want to Go, but Immigrant Parents Frown

BYLINE:   By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words


The odds were not in her favor, but Nowrin Khanam, an immigrant from Bangladesh,
believed the prize was worth the effort. So she begged her mother for permission
to go to her senior prom.

It was important to fit in, she said, to spend a magical closing night of high
school with friends. Her pleas did not move her mother, who wondered what people
back home would think if she let her daughter stay out past dark in a place
where boys and girls would dance and, worse, dance together?

"She said, 'Next time,' but how is there going to be a next time?" lamented Miss
Khanam, 18 and heartbroken, after missing her prom last week held by Bryant High
School in Long Island City, Queens. "You only have one senior prom."

Across the country, it is the season of the prom, the best of times and the
worst of times for most teenagers and their parents.

But forget "Pretty in Pink" and all those Hollywood cliches about cheerleaders
and jocks and the life-altering power of a school gym draped in crepe paper.
This is New York City, where nearly half the students in public high schools are
recent immigrants (and nobody parties in the gym). They come from every
continent, with at least as many coming-of-age rituals. Each day of being an
American is an improvisation; each custom calls for examination. Here, even the
choice of prom music -- American R&B, Hindi hip-hop or salsa -- calls for
negotiation among cultures.

Like Miss Khanam, who arrived three years ago, most immigrant teenagers develop
an instinct for unraveling the mysteries of American teenage etiquette, taking
their cues from classmates, movies and television. They soon understand the
weighty significance of the prom.

But a lot of their immigrant parents remain, well, clueless.

Take the case of Zhi-De Deng, a high school senior who moved with his family
from China to the United States seven years ago. His mother is a garment factory
worker and his father is a machinist. Neither speaks English, being preoccupied
with survival and seeing their children succeed academically.

"I think if I were to explain to my parents what the prom is, I'm sure their
reactions would be 'Huh?' because I, much like my parents, was not raised in an
environment where going to parties past midnight is the norm," Mr. Deng said.

He is not going to try to explain it, anyway, because Mr. Deng, a senior at
Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn, professed to have absolutely no
interest in his prom. "I'm not sure either what the prom is," he said. "I'm
thinking: wild party. But that's based on movies, like 'American Pie.' Which I
actually didn't see."

But the Hollywood version of high school does not come close to the complexity
of New York's schools, where national origin can define a clique and a critical
mass of students from one country can operate in their own exclusive social
world.

At several Brooklyn high schools, immigrant teenagers from the former Soviet
Union have sometimes organized their own alternative parties at Russian supper
clubs that students and teachers alike call the Russian prom. Such clannishness
is often evident throughout the school year. At Murrow, students said, some
groups lay claim to territory, with one area of the building known as the
Russian area and another as the Chinese floor.

"Certain intersections of the halls are usually populated by a certain race or
people of the same cultural background," said Svetlana Bezinyan, a Russian-born
senior.

Ms. Bezinyan, who was 9 when she immigrated to the United States, said she
considered herself one of the "more Americanized Russians," but had heard that
other Russian immigrants at school were trying to organize a separate prom this
year too.

She is looking forward to attending the all-school prom later this month and has
already bought a ticket, at $130, and paid $140 for her share of a stretch
limousine to ferry a group of friends to the event.

"I know going into this it's not going to be a prom like in the movies," Ms.
Bezinyan said. "But it's nice to party with everybody. When you're in the city
and everything is so diverse, it's nice to have something that kind of borders
on suburban life."

The cost of a city high school prom -- tickets cost $75 to $150, and clothes and
the obligatory limousine must be paid for -- is enough to deter many struggling
immigrant families. So does the prospect of dating, although many students said
the trend this year was to go with groups of friends rather than with a date.

In recent years, imported popular culture, like the Bollywood films that are
wildly popular with South Asian immigrants, has helped push the boundaries of
acceptable teenage behavior for immigrants.

"I'm stunned when I see Indian films these days," said Annetta Seecharran, the
executive director of the South Asian Youth Action group in Queens. "They're
totally westernized. They totally embrace the idea of dating and partying. It
wasn't anything like that in my day."

Emboldened by those images and the strength of greater numbers, she said,
teenagers from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh seem better able to reconcile
their identities. Many adopt American rituals like the senior prom as their own
cultural right.

"When I immigrated from Guyana in the 1980's, there was a very small South Asian
community," said Ms. Seecharran, 33. "I was embarrassed to be Indian. I wanted
to be Latina so badly. With kids today, it's O.K. for them to be South Asian,
but they also adopt the urban American culture."

Julissa Mejia, who immigrated at 6 from the Dominican Republic, had no trouble
at home about the prom. She said her parents encouraged her to go because they
had such fond memories of their own graduation celebration back home. But many
of her classmates at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx had to invent their
own ways to adapt.

"When you're a teen, you're trying to fit in and that's your main goal," Miss
Mejia said. "I've got friends, like from Bangladesh, whose parents wouldn't
allow them to go. I guess they have these misconceptions about the prom, that
it's just drinking and dancing. So they're going to have a sleepover at
someone's house."

For all the diversity in New York's high schools, the senior prom can still live
up to its image as a magical and equalizing moment.

To Eman Rimawi, a senior at Richmond Hill High School in Queens, the prom was to
be a culmination of childhood dreams. "I've been thinking about the prom since
junior high and I knew exactly what kind of dress I wanted since freshman year,"
Ms. Rimawi said. "I just knew it was going to be a wonderful night."

Her mother, Evonne, is part African-American and part American Indian. Her
father, who died four years ago, was Palestinian. If he were alive, she said, he
would not have permitted her to go to the prom, because he never wanted her to
spend time with boys.

Last week, in her tiny living room, Ms. Rimawi finally put on her sparkly red
prom gown and sat fidgeting in a straight-back chair while her mother stroked
makeup onto her face. Her best friend, Stefanny Moreira, an immigrant from
Ecuador, had carefully arranged herself in a nearby armchair so as not to
wrinkle her long cranberry-red dress.

The stretch Rolls-Royce limousine they had ordered was late, which was just as
well because Ms. Rimawi couldn't decide how to style her hair, and when her date
finally showed up, not a date-date but a friend, his shirt needed ironing. Then
the doorbell rang and everybody started pinning corsages on one another and
taking pictures and it was time to go.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2002



CORRECTION: An article on Thursday about immigrant students who have embraced
the tradition of the high school prom misstated the percentage of public high
school students in New York City who are recent immigrants. It is about 16
percent, not nearly half.




GRAPHIC: Photos: What's a prom without a stretch Rolls-Royce? Below, Stefanny
Moreira, second from left, and Eman Rimawi, center, rode in style. Left, Eman's
mother, Evonne Rimawi, applied her daughter's makeup on prom night. Above,
Eman's nails. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1);
Stefanny Moreira, 17, an immigrant from Ecuador, in her cranberry-red dress,
checks her hair before going out to the prom. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York
Times)(pg. B9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              460 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Appeals Court Upholds Secret Detentions

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 193 words


A New Jersey appeals panel ruled yesterday that two county jails do not have to
reveal the names of immigrants held since Sept. 11 -- a ruling that an expert
said was the first to uphold the federal government's efforts to detain and
process those immigrants secretly.

The three-judge panel in the Appellate Division of State Superior Court
unanimously overruled a March decision by a state judge that ordered the Hudson
County and Passaic County jails to turn over the names of detainees housed under
a contract with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey had sued the jails under the
state's public information law. The Justice Department joined the counties in
fighting the suit. After yesterday's ruling, Assistant Attorney General Robert
D. McCallum Jr. said in a statement that he was pleased and that releasing the
information would undermine the terror investigation.

The A.C.L.U. said it would appeal to the New Jersey Supreme Court.

Lee Gelernt, a lawyer with the A.C.L.U.'s national office in New York, said the
ruling was the first he knew of upholding the secret detentions or hearings.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              461 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
Sometimes, a Green Thumb Trumps a Green Card

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: LOCUST VALLEY, N.Y.


WHAT'S an immigrant to think?

On Sept. 21, Ahmed Alenany, a Brooklyn cabdriver from Egypt, was stopped by the
police for parking illegally. They discovered his visa had expired, and in the
post-Sept. 11 sweep for illegal immigrants, he spent seven months in jail. Mr.
Alenany was understandably surprised that the government would toss him in jail
in a terrorism case, after he had been in the United States without proper
papers for several years.

"I never expected I would have been arrested," he said the other day, now free
from jail but still facing possible removal from the country. "There's something
very funny about immigration."

Funny indeed. If only he had been standing alongside another immigrant, Luis
Mejias, watching in amazement here Wednesday as a contractor who was charged
with stiffing Mr. Mejias and three other day laborers out of $8,360 in pay was
led away in handcuffs. The New York State attorney general had landed with both
feet on the side of the laborers, never mind that they are in this country
illegally.

"It is imperative that we -- community and government leaders -- act now," said
Eliot L. Spitzer, the attorney general, "to give a voice to and protect the
rights of all working men and women."

Mr. Mejias, who came from El Salvador four years ago, was understandably
surprised that the government would help him, a poor immigrant on Long Island
who didn't even have proper papers. "It's a tremendous feeling inside of me that
the laws in North America would support me," he said.

Once merely confused, the government's position on illegal immigrants is now
suffering from multiple personality disorder.

For many years, the government winked as immigrants, many here illegally,
pruned, painted and chauffeured America. As Mr. Spitzer noted, "we pass
immigration laws, but then Congress doesn't fund enforcement because there's a
need for labor."

With no usual suspects to round up after Sept. 11, law enforcement agents
rounded up people they thought might resemble usual suspects. Detaining droves
of Middle Eastern men was a simplistic, if understandable, reaction to the
terror threat. Consider that the most significant recent arrest in this country
was of the accused dirty bomb plotter formerly known as Jose Padilla, born in
Brooklyn and raised in Chicago.

The same day that Mr. Spitzer backed the day laborers, an appellate court in New
Jersey backed the government's argument that releasing the names of immigrants
arrested after Sept. 11 and still being detained could jeopardize the war on
terror. The detainees, mainly Muslims from the Middle East, are accused of
immigration violations.

Selective enforcement? That's not a charge law enforcement officials readily
plead to. But it is hard to deny the obvious.

"To a certain extent," Mr. Spitzer said, "that's what we're seeing."

THE months since Sept. 11 have underscored the basic contract that the United
States has with the illegal work force it maintains. We needed cheap workers.
They need work. We reserve the right to cancel the contract without notice.

The laborers' case, Mr. Spitzer said, is "simple contract enforcement." The men,
who do everything from digging foundations to landscaping, were hired by Richard
Holowchak for about $100 a day. But he stopped paying them, the men said, and a
local pastor, the Rev. Allan Ramirez, alerted Mr. Spitzer's office. Their status
was never an issue. "In the labor context, we do not inquire of people's
immigration status," Mr. Spitzer said.

The experience affirmed the laborers' view of Americans as grateful for
gardeners. "I think they admire us, that we're willing to work so hard," said
Julio Valle. Mr. Mejias even adorns his room with a picture of an American
symbol: the World Trade Center.

"It's so beautiful," he said through a translator. "It's such a shame what
happened."

As chance would have it, Mr. Alenany, the Egyptian driver, also had a picture of
the trade center displayed prominently inside the cab he drove. He had added a
black strip to signify mourning. But when the police stopped him, the picture of
the target of terrorism drew suspicious questions from the officers, Mr. Alenany
said.

Mr. Alenany, an amateur photographer, said the subject of his picture was 26
Federal Plaza. The towers just happened to be in the background. He snapped the
picture because the federal building, which houses the immigration service, has
a special place in his heart.

"I had to go there so many times," he said, "seeking permanent status."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              462 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BRIEFING: A NATION CHALLENGED;
WITHHOLDING DETAINEES' NAMES

BYLINE:  By John Holl

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 119 words


A state appellate court ruled last week that the federal government can keep the
names of detainees being held in custody a secret.

Since Sept. 11 more than 1,100 detainees have been held nationally, many of them
in Hudson and Passaic County jails, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The ruling said that the release of detainees' names
could compromise investigations and public safety. Civil liberties advocates
wanted the names released to monitor detainees' treatment in custody and to
ensure adequate legal representation. A representative of the New Jersey chapter
of the American Civil Liberties Union said the group planned to appeal the
ruling to the State Supreme Court.   John Holl

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              463 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Tied to Bomb Suspect Is Arrested

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15


Federal authorities said today that agents of a terrorism task force in Florida
had detained a man on immigration violations who was believed to be an
acquaintance of Jose Padilla, the American citizen being held in military
detention on suspicion of plotting attacks in the United States.

Dana Perino, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said that Adham A. Hassoun, 40,
was arrested in Miami on Wednesday on charges that he had overstayed his visa.
Mr. Hassoun was being held outside Miami at Krome Detention Center, Ms. Perino
said.

Ms. Perino would not say whether Mr. Hassoun was acquainted with Mr. Padilla.
But a senior law enforcement official confirmed that investigators believe the
two men knew each other in the 90's and had attended a mosque together in Fort
Lauderdale.

The arrest and the suspected links between the men were first reported on
Saturday in The Miami Herald and The Sun-Sentinel of South Florida.

According to The Associated Press, state records show that Mr. Hassoun was
listed as a Florida agent of the Benevolence International Foundation, a Chicago
group that has been accused of financing Al Qaeda terrorists.

Mr. Hassoun was arrested during the week that the Justice Department announced
the May 8 arrest in Chicago of Mr. Padilla, also known as Abdullah al-Muhajir,
an American accused of conspiring to explode a radioactive bomb in the United
States.

In November, Mr. Hassoun told The Herald that he had briefly worked for the
magazine Call of Islam, which is published by the Islamic Youth Movement and
advocates jihad and trains young people in guerrilla warfare, The Associated
Press reported. The magazine has featured exclusive interviews with Osama bin
Laden.

Mr. Hassoun told The Herald that he had no active role in the organization and
that the F.B.I. had interviewed him several times after agents saw his name on
the Islamic Youth Movement Web site.

"They know I'm clean," he was quoted as saying.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              464 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 19, 2002 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

TRACES OF TERROR: DETAINEES;
Appeals Panel Upholds Ruling For Open Court

BYLINE:   By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, June 18


A federal appeals panel refused today to block a judge's order that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service hold open deportation hearings for
so-called special-interest cases involving detainees held after Sept. 11.

The Justice Department had asked the United States Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit to issue a stay on a May 29 order by Judge John W. Bissell of
United States District Court in Newark while the department filed an appeal to
overturn the order itself and keep the hearings secret. But a three-judge panel
from the third circuit upheld last month's order and refused to grant the stay.
Judge Bissell later clarified the order, applying it to special-interest cases
nationwide, not merely in New Jersey.

Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman, said the department had not
decided whether to appeal the panel's denial of the stay to the United States
Supreme Court, which would be that court's first opportunity to address the
government's post-Sept. 11 secrecy policy.

"We're still reviewing our options," Mr. Miller said.

Judge Bissell's order to open the hearings was in response to a lawsuit filed by
the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of two news organizations -- The
New Jersey Law Journal and the North Jersey Media Group, a newspaper publisher
-- seeking access to the hearings. The suit followed a Sept. 21 memo by the
country's chief immigration judge, Michael J. Creppy, at the direction of
Attorney General John Ashcroft, ordering immigration judges to close all
special-interest hearings and withhold related information.

The government has argued that open hearings would jeopardize an investigation
into the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks and other terrorist activity,
and would threaten the detainees' safety. But civil rights advocates say a
blanket secrecy order violates the public's constitutionally guaranteed access
to government proceedings. Judge Bissell noted that the government might still
seek to close individual hearings on a case-by-case basis by demonstrating a
need for secrecy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2002



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a federal
appeals panel's refusal to delay the opening of deportation hearings for
immigrants detained after Sept. 11 misstated the day of the decision. It was
Monday, not Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              465 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 20, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a federal appeals
panel's refusal to delay the opening of deportation hearings for immigrants
detained after Sept. 11 misstated the day of the decision. It was Monday, not
Tuesday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              466 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 23, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Soccer Upset in Korea, 500 Red Shirts in Flushing

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 856 words


If New York's immigrant communities are supposed to be small impressions of the
societies left behind, no one told the Koreans buzzing around Seoul Plaza in
Flushing, Queens, before dawn yesterday. They left instead the huge impression
that the South Korean soccer team was playing its World Cup quarterfinal match
inside the second-floor banquet hall on Northern Boulevard, rather than in
Gwangju, South Korea.

By 2:30 a.m., when the South Korean team took on Spain, the cavernous hall and
its lobby had become filled with 500 fans watching a satellite broadcast of the
match. Almost every one of them wore identical red "Go Korea!" T-shirts.

For nearly three hours, into and past sudden-death overtime, the crowd, composed
mostly of the generation of young Koreans still more familiar with Seoul's Top
40 than with Britney Spears, flirted with delirium.

Forget ESPN and Univision. Sitting trancelike on red fabric chairs or standing
in the hall's window wells, the youthful sea of recent immigrants chanted,
cheered and gasped at the images on the 10-foot-by-20-foot video screen, which
carried a live Korean-language version of the game by TV Korea.

The screen gave the remarkable feeling of being there, in Gwangju World Cup
stadium. When the 42,000 fans in Gwangju broke into the "Korea World Cup" trope,
so did Seoul Plaza, seemingly at equal volume. Chant for chant, scream for
scream, Flushing seemed wed to its spiritual home turf.

"It's very exciting, this atmosphere," said Taeson Song, 21, who immigrated from
Seoul four years ago and is now a mathematics major at State University of New
York at Stonybrook. "This crowd," he gestured, searching for the right phrase in
English before settling for an exponential understatement. "It's better than
watching the game by yourself."

Indeed. In a particularly communal Korean fashion, the banquet hall took on the
feeling of a cozy, if incredibly large, living room. Spanning three generations,
from grandparents draped in "Go Korea!" T-shirts to little ones begging their
distracted mothers for a chair to sleep on, these guests acted like family.
English and German soccer fans would not think of watching their teams play
without a pint of ale or pilsner, but here there was only bottled water and
Korean take-out from the plaza's 24-hour restaurant. And a never-ending chorus
of victory chants, supported by small paper-and-stick banners and an emcee on a
dais underneath the television screen who dutifully led the crowd in chants in
favor of the old country.

"Yes, it's very fun," said Kyung Kwon, 20, another recent arrival from Seoul who
had a temporary tattoo of a soccer ball on her cheek. "I don't like watching
soccer so much, but I came to support Korea."

It was true, soccer connoisseurs the masses here were not.

If Spain shanked a corner kick, Seoul Plaza roared. If South Korea stole the
ball, the hall thundered. If a Korean worked the ball anywhere near the Spanish
goal, there was fist-pumping bedlam.

When slow-motion replays showed a South Korean going down in mock agony after a
light foul, women here covered their mouths and gasped. It was all part of the
giddy anxiety of witnessing your country's unprecedented advance into the
penultimate round of the world's most popular sporting event. Shortly after 5
a.m., Flushing Standard Time, when South Korea's fifth and final
penalty-shooting player scored, improbably sending his team into Tuesday's
semifinal against Germany, Seoul Plaza began to levitate. Or at least it seemed
to.

"Did you hear the sound?" one very happy man, whose wife haplessly tried to
corral his dancing with swats to his head, yelled in English to a non-Korean
visitor. "Did you hear the sound?"

Terence Park, a New Jersey internet entrepreneur and former City Council
candidate, screamed, "This is the first time in Korean history, in 5,000 years,
Korea is in the semifinal!" Never mind that the World Cup started in 1930.

True to the family atmosphere, Chong Min Mun, the chairman of Seoul Plaza and
the organizer of this large ethnic party, invited everyone to the mall's 24-hour
restaurant for free bowls of Korean noodle soup.

"Mr. Mun is so happy, he's treating everybody to noodles," Mr. Park said,
shoveling in a mouthful in the restaurant's upstairs V.I.P. room. "I bet every
Korean restaurant owner is giving people free food right now."

Perhaps, but by 5:30 a.m., Northern Boulevard was clogged with cars stuffed with
Korean immigrants honking horns and waving the South Korean flag. This was not
just the so-called 1.5 generation of young immigrants, but mothers and fathers
and toddlers standing on the corners, waving to the cars and to each other.
Soon, Mr. Mun, a shrewd party planner by any measure, had organized a band of
youths to carry 10-foot-long plastic banners announcing South Korea's victory
onto the street.

"This is unbelievable," said Seung Yong Lee, 25, of Manhattan, observing the
polite pandemonium.

As the impromptu street celebration took form, Mr. Mun was already thinking
ahead. "Now that the American team is out of the World Cup," he said, "we hope
that the American people will pray for us."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The South Korean soccer team's quarterfinal victory over Spain
in the World Cup inspired a jubilant display of Korean pride among fans in
Queens.; At Seoul Plaza in Flushing, Queens, soccer fans matched the enthusiasm
of the spectators who were actually in Gwangju, South Korea. (Photographs by Rob
Schoenbaum for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              467 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants And the Suburbs

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 81 words


To the Editor:

"A Suburb All Grown Up and Paved Over," by David Plotz (Op-Ed, June 19),
maintains that Fairfax County, Va., "is the very model of the benefits of
immigration."

The benefits he describes: up to six cars parked on paved-over yards; climbing
poverty rates; "sprawled suburbs," packed houses of "sisters, husbands and
cousins," and a lost rural character. If those are the benefits of immigration,
what are the disadvantages?

LINDA H. THOM
Coupeville, Wash., June 20, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              468 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants And the Suburbs

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 130 words


To the Editor:

"A Suburb All Grown Up and Paved Over," by David Plotz (Op-Ed, June 19), ignores
the important fact that all property owners -- rich and the not so rich -- are
entitled to protect their investment.

Even more annoying is his callous attitude toward those who object to seeing
their neighborhoods flooded with immigrants expecting American citizens to give
up their culture, and land values, in order to accommodate the new arrivals.

While Mr. Plotz is quick to glorify the area's "ethnic restaurants," many
longtime residents of Fairfax and other communities are finding themselves in
the unenviable position of being the host who has just been asked to leave his
own party.

DAVID A. GORAK
Exec. Dir., Midwest Coalition
to Reduce Immigration
Lombard, Ill., June 20, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              469 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants And the Suburbs

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 213 words


To the Editor:

"A Suburb All Grown Up and Paved Over," by David Plotz (Op-Ed, June 19), was
correct in noting that Fairfax County, Va., is the "very model of the benefits
of immigration," but I disagree that the county is in a "crisis." In 2001, my
agency helped 164 companies that said they would create more than 11,500 jobs
here.

Compare that with tech centers like San Jose, Calif., and Atlanta, which have
been shedding jobs by the tens of thousands.

Also, Mr. Plotz says there is only enough "greenery left for a side salad."
Funny line, but the county has more than 30,000 acres of dedicated parkland,
including a national wildlife refuge established to protect bald eagles and one
of the largest urban marshes on the east coast.

Yes, some homeowners have "asphalted" their lawns so they have a place to put
cars. Putting a halt to this was a legitimate response to keep lawns beautiful
for all our residents. There's nothing wrong with worrying about property
values.

Fairfax County has assimilated thousands of immigrants, built an economic
powerhouse, lowered tax rates, added parkland and maintained a top-flight school
system -- and what is the hot topic? Parking.

GERALD L. GORDON
President, Fairfax County
Economic Development Authority
Vienna, Va., June 20, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              470 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 24, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigrants And the Suburbs

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 116 words


To the Editor:

"A Suburb All Grown Up and Paved Over," by David Plotz (Notes From Tysons
Corner, Op-Ed, June 19), strikes a familiar chord with the residents of suburban
Nassau County, N.Y.

In Syosset, we now welcome immigrant neighbors from Korea, Southeast Asia,
India, Pakistan and Latin America coming from New York City for the same
suburban school district and the green, family-friendly environment that
beckoned us years ago.

We are also dealing with yard-paving and zoning issues that seek to preserve our
green open spaces, but these problems are minor compared with the success story
of a new immigrant generation achieving the American dream.

LAURA SCHULTZ
Syosset, N.Y., June 19, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              471 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Canada Extradites Bomb Suspect for Dutch Trial

BYLINE:  By ROBERT M. FRANK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL, June 27


A Canadian judge has ordered the extradition of an Algerian immigrant to the
Netherlands, where the Rotterdam police have charged him in a plot to blow up
the United States Embassy in Paris.

The immigrant is named Adel Tobbichi in court documents here but Dutch
authorities say his name is Amine Mezbar, of Constantine, Algeria, and that he
used two other aliases, Mathieu Miljadi Prajasemita and J. P. D. Straebler.

According to a Canadian prosecutor, James Brunton, the police discovered several
forgeries during a search of his residence in Montreal, where he arrived in
August 2001 with his wife, Faiza Bennouna. Ms. Bennouna returned to her native
Netherlands three weeks before Mr. Tobbichi's arrest on June 21.

The charges pending in Rotterdam include "preparations for terrorist attacks"
and "membership in a criminal organization." He is also charged with forging
passports and other travel documents, conspiracy to cause an explosion,
conspiracy to murder and possession of firearms.

The thick Dutch affidavit also provides circumstantial evidence linking Mr.
Tobbichi with acetone, sulphuric acid and other bomb-making materials seized by
the police.

It also says that he lived with two others arrested in the plot, Jerome
Courtailler and Abdelghani Rabia.

A search of their residence by the Rotterdam police produced some 60 passports,
as well as videos of Osama bin Laden and information on land mines.

The police in the Netherlands say Mr. Tobbichi's fingerprints were found at the
site. His fingerprints also link him to residential break-ins in the Netherlands
in 1997 and 1999.

The Dutch authorities also supplied wiretap evidence that they say records Mr.
Tobbichi discussing requests for passports, including a complaint about poor
quality. "It is a useless passport," says a person named Ammirouch. "The first
page of the passport has very vague colors, and the last and second-to-last
pages have come off."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              472 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 30, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS;
More Than Ever, Ecuador Is Doing Business Here

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 408 words


Giobhany Pina, a 23-year-old restaurant worker, wanted to surprise his wife in
Cuenca, Ecuador, with a new stove for Mother's Day. So he strolled into the
Roosevelt Avenue showroom of Comandato, a major Ecuadorean appliance chain, and
picked a model he liked. Soon, the $450 stove arrived at his wife's house, and
for the same price he would have paid if he had gone to one of Comandato's 45
stores in Ecuador.

Comandato is one of several Ecuadorean companies that have opened branches or
affiliates on a stretch of Roosevelt Avenue near 81st Street in the last few
years. Immigrants can open a bank account at Banco del Austro, for instance, or
buy prepaid health care for their children back home at Salud S.A.

Foreign companies do open branches in New York's immigrant areas, but they are
often banks offering simple money-wiring services. By contrast, the city's
approximately 150,000 Ecuadoreans can choose from a rich variety of services.

"It institutionalizes the ability to live in two different worlds," said Peggy
Levitt, a sociology professor at Wellesley College. "If you're living here and
furnishing your home down there, that's amazing." Two forces behind the trend
are a growing Ecuadorean population here, and a severe economic crisis at home.

With an account at Banco del Austro, immigrants receive a debit card that can be
used at New York stores and cash machines. Their relatives in Ecuador also get
cards, but with a twist: the account holder can set withdrawal limits for each
person. The service saves account holders from wiring money separately to each
relative, and allows them to lock in savings.

"What motivated us to form the business was that the Ecuadorean could not
administer his money from here because of his undocumented status," said Xavier
Tamariz, general manager of Austro Financial Services. Since Austro opened in
February 2001, about 6,000 immigrants have opened accounts, Mr. Tamariz said.

Immigrants also appreciate that their relatives no longer have to pick up large
sums of money at agencies in Ecuador. "It's much safer if it goes directly into
the bank," said Mr. Pina, who wires $300 to his account every two weeks.

These businesses also give immigrants greater control over their money. The
flier for Salud, the health care company, shows a grinning construction worker
saying: "Now with Salud, I protect my family in Ecuador. Because the well-being
of my family is my peace of mind."   SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Comandato delivers, from Roosevelt Avenue to South America.
(Angel Franco/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              473 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 30, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

ENVIRONMENT;
Unfortunately, These Maples Are Spreading

BYLINE:  By JEREMY PEARCE

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: MADISON


UNWATCHED and not matching any known profile, the intruder slipped across
borders, and then traveled stealthily and widely until it disrupted the lives of
the natives around it.

The Norway maple, a bossy immigrant with a Scandinavian accent, has flourished
so extensively that it now threatens New Jersey's prized sugar maples and the
forest-floor plants that depend on them. While still widely used as a suburban
shade tree, the Norway maple is making the most-wanted lists of scientists who
would like to see it rooted out.

"It makes me sad," said Dr. Sara Webb, a Drew University ecologist who studies
the Norway maple. "If people had a clear idea they were about to wipe out native
flora, they wouldn't plant it in the first place. When our canopy of beeches and
oaks finally falls down, will they be replaced by other beeches and oaks? We are
no longer sure."

Muddling matters, the Norway maple closely resembles the sugar maple -- so
closely that botanists are sometimes fooled -- but seems to outcompete it in
nearly every way. The foreign species puts out leaves earlier, holds them longer
and also carpets lawns and sidewalks with legions of seeds. It can be most
easily identified by its leaves' shiny undersurface and the oozing of a milky
sap when its stems are broken.

The hunt has begun to remove the intruder trees from Central Park in New York
City, Fairmount Park in Philadelphia and countless smaller preserves, even as
the trees thrive in New Jersey's yards.

At the Reeves-Reed Arboretum in Summit, however, an intense campaign has been
under way for five years to clear a relatively small area of the Norway maples.
Carolyn Lydon, a staff horticulturist, said the best results demanded ripping
out smaller trees and girdling large ones -- cutting through bark to halt a
tree's growth and hasten its end.

"It's to the point that it's a constant battle," Ms. Lydon said. "Norway maples
have probably been our biggest problem."

Some naturalists suggest that the invasion has been so pervasive because state
environmental and agricultural officials have disagreed about solutions. New
Jersey does not yet have an official list of plant, insect and animal invaders,
nor the regulations to ban sales of Norway maples or any other tree species.
Other states -- Wisconsin, Minnesota and Illinois among them -- have assembled
such lists as a first step toward warning the public about potential damages to
local ecosystems.

"All that's green is not gold," said William Young, president of the Native
Plant Society of New Jersey, which has compiled its own list of 40 invasive
species. "Our state doesn't even have a formal strategy. This is an issue that
we are going to have to face because, between deer and exotic species, we are
not regenerating our native forest."

As state regulations stand, agriculture officials can declare quarantines to ban
species during emergencies, although the measures usually concern food crops
like potatoes that might affect public health, and not trees, vines or garden
ornamentals. No regulations exist to govern species that may be causing lasting
damage to forests and meadows.

For the past two years, the state Department of Agriculture has been overseeing
a panel, including farmers, nursery owners and state and federal officials, to
anticipate natural threats in everything from Africanized bees to zebra mussels
and to create a management plan intended to repel invaders.

"At this point, we haven't established a list, as many other states have done,"
said Robert J. Balaam, director of the agriculture department's division of
plant industry and a member of the task force. "We've been a little slower, but
we are also more focused. Other states have been quick to develop lists without
determining the criteria of invasive species."

The main impediment to controlling the Norway maple is that nurseries sell a lot
of them as shade trees.

"In some cases the nursery industry says, 'This is going to kill us, in terms of
economics,' " Mr. Balaam said.

Still, some nursery owners say they are voluntarily avoiding the Norway maple
and pointing clients toward oaks, beeches, sugar maples and other native trees.
The New Jersey Nursery and Landscape Association has informed its members about
invasive species and counseled against using some -- but not all -- of them. "An
invasive plant in the right setting is not invasive," said Carl R. Nordstrom,
the association's executive director.

Tom Taylor, garden designer with Caliper Farms Nursery in Belle Mead, said the
case of the Norway maple had led to a more thorough consideration of plants used
in the industry. "Every new plant that comes around, you have to look at," he
said. "No one wants to put something in the ground that is going to become a
problem later on."

Scientists say the chief danger from the Norway maple (Acer platanoides) is the
suffocating effect it has on the plants below. The tree's leafy canopy is so
luxuriant that it tends to block light from the forest floor. On a back lot of
Drew University's campus in Madison, a stand of mature Norway maples towers over
a single species prevailing underneath, a rich crop of Norway seedlings that
don't seem to mind the lack of light.

"The clearest impact we see in the forest is a suppression of diversity," said
Dr. Webb, who uses the lot as an outdoor laboratory. "We see the population of
native plants just gets smaller and more fragmented."

Attacking the trees with herbicides could affect the aquifer beneath the campus,
so the solution has been to cut the trees down and later prune new growth
springing from the stumps.

In Philadelphia, where it is believed that Norway maples were first imported to
the New World in the 1700's, scientists are also trying to cope. The trees are
hardy and seem to have adapted effortlessly from their original Eurasian range,
which runs from Norway to northern Iran. An experiment in progress in Fairmount
Park suggests that once maples are removed, native plants do indeed come back.
But because the park is bordered by residences landscaped with Norway maples,
progress might be short-lived.

"Removal is going to hinge on public education," said Dr. Margot Bram, an
ecologist with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. "When people
dump their lawn clippings on the park's edges, they're actually introducing
maple seeds right back in."

A result, said Dr. Bram, can be an influx of other exotic and invasive species
that exploit the Norway maple's new niche: Japanese honeysuckle, garlic mustard,
Oriental bittersweet and kudzu, which advance to further challenge native
species.

Sugar farmers in pursuit of maple syrup have found the Norway maples wanting. In
fact, the lone situation in which scientists say the tree might be tolerable
would be on city streets, surrounded by concrete and an environment where their
fertile seeds are rendered harmless on sidewalks. As for the suburbs, the
intruders are shouldering the natives aside.

"Norway maples are still in the books," said Christine Padula, nursery manager
at Mendham Garden Center. "We can order them. They're always available. But I
wouldn't exactly recommend them."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The underside of the Norway maple leaf, top, is glossier than
the sugar maple's.; Sara Webb, a Drew University ecologist, uses the campus as a
laboratory to study Norway maples' effects on their surroundings. (Photographs
by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              474 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 28, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Killed and 14 Hurt In Ride in Texas Heat

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: ANNA, Tex., July 27


Two bodies were found today in a tractor-trailer that had apparently hauled
dozens of illegal immigrants for several hours in 90-degree heat, the police
said. Several people were hospitalized for heat-related injuries.

The rig was found parked at a truck stop in this small town about 40 miles north
of Dallas.

"Once our troopers got there we found two apparent illegal aliens confirmed
dead," said Tom Vinger, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Public Safety.
"Whether the driver knew they were there is still under investigation."

The authorities said they believed that the same rig had earlier pulled into a
Dallas truck stop, where witnesses reported seeing about 40 people pour out,
some begging for water.

A Dallas police sergeant, Steve Winters, said about 20 people were taken into
custody.

Officials said the truck, carrying medical supplies, had traveled to Dallas from
El Paso, on the Mexican border. The trip is about a 10-hour drive. At least 14
people were hospitalized, five in critical condition. It was about 96 degrees
this afternoon in the Dallas area.

"It was a heartbreaking thing to see people suffering like that," said Willie
Warren, an employee at the Dallas truck stop. "They were gagging for breath.
Some of them couldn't even walk."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              475 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 18, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The World;
A Road That Death Often Travels

BYLINE:  By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 241 words


OF all the smuggling routes chosen by the world's poor to reach the world's
rich, this one through the Sahara must surely be the most dangerous. Every year,
tens of thousands of desperate illegal migrants from West and Central Africa
cross the world's greatest desert to seek work in North Africa, Europe or the
Upper West Side.

Some don't even know there is a desert to cross until they reach the Sahara's
edge, in Agadez, in northern Niger.

Many die along the way. African smugglers load the migrants, like cattle, on old
trucks, carrying them from Agadez to Dirkou, a lawless border town some 350
miles northeast. There the migrants wait until Libyan smugglers transport them
farther into the Sahara. Trucks break down. Remains are found, sometimes years
later.

If they make it through the Sahara, most of them work for a while in Libya,
guests of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, who fancies himself a pan-Africanist. After
saving up some money, many of the migrants take another smuggling route to
Sicily, and from there to mainland Italy, or northern Europe, or eventually to
America.

Some unlucky ones get into trouble in Libya, where officials this month packed
two planes with illegal migrants and flew them to Burkina Faso in West Africa.
But they weren't so unlucky after all. In the past, Libyan officials have loaded
illegals onto trucks and dropped them on the border between Libya and Niger, in
the middle of the Sahara.   NORIMITSU ONISHI

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The trucks also make several stops so that the Muslim
passengers can pray.; The trucks sometimes stop for repairs. The drivers often
hire soldiers with guns to police the riders, who wear the kind of clothing
needed to shield themselves from the sun.; A young woman from Nigeria on the
desert ride.; Migrants on the road between Agadez, Niger, and Dirkou, Libya, in
March. Crossing the desert takes about a week. When they arrive in Libya,
without visas, they are smuggled through the country by Libyan drivers.; A man
from Niger riding through the Sahara on the second of the two trucks.
(Photographs by SVEN TORFINN/Panos Pictures)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              476 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Midwest: Michigan: Rethinking Driver's Licenses

BYLINE:  By Elizabeth Stanton (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 94 words


Secretary of State Candice Miller said she would ask the Legislature to prohibit
applicants who are in the country illegally from obtaining Michigan driver's
licenses.

The secretary of state currently issues licenses to all applicants who qualify,
regardless of their legal status, under an opinion issued by the the state
attorney general in 1995. Concern over the licensing process was prompted after
several people who had been issued Michigan driver's licenses were questioned by
the authorities after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.   Elizabeth Stanton (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              477 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 23, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Imagine;
A World of Weary Travelers

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 249 words


The bodies turn up everywhere. Perhaps 400 people killed when a ship capsized
off Indonesia in October. More than 200 Haitians feared drowned by Hurricane
Michelle in November.

Eight dead in a sealed freight container in Ireland this month. About 200
corpses a year along Mexico's southern border, prey to accidents or bandits.

And then there are the bodies just languishing in detention: 2,500 in the
Australian desert, thousands in Vanatu who couldn't even reach Australia. Nearly
as many in France near the Channel tunnel, which was closed when dozens broke in
to walk to England.

Tides of migration flow around the world and "new and reliable data on the
magnitude of trafficking and irregular migration is hard to come by," said the
International Organization for Migration in Geneva. But it estimates that, if
one counts everyone from vegetable-truck stowaways to students taking a year
abroad, 3 percent of the world is on the move every year. As borders fall and as
pockets of war and drought make people more desperate, the tides surge.

Well before the Taliban fell, many of those in the pipeline were Afghans. Kurds
from Iran, Iraq and Turkey, Romanians and Moldovans, Indians, Bangladeshis,
Chinese, Mexicans and others swell their ranks. For the unscrupulous, they
represent easy money. Whether it's $1,000 for a guided walk across the
Texas-Mexico border or $20,000 to leave China hoping for Britain, smuggling
people is a business worth $8 billion or more.
   DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the beach at Algeciras, Spain, the body of an illgal
immigrant from Morrocco. (Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              478 of 478 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 14, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Under the Counter, Grocer Provided Workers

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1043 words

DATELINE: SHELBYVILLE, Tenn., Jan. 9


Like thousands of his countrymen, Amador Anchondo-Rascon sneaked across the
border from Mexico and then followed his dreams. He started at age 20 in the
fields of Florida and became a legal resident by marrying an American. He moved
to the hill country of McMinnville, Tenn., after hearing that the nurseries
there paid well, and then headed west to Shelbyville, where a Tyson Foods
chicken-processing plant paid even better.

Mr. Anchondo-Rascon found only a handful of other Mexicans in Shelbyville when
he arrived in 1989, but that changed in a hurry thanks to the jobs at Tyson.
Over the next decade, the Latino population grew to 2,343 from 92, or 15 percent
of the town's residents, and by 1995 Mr. Anchondo-Rascon had concluded that
there was enough of a market to open a small grocery. He named it Los Tres
Hermanos, after his three sons, and before long he became prosperous.

But it was not only chile ancho and corn flour that he sold. This week, he
pleaded guilty in federal court in Chattanooga to acting as a middleman in what
prosecutors call a seven-year conspiracy to supply Tyson with more than 2,000
illegal workers and to provide the new arrivals with counterfeit work documents.

Mr. Anchondo-Rascon's story is a familiar one to those who have studied the
enormous influx of Hispanics in recent years to small towns in the South and
Midwest. With serviceable English and regular contact with Shelbyville's
Mexicans, Mr. Anchondo-Rascon became something of a fixer, a multipurpose
intermediary between the Hispanic and Anglo communities. He helped white farmers
and plant managers find workers. He took Mexicans to used-car dealers and
landlords and vouched for their reliability. He was an informal interpreter for
the police and the courts. He bought a maroon truck and had the tailgate painted
with a mural depicting him as the Jefe de Jefes, the boss of bosses. For a man
with a third-grade education who was one of 11 children of a poor farmer, it was
quite a success story.

"I felt proud because I felt there was a future for my sons," Mr.
Anchondo-Rascon, 43, said in a jailhouse interview this week. "I don't want them
to be like I was."

His stature made him a perfect go-between for Tyson plant managers searching for
low-wage workers. But in the end, the police and prosecutors say, Tyson's
reliance on him led to the indictment in December of the company and six
managers in the largest immigrant-smuggling case against an American
corporation.

While not speaking extensively about the case, Tyson lawyers have said that
corporate officials of the company, which is based in Springdale, Ark., were
unaware of any recruitment of illegal immigrants and that the six charged
employees had been dismissed or placed on leave. If found guilty, the company
could face sanctions and heavy fines.

Prosecutors intend for the Tyson case to send a message. John P. MacCoon, an
assistant United States attorney in Chattanooga, said, "It's much more
productive, we think, to attack the source, the companies that recruit these
illegals, than to pursue endless prosecutions of illegals at the border."

The case against Tyson began when Mr. Anchondo-Rascon's counterfeiting caught
the attention of two Shelbyville police officers, William H. Logue Jr. and
Donald O. Barber. In the mid-1990's, they became suspicious of the immigration
and Social Security cards that Hispanics often handed over when stopped for
traffic and other offenses. They confiscated so many fakes that Mr. Barber put
them in plastic sleeves, like so many baseball cards.

"We'd say, 'Where did you get these?' " Officer Logue said. "Some wouldn't say
anything. But some would say 'Los Tres Hermanos' and then wouldn't say anything
more."

In 1997, an undercover agent with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
bought two sets of Mr. Anchondo-Rascon's counterfeit cards for $150 each. The
two worked together to bring illegal immigrants to Tennessee and provide them
with phony papers, the government says. In one early conversation, the
indictment says, Mr. Anchondo-Rascon told the agent that he was well connected
with his former employers at Tyson and that they routinely solicited him to
supply illegal immigrants.

The indictment outlines conversations among Tyson officials, Mr. Anchondo-Rascon
and the undercover agent. In 1998, it says, the men met at Tyson's Shelbyville
plant with managers, who said they needed 2,000 illegal Guatemalans. In most
cited transactions, the smugglers were paid $100 or $200 per worker; corporate
checks were used to pay the men "recruitment fees."

Prosecutors have not said how many immigrants Mr. Anchondo-Rascon procured, how
he got them, where he got his counterfeit cards and how much he made from
smuggling. But Mr. Anchondo-Rascon and his second wife, Robertina, were doing
well. They own two stores, five houses and several cars, she said.

Now, in exchange for a reduction in the charges against him, Mr. Anchondo-Rascon
is cooperating with prosecutors. After pleading guilty on Monday, he spent
nearly three hours this week briefing Mr. MacCoon of the United States
attorney's office and others, and he is likely to testify.

Mr. Anchondo-Rascon, who in 2000 was arrested in another immigrant-smuggling
case and has spent nearly two years in jail, faces a maximum sentence of five
years and, because he did not became a naturalized citizen, could be deported.
His sentencing, scheduled for May 20, is likely to reflect his level of
cooperation.

Mr. Anchondo-Rascon's lawyer, Michael Friedman, suggested that his client's
story was so damaging to Tyson that it might encourage the company to enter a
plea agreement.

Born in Chihuahua, Mr. Anchondo-Rascon is a soft-spoken man with silver caps on
two teeth. In the interview, during which Mr. Friedman did not let him discuss
the case, he said he first crossed into the United States illegally in 1979 in a
10-day journey by foot, was quickly captured and sent home, and then soon made
the trek again, successfully.

He said his store became a gathering place for Shelbyville's Hispanics in the
late 1990's. They came to buy pinatas and coconut juice and compact discs of
Latin recording artists.

"They went there because they felt they were in Mexico again," Mr.
Anchondo-Rascon said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amador Anchondo-Rascon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company
