
                               1 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words


An article on Wednesday about the use of an Arizona immigration law by the
sheriff in Maricopa County to arrest both illegal immigrants and people who
smuggle them misstated the role of Peter Schey of the Center for Human Rights
and Constitutional Law and the nature of a legal challenge he filed. Although he
was called into the case by the Mexican Consulate, he represents one defendant;
he was not hired by the consulate to represent several. He has challenged the
validity of the county's arrest policy, not the law itself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Rockies: Colorado: Governor Signs Immigration Law

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 76 words


Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, signed into law immigration measures that could
force one million people now receiving state and federal benefits to prove that
they are American citizens. The main bill requires government agencies to verify
that adults over 18 are entitled to the benefits. Applicants must provide secure
photo identification, sign an affidavit that they are citizens, and get their
applications approved through a federal verification system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seller of Fake Licenses Is Sentenced to 5 1/2 Years

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


A member of the Hells Angels motorcycle club was sentenced to 5 1/2 years in
prison Tuesday for helping illegal immigrants obtain fake driver's licenses at
the State Department of Motor Vehicles office in Bridgeport between 2000 and
2004.

The club member, Richard Tramontano Jr., 42, of New Haven, was sentenced to 12
years, to be suspended after 5 1/2 years served, followed by three years
probation, by Judge Roland Fasano in Fairfield County Superior Court in
Bridgeport. Mr. Tramontano pleaded guilty to charges of racketeering, bribery,
forgery, carrying an illegal firearm and violation of probation.

John H. Malone, the assistant state's attorney who prosecuted the case, said Mr.
Tramontano was a conduit for people looking to buy fraudulent driver's licenses
and state identification cards and a group of employees at the Bridgeport office
who have since been charged with selling them.

Two D.M.V. employees have pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.

Mr. Malone said Mr. Tramontano asked for between $1,000 and $3,000 for a fake
license or ID card and then used part of that money to bribe D.M.V. employees.

Mr. Malone said he was looking into reports of fraudulent licenses being sold at
other D.M.V. offices. He would not say where.

''This is going to be a long-term investigation,'' he said.

JEFF HOLTZ

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Blame and Uncertainty as Immigration Deal Fails

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and RACHEL L. SWARNS; Steven Greenhouse contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 7


The Senate's effort to pass immigration legislation collapsed on Friday, and
lawmakers went home for a two-week recess to face voters who are as deeply and
passionately divided on the issue as Congress has proven to be.

Less than 24 hours after senators celebrated a bipartisan agreement that would
have given most illegal immigrants a chance to become citizens, created a
temporary guest worker program to meet the needs of business and tightened
border security, the deal was derailed by a feud that erupted largely along
partisan lines.

Creators of the proposal said they had the support of as many as 70 senators.
But they were unable or unwilling to resolve secondary disputes over amendments
and other technical issues, and the measure was yanked from the floor.

It is not clear when or whether the Senate may try again.

The politics of the issue are in flux, reflecting the crosscurrents created by
conservatives who want to see the border sealed off to illegal immigration,
employers who say they need workers, and the growing assertiveness of Hispanic
immigrants and their supporters. Both parties seem uncertain as to whether they
are better off agreeing to a compromise or blocking one, and they seem still to
be gauging public opinion.

Immigrants are planning marches and rallies around the country on Monday in
favor of granting legal status to illegal workers already in the United States.
Business groups will be lobbying lawmakers in coming weeks to keep seeking an
agreement, while conservatives will be sending letters, faxes and e-mail to urge
Congress not to agree to anything that smacks of amnesty.

''I think politics got in front of policy on this issue,'' said Senator Edward
M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and one of those who helped broker the
bipartisan plan.

The failure to achieve an agreement that had appeared so close led to
recriminations over who was at fault. Senior Democrats blamed Senator Bill Frist
of Tennessee, the majority leader, as striking a deal and then being unable to
bring along key Republicans.

But Republicans accused Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, of
erecting procedural obstacles to deny Senate Republicans a victory on the
politically charged subject in an election year.

''There has been one huge problem, and that problem has been created by the
Democratic leadership,'' said Mr. Frist, referring to the fight over how many
amendments could be considered.

Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who supports the compromise, said
the issue was so complex that it would take awhile for the nation and for
lawmakers to come to terms with it.

''It encompasses societal, economic, security issues that are all woven into one
fabric,'' Mr. Hagel said of the immigration issue. ''And when you have that much
at stake for a nation, it's going to take some time to work through it.''

After unsuccessful efforts to shut off debate on competing immigration
proposals, the legislation was sent back to the Judiciary Committee. Senator
Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and chairman of the panel, said he
would immediately return to work on border policy when senators get back after
the two-week break.

But advocates for immigrants worried that time might actually hurt the coalition
as lawmakers weighed their constituents' reaction to the details of the deal.

''I'm a little worried that the political momentum that we witnessed this week
may dissipate somewhat,'' said Frank Sharry, the executive director of the
National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group.

With other business like annual spending bills starting to pile up and the
election drawing closer, some lawmakers said the best opportunity to approve
legislation and start negotiations with the House might have been lost.

''You would have to say it is going to be a tough uphill battle now with the
limited time we have remaining in the session,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin
of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate.

A senior House Republican engaged on immigration issues, Representative Lamar
Smith of Texas, also suggested that Congress might want to slow down.

''My sense is we would do better waiting until after the election,'' Mr. Smith
said. ''It is a sensitive, emotional, complex issue that should not be rushed
through when we don't understand the consequences and implications.''

But Mr. Sharry said that the rallies around the country, depending upon their
size, might also help galvanize support for the agreement. And Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said he hoped that the marchers and
supporters of immigrant rights would put pressure on the Democratic leadership,
which he accused of blocking the deal.

Members of a core group of lawmakers who raced over the past two weeks to find a
compromise that could pass before Congress broke for recess said they were
troubled by the outcome, which Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of
Connecticut, attributed to trivial issues and partisan backbiting.

''It is very disappointing, but I share the determination of my colleague to go
forward,'' Mr. Lieberman said.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, an author of the bipartisan
proposal, said the issue ''will not go away.'' He said he held Mr. Reid
responsible for the legislative breakdown because of his refusal to allow
conservative opponents of the legislation an opportunity to offer amendments.

Mr. McCain and Mr. Kennedy said they had the votes to defeat those proposals and
protect the underlying bill.

Republicans also criticized the Democratic leadership as insisting on assurances
that members of the Judiciary Committee would serve as negotiators with the
House over a final bill before the Senate even gave initial approval to the
measure.

Mr. Reid and his allies said they objected to the amendments because they saw
them as an effort to derail the compromise with a back-door filibuster. And they
said they wanted guarantees on negotiations with the House because the Senate
had been bullied by Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of
Wisconsin and the Judiciary Committee chairman, in recent talks and they wanted
to avoid a repeat occurrence.

Mr. Reid said the major problem, however, was that Mr. Frist had shaken hands on
the bipartisan compromise and then was unable to quiet Republican critics who
were trying to gum up the works.

''I reached out to Bill Frist, but his position on this matter simply defies
logic,'' said Mr. Reid, who denied he was trying to kill the measure for
political gain. ''He needed the courage to move forward.''

Angry over the Democratic refusal to consider amendments, Republicans easily
defeated an effort to end debate on the bipartisan proposal, 60 to 38, 22 votes
short of the 60 required. Democrats then blocked the effort to end debate on a
Republican measure that focused on border controls and law enforcement on a
62-to-36 vote.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John McCain, left, with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who
read yesterday from ''A Nation of Immigrants'' after immigration legislation
stalled in the Senate. Both senators had worked on the measure. (Photo by
Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A9)
 Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, second from left, huddled with
Republican colleagues on immigration. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York
Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kennedy Immigration Tack Vexes Democratic Leaders

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11


To Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the complex issue of immigration policy is simple
enough.

''We are the land of opportunity,'' he said. ''Our streets may not be paved with
gold, but they are paved with the promise that men and women who live here --
even strangers and newcomers -- can rise as fast, as far as their skills will
allow.''

While those words could have been part of his speech Monday to those rallying on
the Mall in Washington, they were delivered more than 40 years ago on the Senate
floor as Mr. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat, managed his first major piece of
legislation -- an immigration bill.

Decades later, Mr. Kennedy, the liberal leader and descendant of Irish
immigrants, is back in the thick of another immigration fight, pushing strongly
for a bipartisan compromise that would toughen border security while providing a
route to legal status for millions of illegal residents. And some of the fight
is with his own Democratic colleagues.

Mr. Kennedy's drive to strike a deal with Republicans is making some in his
party nervous. They worry that the senator, in his desire to bring about changes
in immigration law, will cede too much to Republicans and that the end product
will fall short on the guest worker and citizenship provisions favored by most
Democrats. They believe Mr. Kennedy made similar miscalculations when he cut
initial deals with Republicans on Medicare drug coverage and education policy.

''Just about everyone in the caucus is worried that without safeguards that this
is headed into an unfair, unbalanced bill,'' said one Democratic senator, who
would talk about internal party criticism only on the condition of anonymity.

Republicans acknowledge that Mr. Kennedy served as a valuable ally last week
when he broke with the Democratic leadership in its efforts to blame Republican
recalcitrance for the collapse of the immigration legislation. Mr. Kennedy, in a
split with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said he was
sympathetic to the Republican demand to offer amendments -- a sticking point
with Democrats.

''He certainly helped, by our lights, to make it a more truthful understanding
of what happened, and that leaves the door open for us when we come back,'' said
Eric Ueland, chief of staff to Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader.

The subject of immigration runs deep in Kennedy family lore. According to a
biography by Adam Clymer that focused on Mr. Kennedy's legislative
accomplishments, the senator used to regale his staff with how his maternal
grandfather, John F. Fitzgerald, who was known as Honey Fitz, opposed a literacy
requirement on new immigrants while serving in the House in 1897.

As a senator, John F. Kennedy opposed quotas on immigrants from outside Western
Europe, a cause Edward Kennedy and another brother, Robert, pursued as members
of the Senate. They took on Southern lawmakers who objected to giving Africans
the same opportunity to immigrate as those from Britain.

''This is one of his core issues, one of the things he has been concerned about
the longest,'' said Mr. Clymer, a former reporter for The New York Times, whose
book recounted Mr. Kennedy's 1965 floor speech.

As public outrage over increasing illegal immigration soared in recent years,
Mr. Kennedy joined with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, to find a
solution that went beyond border controls to making accommodations for some of
the millions of working illegal immigrants.

The two veteran lawmakers managed to bring other influential senators on board
and presented a comprehensive plan that provided part of the framework for
legislation approved by the Judiciary Committee. Though that plan met resistance
from Senate Republicans who viewed it as amnesty for those who had entered the
country illegally, the Senate announced a tentative agreement that embraced a
version of the Kennedy-McCain approach. But it lasted only hours. Mr. Frist,
confronted by angry members of his party, insisted on the opportunity to allow
consideration of some amendments. Democrats balked.

In a meeting Thursday evening in Mr. Reid's office, Mr. Kennedy argued for
moving ahead with the bill, confident that the votes were there to beat back
objectionable changes and that the debate could build momentum for the measure.
Mr. Reid and his leadership team countered that the amendments were meant to
derail the bill. They feared that without some assurances by Mr. Frist on
negotiations with the House, the bill could be hijacked by Republicans. Mr.
Kennedy lost.

A top aide to Mr. Reid said Tuesday that he was still determined to get a bill
and disputed assertions that he had made a political calculation to block it.

''Senator Reid is doing what is right for both his caucus and real immigration
reform,'' said Susan McCue, his chief of staff.

Mr. Kennedy said Tuesday that he believed the setback was temporary. ''I think
the momentum in our caucus is strongly in favor of immigration; there is a
difference on tactics,'' said Mr. Kennedy, noting that the situation is far
different for Republicans, who are split over the idea of allowing illegal
residents a chance to qualify for citizenship.

As he took in Monday's immigration rally here, Mr. Kennedy said he heard the
echoes of the civil rights movement and concluded that change was inevitable.

''There is too much velocity to deny it,'' he said. ''This is an extraordinary
grass-roots movement, and I think it is really one that we will have to
answer.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts exhorting the crowd
on Monday during a speech at an immigration rally at the Mall in Washington.
(Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Going After Migrants, but Not Employers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1083 words


AS they fanned into the Vidalia onion fields of Georgia, the 45 federal agents
were doing exactly what they thought they were supposed to do. It was 1998, and
they had just arrested 21 illegal immigrant farm workers and were about to round
up hundreds more.

But the raid met with a stinging rebuke from what might have seemed a surprising
source: two powerful Republicans from Georgia's Congressional delegation.

Saxby Chambliss, then a representative and now a senator, accused immigration
officials of using ''bullying tactics,'' while Senator Paul Coverdell denounced
''a moonshine raid'' against ''honest farmers who are simply trying to get their
products from the field to the marketplace.'' The Immigration and Naturalization
Service backed down, granting temporary amnesty to illegal onion pickers in 19
Georgia counties.

Today, Mr. Chambliss, as the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, is
leading efforts to pass tougher measures than many of his Senate colleagues
favor to rein in illegal immigration.

So why did he fight a crackdown in his own backyard? Asserting that he has
always supported enforcement against employers, Mr. Chambliss said he protested
the 1998 raid because he considered it too heavy-handed, with agents wearing
camouflage and waving .357's. Moreover, he said, arresting immigrants in a few
onion fields would result in other immigrants replacing them and would do
nothing to deter the flow.

''Going into one field or plant and arresting 30 or 40 people is not a solution
to the problem,'' Mr. Chambliss said.

But Doris Meissner, who was immigration commissioner under President Bill
Clinton, had a different explanation: members of Congress, particularly
Republicans, do not want to antagonize business.

''There was hypocrisy,'' Ms. Meissner said. ''On one hand, you say you want
enforcement, and then you see it's not so easy to live with the consequences in
your own district.''

Indeed, the lack of vigorous enforcement against employers who hire illegal
workers has been widely viewed as the main reason that 850,000 immigrants cross
the border illegally each year. Facing little in the way of penalties, employers
feel few qualms about hiring them for meatpacking, construction, agriculture and
janitorial work.

''You had a lack of political will to carry out the enforcement component, and
that was in part because of the demands of certain interests to enjoy cheap
foreign labor,'' said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who has
long supported strict limits on immigration. ''We are paying the price today for
a lack of enforcement for the last 20 years.''

But is the political climate finally ripe for more vigorous work-site
enforcement? Though the Senate did not pass a bill before its recess, and though
whatever bill it approves will differ from the tough legislation passed by the
House, both houses are more in sync on workplace enforcement. Both would stiffen
fines on employers who hire illegal immigrants, and the Bush administration has
recommended increasing the number of work-site investigators.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 did little to prevent employers
from hiring illegal immigrants. As a result many foreigners knew that if they
sneaked across the border, jobs would be waiting for them. All they needed was a
forged green card.

The 1986 act set fines up to $11,000 for hiring illegal workers. But the
employer penalties had a fatal weakness: employers could be fined only if the
government found that they knowingly hired someone illegally. To elude
penalties, employers need only assert a good-faith belief that the work
documents immigrants showed them were legitimate. Employers often insisted that
they could not tell whether the papers were false.

''Employer sanctions can be a very efficient tool if enforced,'' said George
Borjas, an economics professor at Harvard University. ''The problem is the way
the law reads, it's basically a joke. It basically gives employers a huge
loophole to walk through.''

Not only business but also organized labor opposed raids like those in Georgia,
asserting that employers often invited in federal agents when workers wanted to
unionize. ''It's not fair to punish employers when it's often impossible for
them to tell whether the documents a worker shows them are real or
counterfeit,'' said John W. Wilhelm, president of the hospitality division of
Unite Here, a union representing hotel, restaurant and apparel workers.

The number of federal immigration agents who focus on work-site enforcement
plunged to 65 nationwide in 2004, from 240 in 1999, according to the Government
Accountability Office. Moreover, the government reduced the number of notices of
intent to fine employers who hired illegal immigrants to just 3 in 2004 from 417
in 1999.

But recently the agency responsible for policing workplaces, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, has pursued more criminal actions against employers. Last
year, its work-site efforts resulted in 140 indictments, 127 convictions and 165
criminal arrests on top of 980 civil arrests.

Both the Senate compromise and the House bill call for a new nationwide
electronic verification system. Whenever they hire workers, employers would be
required to e-mail the government to find out whether the workers' Social
Security numbers are valid. If a worker's number is not valid according to a
government database, the employer would not hire that worker, although it might
be hard to identify workers who use stolen Social Security numbers.

Some see other problems. Immigration officials acknowledge gaps in the
databases, and they might be overwhelmed by having to check millions of names
each year.

With many businesses unhappy about the current muddle, the United States Chamber
of Commerce supports an electronic verification program. ''We recognize that the
current system is subject to abuse with fraudulent documentation,'' said Randel
Johnson, the chamber's vice president for labor, immigration and employee
benefits.

Many lawmakers want to require a fraud-proof national ID card -- perhaps a new
Social Security card with a photo and fingerprint for all citizens and legal
immigrants.

''We're trying to replace a nudge-nudge, wink-wink system of unrealistic laws
that don't get enforced with realistic laws that can be enforced,'' said Tamar
Jacoby, an immigration expert with the Manhattan Institute. ''It's like trying
to go from Prohibition to a system of liquor licenses.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Checking Employers''Under the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the number of federal investigations aimed at employers who may have
hired illegal immigrants fell 69 percent between 1992 and 2003. These figures
include both completed criminal investigations and spot checks of businesses.In
2003, United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement took over, initiating
only criminal investigations.Graph tracks number of federal investigations aimed
at employers who may have hired illegal immigrants since 1992.1992: 7,0532003:
2,1942005: 511(Source by Department of Homeland Security)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

House and Senate Hold Immigration Hearings

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Cindy Chang contributed reporting from San Diego for
this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, July 5


At odds over immigration, lawmakers from the Senate and the House held rival
hearings on Wednesday on opposite coasts, competing for public support for their
sharply differing proposals and moving no closer to compromise.

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, sponsors of a bipartisan bill passed by the
Senate in May, chose the day after the Fourth of July to hold a hearing wrapped
in patriotic themes at the National Constitution Center here.

Most of the speakers embraced the Senate's approach, which calls for a path to
citizenship for most illegal immigrants and a guest worker program, as well as
enhanced border security and punishment for employers who hire illegal workers.

In San Diego, Representative Ed Royce, Republican of California and chairman of
the House Subcommittee on International Terrorism and Non-Proliferation, was
chosen to lead a meeting in a Border Patrol station that featured agents and
local sheriffs.

Mr. Royce framed the hearing with a warning that the United States was ''losing
ground'' on securing the borders against terrorists. One of the main speakers,
Darryl Griffen, the San Diego Border Patrol chief, said his agents continued to
be swamped by illegal immigrants.

Democrats at the hearing accused Republicans of fanning sentiment against
immigrants while delaying action on reform. ''The leadership wants us to start
here with hearings that are really a dog and pony show,'' said Representative
Brad Sherman of California.

A Republican bill adopted by the House in December focuses on border security
and makes it a crime to be in the United States illegally. House Republicans
have rejected Senate proposals for a route to citizenship for a majority of
illegal immigrants, calling it amnesty.

Mr. Specter, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, led the hearing here,
shaping the session to feature employers and politicians who spoke of critical
labor shortages in local businesses and an urgent need for immigrant labor.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York said his city's economy would be ''a
shell of itself'' without the city's immigrants, 40 percent of the population,
and would ''collapse'' if illegal immigrants were deported en masse. Mr.
Bloomberg called for a national fraud-proof employee identification card that
would allow employers to determine easily the legal status of immigrants.

Carol Green Rossi, representing the Pennsylvania Tourism and Lodging
Association, said hotels in her state were ''constantly in the recruitment
mode'' for immigrant labor but faced troubling and costly problems with
inefficient guest worker programs and systems to verify immigration status.

Mayor Louis Barletta of Hazelton, Pa., which has adopted strict measures to
punish employers who hire illegal immigrants and landlords who rent to them.
said a recent wave of killings by illegal immigrants had ''terrorized'' the
city. In addition, Mayor Barletta said, municipal services are ''buckling under
the strain'' of illegal immigration.

In San Diego, a group of immigrants' rights activists held a vigil while more
than 100 protesters who want to reduce illegal immigration packed the hearing
room and an area outside.

''We want our borders secure,'' said Don Schenck, 69, a retired postal worker
from Corona, Calif., who was one of the protesters. ''We want no amnesty for
people who broke our laws.''

In Alexandria, Va., President Bush paid a surprise morning visit to a Dunkin'
Donuts owned by two Iranian-American brothers to emphasize his support for
comprehensive immigration reform, a catchword for the Senate approach. Mr. Bush
said he opposed amnesty and wanted not only enhanced border enforcement but also
a ''rational plan'' that would not lead to mass deportations.

''I'm also realistic to tell you that we're not going to be able to deport
people who have been here, working hard and raising their families,'' Mr. Bush
said.

White House officials said Mr. Bush was not stepping back from a compromise he
has floated in recent days, in which border security measures would be put in
place as much as two years before guest worker and immigrant legalization
programs. But the president restated that he did not want the security measures
in a separate bill, as House Republicans insist.

''What this White House has been clear about is you don't do borders only,''
said Tony Snow, the White House spokesman.

Senators said Mr. Bush was moving toward their position, but House Republicans
said he was moving toward theirs. ''I think things have moved remarkably in the
direction of border security in the past few weeks,'' Mr. Royce said.

Mr. Specter acknowledged the political duel with the House.

''We don't have to match them, we have to exceed them,'' he said of his House
counterparts, adding that the Senate could not sit by ''like a potted plant''
while the House held hearings across the country.

The Senate announced Wednesday that Senator John W. Warner, Republican of
Virginia and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, would hold a hearing in
Miami on Monday. The topic is ''Contributions of Immigrants to the U. S. Armed
Forces.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Moises Torres of Los Angeles picketed yesterday at a Border
Patrol station during hearings on immigration. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker/Getty
Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 8, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Overhaul Takes a Back Seat as Campaign Season Begins

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS; Lakiesha R. Carr contributed reporting from
Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7


House Republicans vowed Thursday to move swiftly to pass a series of border
security measures by the end of September. But they made it clear they would not
heed President Bush's call to create a guest worker plan or grant legal status
to the nation's illegal immigrants before the November midterm elections.

The House speaker, Representative J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, and
others said House leaders would hold a hearing -- scheduled for Tuesday -- to
discuss strategies to secure the border and then present a package of
legislation, perhaps as early as Wednesday.

Mr. Hastert said House Republicans would continue their discussions with the
Senate in an effort to come to a consensus about overhauling immigration laws,
but he emphasized that they would focus first on what could be accomplished this
month before Congress recesses. He said the initiatives would emerge from
hearings held around the country in August.

''Before you have a guest worker program or any other program, you need to heal
the wound or stop the bleeding,'' Mr. Hastert said at a news conference. ''We
need to solve the first problems first.''

''We're at war,'' he added. ''Our borders are a sieve. We need to stop the
bleeding.''

After he spoke, hundreds of immigrants rallied outside the Capitol, waving
American flags and warning lawmakers that they would be held accountable at the
polls if they did not take steps to legalize the more than 11 million illegal
immigrants in the United States.

But the political potency of such marches, which drew hundreds of thousands of
immigrants in the spring, seemed to be waning. Organizers here had predicted
hundreds of thousands of demonstrators on Thursday, but it appeared that only
several thousand showed up. Rallies in Phoenix and Batavia, Ill., this week also
drew smaller crowds than had been predicted.

Lily Najera, a 19-year-old community college student from El Salvador, said she
was surprised by the low turnout.

''I don't know if people are losing hope because they don't see any progress,''
said Ms. Najera, who attended the rallies in the spring.

The prospects for passage of the House border security package in the Senate
remained uncertain. Senate leaders have acknowledged that their bill, which
would put the majority of illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship in
addition to tightening the border, will probably not become law before November.

Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, the majority leader, said this week
that it would be ''next to impossible'' for Congress to pass such a bill in the
next three weeks. Amy Call, a spokeswoman for Mr. Frist, said Senate Republicans
would be willing to consider the border security initiatives proposed by the
House.

''Securing the border is a key responsibility,'' Ms. Call said Thursday. ''We'll
be interested to see what they bring forward.''

Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, a Republican champion of the Senate
legislation, argued, however, that border security by itself was not enough. He
said a mechanism like a guest worker program to create a legal pathway into the
country was an essential component of any plan intended to deter immigrants from
illegally crossing from Mexico into the United States.

''That may sound good politically speaking,'' Mr. Martinez said of the House
plan. ''But I think we need a sincere, comprehensive approach to the problem.
That's what I would be insisting on, that we do provide for some legal pathway
to enter the country.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, assailed the House plan as
little more than political posturing on the part of House Republicans.

''Secretary Chertoff, White House officials responsible for homeland security
and every expert agree that you can't secure our borders without breaking the
cycle of illegality for the millions who are already here,'' said Mr. Kennedy,
referring to Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security.

''The president understands this,'' Mr. Kennedy said, ''and should step in to
help his colleagues see the shortsightedness of their actions.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts spoke yesterday at a
rally for immigrant rights, where turnout was lower than had been predicted.
(Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Backs Job Verification for Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 950 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23


The Senate voted on Tuesday to require employers to use a vast new employment
verification system that would allow businesses to distinguish between legal and
illegal workers.

Employers would be required to enter the Social Security numbers or immigrant
identification numbers of all job applicants, including citizens, into the
computerized system, which would be created by the Department of Homeland
Security. The system would notify businesses within three days whether the
applicant was authorized to work in the United States.

Those job applicants determined to be illegal would have to be fired. The
measure, approved 58 to 40, is included in a bill that would legalize the vast
majority of the nation's illegal immigrants, which is expected to pass the
Senate later this week.

The new requirements would result in a broad operational shift for employers who
have relied almost entirely on a paper system -- the collection of identity
documents -- to determine the legal status of their workers. The measure is
considered a linchpin of the current immigration legislation because it is
designed to deter illegal immigration by making it extremely difficult for
undocumented immigrants to find work.

Without such a provision, senators say, American businesses would remain a
powerful magnet for millions of illegal immigrants. The legislation calls for
creating documents that would be resistant to counterfeiting for legal
immigrants and stiff fines for violations by employers. It requires the
verification system to be operational and in use by all businesses within 18
months once Congress appropriates the money for it.

''This is probably the single most important thing we can do in terms of
reducing the inflow of undocumented workers,'' Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of
Illinois, said of the measure, which was pushed ahead by Senator Charles E.
Grassley, Republican of Iowa.

Mr. Grassley hailed the measure as an effort ''to balance the needs of workers,
employers and immigration enforcement.''

But some administration officials, employers and other lawmakers raised sharp
questions about the amendment, which was developed in consultation with the
American Civil Liberties Union.

Officials at the United States Chamber of Commerce applauded the plan, but
expressed doubts that homeland security officials could speedily create such a
system.

''This is a massive undertaking on the part of the federal government,'' said
Randy Johnson, vice president at the chamber. ''Our conversations with the
administration have indicated that 18 months is too short.''

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security sent e-mail messages to
senators saying they had concerns about the system's ''workability and
implementation.''

White House officials declined to comment, but participants in negotiations on
the amendment said officials were concerned with a provision that would require
the federal government to reimburse workers who were fired because of a mistake
involving the system.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said homeland security officials
feared the system would allow many illegal workers to continue working when a
definitive finding of legal status could not be made.

The vote in favor of employment verification came as the Senate rejected several
amendments intended to help refugees and illegal immigrants affected by the
legislation.

Lawmakers defeated a measure, sponsored by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of
California, that would have legalized all illegal immigrants, regardless of how
long they have lived here. They also voted down an amendment to toughen
workplace and safety standards and another to help refugees whose resettlement
here has been delayed because their indirect support for armed rebels opposed to
their repressive governments has put them in technical violation of American
antiterrorism laws.

Critics say the legislation would increase the burdens on asylum seekers,
eliminate federal review of deportation orders and leave millions of illegal
immigrants in the shadows. Human rights groups are particularly concerned about
a measure that would allow asylum seekers to be deported even while their claims
were under review by federal courts.

''The impact on asylum seekers would be devastating and potentially
irreversible,'' said Eleanor Acer, director of the asylum program at Human
Rights First, an advocacy group. ''You would essentially be deporting refugees
back to their countries of persecution.''

Difficult negotiations lie ahead between the Senate and House, where many
Republicans strongly oppose legalization of illegal immigrants.

Hoping to narrow the gap between Senate and House Republicans on this issue, the
leader of the House conservative caucus announced a bill that would allow the
illegal immigrants to participate in a guest worker plan, but would not grant
them permanent residency or citizenship.

The measure, sponsored by Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana,
would require the nation's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants to leave the
country to apply for a slot in the program, which would be administered by
private employment agencies licensed by the American government.

House Republicans expressed lukewarm support for the bill, which was promptly
attacked by conservative critics of guest worker programs. But the bill was
praised by White House officials.

Under the employment verification provision, job applicants deemed illegal would
have 10 days to challenge that determination with the Department of Homeland
Security. If homeland security officials failed to confirm that determination
within 30 days, the applicant would be considered legal to work.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Dianne Feinstein spoke to reporters yesterday about her
proposal to legalize all illegal immigrants. The amendment was defeated. (Photo
by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Businesses Suing Competitors, Calling Illegal Workers Unfair

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 23


Frustrated by what they see as lax enforcement of immigration law, some
businesses are suing competitors, accusing them of hiring illegal workers to
achieve an unfair advantage.

Businesses and groups opposing illegal immigration call the suits an effort to
create an economic deterrent against hiring illegal workers.

''We see the legal profession bringing to this issue the kind of effect it's had
on consumer product safety,'' said Michael Hethmon of the Immigration Reform Law
Institute, one group backing the efforts.

In the first of what are to be a series of lawsuits, Global Horizons, a Santa
Monica temporary-employment agency that supplies farm workers, brought a case
Monday against two competitors and a grower. Companies planning to file
additional suits include farms and factories that depend heavily on immigrant
labor, said David Klehm, the lead lawyer for cases in Southern California.

Similar cases have been brought in the past by employees claiming violations of
federal antiracketeering laws, and have yielded mixed results. But the Global
Horizons suit, legal experts say, is believed to be the first taking aim at
illegal immigration on the basis of a state's unfair-competition laws.

Global Horizons claims in the suit that Munger Brothers, a grower, hired illegal
immigrant workers from Ayala Agricultural Services and J & A Contractors. All
the defendants are based in the Central Valley, California's agricultural spine.

The suit says that Global Horizons had a contract with Munger Brothers to
provide more than 600 blueberry pickers this spring but that the grower broke
the agreement so it could hire illegal immigrants.

''Competitors' hiring illegal immigrants is hurting our business badly,'' said
the president of Global Horizons, Mordechai Orian.

Javier Rodriguez, manager of Ayala Agricultural Services, said that he had not
seen the suit but that the company did not hire illegal immigrants.

Messages left with Munger Brothers and J & A Contractors were not immediately
returned.

Legal experts said the cases could be difficult to win. Under the California
statutes, plaintiffs must prove that a competitor directly harmed their
business, and ''unless you've got smoking-gun evidence, it's hard to tie
economic loss of one business to another's practices,'' said Niels Frenzen, a
law professor at the University of Southern California.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Failed Amnesty Legislation of 1986 Haunts the Current Immigration Bills in
Congress

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1339 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22


Day in and day out, as the immigration debate boils, the halls of Congress are
haunted by the specter of Senate Bill 1200, the failed amnesty legislation of
1986.

President Ronald Reagan signed that bill into law with great fanfare amid
promises that it would grant legal status to illegal immigrants, crack down on
employers who hired illegal workers and secure the border once and for all.
Instead, fraudulent applications tainted the process, many employers continued
their illicit hiring practices, and illegal immigration surged.

Today, senators who hope to put the nation's illegal immigrants on a path to
citizenship say they have learned from the past. But some members of Congress
and former immigration officials fear history will repeat itself.

Even some who favor legalization warn that the current bill, which requires
illegal immigrants to submit affidavits, rent receipts and other documents as
proof of eligibility, may fuel a wave of fraudulent documents and applications.

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, who studied the 1986 amnesty at the Labor Department
in the first Bush administration, said he was encouraged when he heard that the
Senate was close to granting legal status to illegal workers. But Dr.
Papademetriou, who is now president of the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonpartisan research group in Washington, said his heart sank when he learned
about the legalization process, which he believes will create a market for
counterfeit documents.

In the late 1980's, immigration officials approved more than 90 percent of the
1.3 million amnesty applications for a specialized program for agricultural
workers, even though they had identified possible fraud in nearly a third of
those applications. The general amnesty, which legalized 1.7 million people,
worked much more efficiently, though some of its applications raised similar
concerns.

Dr. Papademetriou, recalling the difficulties 20 years ago, said: ''We're going
back to 1986. Do we ever learn anything?''

The bills share some striking similarities, but there are also clear
differences, providing fodder for advocates on both sides of the debate.
Lawmakers and immigration experts have been comparing the bills as it has become
increasingly likely that the current legislation will pass the Senate this week.

Unlike the 1986 amnesty, the current bill requires illegal immigrants to work
and pay steep fines and back taxes before becoming legal permanent residents.
The Chamber of Commerce, which opposed Senate Bill 1200, supports the current
legislation, which calls for the creation of a computer system to help
businesses verify the legal status of employees, stiffer penalties for employers
who disregard the law and a guest worker program to accommodate future flows of
immigrant workers.

Meanwhile, the Homeland Security Department is expanding its fraud-detection
capabilities, officials say. And today, there is much greater political and
public pressure for keeping the border secure and cracking down on employers.

But supporters and critics agree that the immigration system created by the
current bill, like the one created in 1986, may be vulnerable to fraud, and they
raise concerns about the government's commitment to maintaining adequate
financing for border security and employee verification. They also warn that the
burden on the Homeland Security Department, which would carry out the program,
would be enormous.

Two decades ago, about three million illegal immigrants were eligible for
amnesty. This time, roughly 10 million people are expected to be eligible for
legalization.

Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, dismissed the recent criticism,
saying it was coming from lawmakers who ''oppose this bill and are looking for a
way to kill it.''

There is no denying, however, that the 1986 amnesty has cast a long shadow over
the legislation. It is the invisible enemy lurking in nearly every Congressional
debate, challenging and dogging even the most eloquent champions of immigrants.
These days, skeptical senators pepper their speeches with repeated references to
its failures.

Many lawmakers engaged in this legislative fray are veterans of 1986, and
several senators supported amnesty then, including Arlen Specter, Republican of
Pennsylvania; Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa; Richard G. Lugar,
Republican of Indiana; Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York; and John Kerry,
Democrat of Massachusetts.

Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who supports the current
bill, voted against amnesty in 1986.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, the Republican chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee and a vocal opponent of the proposed
legalization, also opposed the 1986 amnesty. Mr. Sensenbrenner and many House
Republicans vehemently oppose this year's bill, leaving its future uncertain.

On Monday, Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, moved to limit debate this
week to ensure a final vote on the bill before Memorial Day. Meanwhile,
lawmakers voted in favor of an amendment that would place National Guard troops
on the United States border with Mexico.

''Since the '86 law did not succeed, people are understandably skeptical,'' said
Mr. Specter, who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. ''But this time,
things are different.''

In 1986, immigrant groups and many Democrats opposed the amnesty, fearing that
restraints on employers would lead companies to avoid hiring legal immigrants or
citizens with unusual names. Today, Democrats, immigrant groups and business
leaders are among the strongest backers of the bill.

Supporters say better technology exists to create counterfeit-resistant cards to
help employers distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants, secure the
border and root out fraud. They say President Bush has demonstrated his
commitment to enforcement by asking Congress for $1.9 billion to pay for putting
up to 6,000 more National Guard troops on the Mexico border.

Structurally, though, there are still parallels to 1986. Then, as now, the
legislation created two separate programs, a general legalization program and a
program specifically for agricultural workers. And as in 1986, the agricultural
program's rules in this year's bill are less stringent.

Under the legalization program, illegal immigrants would have to prove that they
have lived in the United States for five years or more to qualify. Illegal
immigrants who have been here two to five years could also apply, though they
would have to depart the country first and participate in a temporary guest
worker program before trying for legal residency. Both sets of applicants would
have six months to apply.

Under the agriculture program, applicants would have to prove they had performed
agricultural work for 150 days in 2005. They would be given 18 months to apply.
Some critics fear the gap between the two programs would touch off a rush to the
farmworker program.

Doris Meissner, who studied the 1986 amnesty and later ran the federal
immigration agency under President Bill Clinton, warned that many illegal
immigrants, who often lack documentation, would most likely turn to the black
market to find them. Ms. Meissner also questioned the assumption that illegal
immigrants who failed to qualify for legalization would leave the country. That
did not happen in 1986.

''The shift on the part of business is critical,'' said Ms. Meissner, who works
with Dr. Papademetriou at the Migration Policy Institute here.

Senator Kennedy agreed. He described questions about fraud and the Homeland
Security Department's administrative capacity as ''a legitimate concern.'' But
he said the consensus on employers would make a big difference.

''It's going to be enforced,'' he said.

Former Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, a Republican and a chief sponsor of
the 1986 amnesty, said the Senate's immigration proposal would be doomed if
enforcement efforts flagged again.

''Then, there will be more amnesties,'' he said, ''and more chaos.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ronald Reagan, in 1986, congratulated Representative
Romano Mazzoli, one of the principal architects of an immigration bill. (Photo
by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Measure Stalls in the Senate

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 869 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4


Senate Republicans who support legislation that would legalize the nation's 11
million illegal immigrants said Tuesday that they lacked enough support to bring
the measure to a vote this week and were working on a more limited compromise
that would rally a broader cross-section of Republicans.

But Democrats, angered by what they viewed as Republican efforts to gut the
legislation, responded by using a parliamentary tactic to force lawmakers to
decide Thursday whether the bill should be considered for a vote on the Senate
floor.

''What we're trying to do is preserve a strong, bipartisan bill,'' said Senator
Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. ''Are the Republicans going to stand up
and vote for comprehensive immigration reform? Or are they not?''

Eric Ueland, chief of staff for Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, assailed
the Democrats' move as ''a serious blow to efforts to find common ground,'' and
said Republicans would continue their negotiations on a possible compromise.

''The minority will be held accountable,'' Mr. Ueland said.

Mr. Frist has imposed a deadline of the end of this week for a vote on
immigration legislation. With the growing prospect of a deadlock on a
comprehensive bill, Republicans and Democrats started pointing fingers and
warning that the opposing party would be to blame if efforts at passing a bill
were to collapse.

Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, warned that the Democratic maneuver might result in the demise of his
bill, which called for the legalization of the nation's immigrants. He said that
''both sides are going to be losers'' if a bipartisan compromise did not emerge.

''It's getting very late in the week to salvage the bill,'' Mr. Specter said.
''It's a power struggle now. It's a struggle of wills.''

The Republican compromise centered on a proposal that would eventually grant
citizenship to illegal immigrants who had already lived in this country for five
years or more, provided that they remained employed, paid fines and back taxes
and learned English, among other things, said a Senate aide familiar with the
compromise.

Illegal immigrants who have lived here for less time would have to report to an
American port of entry, such as an airport or land port, where they would be
classified as temporary workers and allowed to work for up to six years before
returning home or applying for permanent residency, which could ultimately lead
to citizenship.

The proposal was intended to bridge the sharp divide between those Republicans
who argue that illegal immigrants should return home and those who believe that
they should be put on a path to citizenship.

Republicans, who huddled in a flurry of meetings to work through the details,
said they hoped that such a compromise would result in some consensus in their
party so a vote on immigration legislation could be held this week.

Last week, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted in favor of legislation that
would legalize nearly all of the nation's illegal immigrants. But the supporters
of that bill, including Mr. Specter and Senators John McCain of Arizona and Mel
Martinez of Florida, both Republicans, said Tuesday that they did not have
enough support to bring the committee's legislation to the floor for a vote.

''We're going to have to find a place where we can all land,'' said Mr.
Martinez, one of the principal architects of the compromise. ''What we're all
trying to find is something that is common ground enough to get the majority of
Republicans on board.''

Mr. Martinez said that his first allegiance remained with the legislation
produced by the Judiciary Committee but that he feared it lacked adequate
Republican support. ''I'm trying to find a fallback,'' he said.

That effort was swiftly attacked by Democrats, who said that it would weaken the
committee's bill, which has the backing of most Democrats. And they worked to
block any Republican amendments to the immigration bill in an effort to force a
decision on whether to bring the committee bill to a vote on the Senate floor.

Senator Harry Reid, the minority leader and a Democrat from Nevada, said there
was no need for a compromise.

''We have a bill that's bipartisan,'' said Mr. Reid, referring to the Judiciary
Committee's legislation. ''It covers strong borders, a guest worker program and
a path to legalization for the people about whom you just spoke. We don't need a
compromise.''

The White House also entered the debate on Tuesday, issuing a statement of
administration policy that praised the Senate Judiciary Committee for including
a temporary worker program in its legislation.

But the Bush administration warned that the final bill should not ''create an
automatic path to permanent residency or citizenship.''

Republicans said they would be working into the night to build a compromise on
the question of illegal immigrants that might attract more Republican support
without alienating conservatives opposed to amnesty.

Mr. Ueland said he was hopeful that a bill would be passed this week. But he and
others acknowledged that time was short.

Mr. Martinez said, ''We're still looking to find a magic formula.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Arlen Specter, second from left, and Senator Jon Kyl,
right, conferred with staff members yesterday after a meeting with other
Republican members trying to reach a compromise on immigration legislation.
(Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Across the U.S., Protests for Immigrants Draw Thousands

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Reporting for this article was contributed by
Laura Griffin in Dallas; Judy Sheppard in Birmingham, Ala.; Corey Taule in
Boise, Idaho; Elisa Williams in Salem, Ore.; and Andrea Zarate in Miami.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1310 words


Demonstrators flying banners of immigration reform marched in cities across the
nation yesterday to demand citizenship and a share of the American dream for
millions of illegal immigrants who have run a gantlet of closed borders, broken
families, snake-eyed smugglers and economic exploitation.

Singing, chanting and waving placards and American flags, a sea of demonstrators
-- police estimates ran as high as 500,000 -- marched in downtown Dallas in the
largest of the protests. Some 20,000 rallied in San Diego, 7,000 in Miami, and
4,000 each in Birmingham, Ala., and Boise, Idaho.

Thousands more gathered in Salem, Ore., and other cities in peaceful, forceful
displays of support for the cause of immigrants.

''It's a good feeling that we are finally standing up for ourselves,'' Robert
Martinez said at the rally in Dallas.

''For years, we never say nothing,'' said Mr. Martinez, who crossed the Rio
Grande illegally 22 years ago and eventually became an American citizen. ''We
just work hard, follow the rules and pay taxes. And they try to make these laws.
It's time people knew how we felt.''

While yesterday's rallies were an impressive extension of the growing immigrant
protests that have spread across the country in recent weeks, organizers said
they were only a tuneup for nationwide demonstrations today, billed as a
National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice. Events in more than 120 cities are
expected to draw more than two million people.

On a gentle spring Sunday basted by golden sunshine and blue skies, crowds
gathered in ebullient moods, spreading over downtown streets and parks in cities
large and small. The demonstrators were mostly Hispanic, but they included
people of Asian, European and African backgrounds.

Most wore white shirts to symbolize peace. Many carried American flags or the
flags of Mexico and other countries of Central and South America and Asia. At
the rally in Dallas, ''God Bless America'' and ''This Land Is Your Land'' blared
on loudspeakers, as well as the music of Mexico, as marchers chanted ''Si, se
puede'' (''Yes, we can'') and ''U.S.A., all the way.''

''We never anticipated it getting this big,'' said Lt. Rick Watson, a spokesman
for the Dallas police. ''The estimates were anywhere from 20,000 to 200,000, and
they kept coming and coming.'' Many businesses in Dallas closed for the day,
some churches held services early to accommodate marchers, and the Dallas
Symphony canceled an afternoon performance.

The Dallas protesters were young and old. Some were families pushing baby
strollers. Some walked with canes, others rolled along in wheelchairs. There
were members of unions, churches, civil rights organizations and business
groups, but many were strangers to one another. Some spoke passionately about
their desire to be Americans, to vote and to hold a job without fear.

''We are here to support American values,'' said Juan Gomez, 40, who arrived in
Dallas from Peru 10 years ago and is vice president of United Voices for
Immigrants and a teacher of English to immigrant adults. ''America was built
with immigrants.''

''We live the values of this country,'' he said.

Passions were similar in Birmingham. ''This is holy ground,'' the Rev. Derrill
Wilson of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference told people gathered at
Kelly Ingram Park, where the police turned fire hoses on black children during
the civil rights protests in 1963. ''Here you stand up for yourselves. Stand up
for everyone. And most of all, stand up for your children.''

Out in the crowd, many spoke about paths to citizenship, rights and protections
in the workplace. But Mario Limas Hernandez, a mechanic, talked of another right
-- to be with his family. He said that although he was an American citizen, his
wife was not; she and their children had been sent home to Mexico.

''One of the rights of citizenship is that you get to live with your close
family,'' he said.

The crowds at many of the protests also cheered speakers who denounced a system
that has driven more than 11 million illegal immigrants into shadowy lives of
subterfuge, and who called for a new deal that would extend basic rights to them
and a chance of eventual citizenship. Organizers said the protests would not
stop until Congress passed laws to improve their lives.

Much of the anger yesterday and at the protests in recent weeks was directed at
a bill passed by the House of Representatives last December. It would have
authorized a 700-mile fence along the Mexican border; raised the crime of
illegal immigration to a felony; and criminalized giving assistance, including
food and water, to illegal immigrants.

One of the smaller protests yesterday was a gathering of 700 people in
Massapequa Park, N.Y., outside the office of Representative Peter T. King, a
Republican who was a co-sponsor of the House bill. Mr. King was not there, but a
small band of his supporters were. ''We pay our taxes,'' one of their placards
declared.

A campaign in Congress to enact the most sweeping immigration changes in two
decades reached a bipartisan compromise last week that Democrats and Republicans
hailed as a breakthrough.

The Senate bill would open doors to citizenship for most illegal immigrants if
they paid fines and learned English. It would also create a guest worker program
for 325,000 people a year to meet the needs of business, and would tighten
border security to satisfy conservatives.

But the agreement was derailed on Friday by feuding over amendments and other
issues, casting its future in doubt as lawmakers recessed for two weeks. Senator
Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican and the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, pledged in an interview on ''Fox News Sunday'' to have the measure
ready for debate when Congress resumes.

Both Democratic and Republican leaders have sought to court the Hispanic vote.
While Hispanics cast just 6 percent of the ballots in the 2004 election, birth
rates and other factors suggest a much higher proportion in future elections.
The nation's 42 million Hispanics account for about one in seven people in this
country, and for about half of the recent growth in population.

In San Diego, which is near Tijuana, Mexico, and is the nation's busiest border
crossing, about 20,000 demonstrators gathered at Balboa Park and marched
downtown to a rally. Many carried signs proclaiming ''We are Americans'' and
''We march today, we vote tomorrow.''

American flags predominated in the crowd. Advocates of the protests there and
elsewhere have recently voiced concerns that the presence of many Mexican flags
might set off a backlash, and organizers said they scrambled to find as many
American flags as possible.

In Miami, where protesters gathered against a backdrop of skyscrapers, Maria
Rodriguez, 39, said: ''This is the people bringing the flags. It seems that they
heard the message: American people want flags. We'll, let's give them flags!
It's really spontaneous. It's not about the flag. It's about people getting a
chance.''

Dressed in an Uncle Sam costume in the Miami crowd, Oribe Pineiro, 32, who
arrived from Uruguay six years ago, said he had never achieved legal status here
and was still waiting to apply for a work permit. He also said he was alone in
this country, caught in a trap, while his family was in Uruguay.

''My mother is 74 years old,'' he said, ''and I don't know when I will be able
to see her again because I can't leave the country. I am stuck in a golden
cage.''

Orlando Fernandez, 51, who arrived in Miami 26 years ago on the Mariel boat lift
and works for a nonprofit organization that helps the poor, said there was hope
for immigration legislation.

''This is a year of elections, and politicians want to gain popularity with this
problem,'' he said, adding, ''We are all immigrants here, except for the
American Indians.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, marchers in Miami, people heading to a vigil in
Milwaukee and a protester at the Dallas rally. (Photo by Larry W. Smith for The
New York Times)
(Photo by Darren Hauck for The New York Times)
(Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
 A crowd estimated by the police at 500,000 marched yesterday in downtown
Dallas. Rallies are scheduled again today across the country. (Photo by Smiley
N. Pool/Dallas Morning News, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Vow Action

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11


The two top Republicans in Congress said Tuesday that they intended to produce
immigration legislation that would not subject illegal immigrants to prosecution
as felons as does a House bill passed last year.

A statement by Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, and the House speaker,
J. Dennis Hastert, did not say whether they would seek legislation subjecting
illegal immigrants to misdemeanor prosecution or a civil penalty like a fine.

Senate efforts to write a bill giving most illegal immigrants a chance to become
citizens reached an impasse last week. Mr. Frist has said he intends to bring
the issue back to the Senate floor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Mulls How to Move Immigration Bill Through Congress

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13


The White House is fast at work recalibrating how best to use the power of the
presidency to save immigration legislation from languishing for the rest of the
year, eager for a victory in what has been a difficult political season for
President Bush.

Until late last week, Mr. Bush had, at least publicly, stayed to the side of the
warring between factions of his party, and the Democrats, as the Senate hashed
out a compromise between sealing the nation's borders and legalizing the illegal
work force already here without granting what opponents could call ''amnesty.''

This week, Mr. Bush has placed himself at the vanguard of the issue, publicly
lacerating the Senate minority leader, Harry Reid, of Nevada, for blocking the
legislation last week on procedural grounds.

On Thursday, Mr. Bush accused Mr. Reid of ''single-handedly thwarting the will
of the American people and impeding bipartisan efforts to secure this border,
and make this immigration system of ours more humane and rational.''

It was the second time in a week that Mr. Bush had directly attacked Mr. Reid,
who blames Republicans for the stalemate. The president's words have been
followed up with e-mail messages from the White House to the news media, and by
comments from his press secretary in the White House briefing room.

Some Republicans worry that a tougher bill in the House, cracking down on
illegal immigrants, has become closely associated with the party. They are
hoping that the campaign will turn public sentiment against Democrats and
pressure Mr. Reid to allow a bill to go forward.

Mr. Reid has said his next move will depend on what the Republicans do.

With the House and the Senate on break, White House officials are in regular
contact with party allies trying to figure out how involved the president should
get in the Senate fight.

Mr. Bush has steadfastly avoided wading too deeply into the details of the
legislation, sticking to statements that he would like to see ''comprehensive
reform'' that creates a program giving illegal immigrants the right to work here
and provides for tighter border control and stricter enforcement against law
breakers.

Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida and an ally of Mr. Bush, helped
broker the compromise last week. He said the plan had been to keep the president
out of the fight in the Senate so that he could serve as a broker who could pull
his party together during what would be difficult negotiations reconciling the
Senate and House bills.

''Some people might wonder if he's been cautious,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''He
wants to be helpful and that also means not getting specifically wedded to one
specific piece of legislation.''

As a former governor of Texas, a border state that has seen the benefits and
challenges of immigration, Mr. Bush has wanted to pursue an overhaul of
immigration ''since Day 1,'' said Charles Black, a Republican strategist and
longtime associate of Mr. Bush and the Bush family.

Mr. Bush's top political strategist, Karl Rove, had identified the immigration
issue as an opportunity for the party to win Hispanic voters -- an effort that
seems to have been complicated by the House bill.

''Texas is a state that has benefited economically and culturally because of the
close relationship between Texas and Mexico,'' said Ken Mehlman, the chairman of
the Republican National Committee. ''But he understands that border communities
can be hurt if the law is not enforced.''

White House officials have acknowledged that the administration erred in
initially stressing guest worker provisions more than border enforcement,
alarming conservative House members and stepping squarely into the abyss
separating the moderates and conservatives of his party. That gave Mr. Bush all
the more reason to stand back in recent weeks.

This week Mr. Reid accused the president of standing back too far, failing to
corral conservative senators who wanted to attach amendments to the Senate bill
that would have toughened the legislation.

Mr. Reid has said that the possibility of such amendments left him no choice but
to block a vote.

''They thought once they got the bill into conference, they'd be fine,'' Jim
Manley, Mr. Reid's spokesman, said. ''They miscalculated.''

When White House aides alerted Mr. Bush that last-minute parliamentary
procedures had scuttled Senate approval of compromise legislation late Thursday,
he met them with disbelief.

Impatient with explanations of the technicalities, he wondered aloud how an
agreement announced just that morning was suddenly dead, according to a meeting
participant who was granted anonymity to speak freely about the encounter.

That chagrin seems to have galvanized the president in his comments singling out
Mr. Reid. But as the White House weighs its next move it is receiving
conflicting advice.

In a statement Thursday night, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts
Democrat who helped to broker the Senate compromise, urged the president to take
a more active role in the Senate debate when it resumes. But Senator John
Cornyn, Republican of Texas, who opposed the measure, said the president should
weigh in later.

With more than a week to go before Congress reconvenes, however, the White House
still has some time to plot it out.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legalize or Bust

BYLINE: By David M. Sperling.

David M. Sperling is an immigration lawyer.

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: Huntington Station, N.Y.


AS the national debate over illegal immigration reaches a fever pitch, it may
come as a surprise to learn that legalization of undocumented immigrants from
Latin America has been under way in the suburbs of New York City for more than
15 years.

Special immigration programs starting in 1991 have provided work permits and
green cards to tens of thousands of Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans on
Long Island and in Westchester County. Their integration into the region's
economy provides a glimpse of how legalization could transform the nation.

The greater metropolitan area is unusual because its immigrant population is
overwhelmingly Central American, not Mexican. Unlike Mexicans, Central Americans
have been the beneficiaries of some of the country's most generous immigration
policies.

Refugees fleeing guerrilla wars and natural catastrophes in El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras streamed into the region starting in the 1980's. After
applying for political asylum or temporary protected status, they were able to
obtain work permits, Social Security cards and driver's licenses.

Salvadorans -- by far the largest immigrant group on Long Island and in
Westchester -- have been the beneficiaries of two separate protected-status
programs, first in 1991 and again in 2001 after devastating earthquakes in their
homeland.

The latest program, recently extended for another year, has alone resulted in
the legalization, albeit temporary, of more than 30,000 Salvadorans living on
Long Island and in Westchester. Hondurans living in the United States since 1998
were also eligible for temporary protected status after Hurricane Mitch, and
their status has recently been extended to July 2007.

A 1997 law called the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, has
led to legal permanent resident status for more than 15,000 Salvadorans and
Guatemalans on Long Island and in Westchester. Thousands more Hispanic
immigrants have obtained green cards through work, marriage and family
relationships.

When immigrants attain legal status, everything changes.

Emerging from the shadowy underworld of illegal immigrants, legal immigrants
have become an integral part of the region's economy. With their coveted work
permits and Social Security numbers, they get jobs on the company payroll or
start their own businesses, all the while paying taxes and contributing to
Social Security.

Instead of sending all their money back home, they are investing in their
communities, buying houses and revitalizing decaying neighborhoods in
communities like Mamaroneck, New Rochelle, Port Chester and Yonkers.

The negative images that many people have about illegal immigrants would be
erased by a legalization program like the compromise measure under consideration
in the Senate. That plan would divide undocumented immigrants into three
categories, providing a route to citizenship for law-abiding, tax-paying workers
who speak English and have been in the United States for at least five years.

In many respects, the first category is similar to the program under which
Salvadorans and Guatemalans obtained legal permanent resident status. Those
Salvadorans and Guatemalans were required to show continuous residence for seven
years, ''good moral character'' -- a term of art that has helped root out
criminals by checking for misdemeanors and felonies -- and proof of tax
payments. Every applicant had to appear before an immigration official at the
New York Asylum Office in Rosedale, Queens. As I know from representing hundreds
of these applicants, approval rates are high, but the program is certainly not
an amnesty.

Temporary protected status is analogous to the second category, for those
undocumented immigrants who have been in the United States for two to five
years. These immigrants would qualify as guest workers but would have to leave
and re-enter the country to retain that status. They also would be required to
demonstrate good moral character.

Of course, there are those undocumented immigrants who do not qualify for
legalization -- the third category in the Senate plan. These immigrants are
unlikely to leave voluntarily and no president would order mass deportations.
Desperate migrants will always find a way to sneak in, no matter how many
billions of dollars are allocated to border security.

But at least it would be the first step to repair a system that simply no longer
works. If the metropolitan region's experience is any guide, the best solution
is legalization.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California City Council Rejects Anti-Immigration Legislation

BYLINE: By CINDY CHANG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: LAWS; Pg.
21

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: SAN BERNARDINO, Calif., May 15


The San Bernardino City Council declined on Monday to enact an initiative that
would punish city residents who hire or rent property to illegal immigrants,
setting the stage for a contentious special election.

The initiative was proposed by Joseph Turner, 29, an anti-immigration advocate
who told listeners in the packed council chambers that illegal immigrants were
turning American cities into ''third world cesspools.''

Immigrant rights lawyers called the initiative blatantly unconstitutional and
said they would sue if it were approved by voters. Officials of the city, about
60 miles east of Los Angeles, also questioned the legality of the proposal,
which they said would require them to take on immigration enforcement powers
reserved for the federal government.

''It turns ordinary residents into immigration agents, something they're neither
authorized nor trained to do,'' said Hector O. Villagra, a lawyer with the
American Civil Liberties Union.

In addition to denying city permits or contracts to anyone who employs illegal
immigrants, the initiative proposes fines of at least $1,000 for leasing
property to them. It also includes restrictions on hiring day laborers and would
make English the sole language of official city business.

''I got tired of illegal aliens invading our country and not assimilating,'' Mr.
Turner said. ''When they come to our country, they should adapt to our culture
and speak our language. That's it.''

Mr. Turner submitted his initiative to city officials on April 24 with over
3,000 supporting signatures. Under the city charter, an initiative with the
required number of signatures must be passed into law by the City Council or
sent to voters in a special election. A date for a special election has not been
set.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigration advocates in San Bernardino, Calif., yesterday.
(Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Passes Two Immigration Measures

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JIM RUTENBERG; Rachel L. Swarns contributed reporting
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


The Senate voted overwhelmingly on Wednesday to bar illegal immigrants convicted
of a felony or three misdemeanors from having a chance at citizenship and to add
hundreds of miles of fencing along the Mexican border.

The actions bolstered the law enforcement provisions of the Senate's immigration
overhaul, legislation that the White House has signaled it supports.

With conservatives in revolt over a proposal that would allow some illegal
immigrants to qualify for residency, the White House dispatched Karl Rove, the
president's political adviser, to a meeting of House Republicans to make the
case for the president's call for comprehensive changes in immigration laws.

House members said that Mr. Rove had made little headway and that most
Republicans remained adamantly opposed to any plan that leads to citizenship for
those unlawfully in the United States.

One House Republican also warned Mr. Rove that it was dangerous to work too
closely with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, one of the
authors of the Senate legislation.

Another Republican, J. D. Hayworth of Arizona, said of the divide between House
Republicans and the White House over citizenship and temporary foreign workers,
''This is a polite but profound disagreement.'' At a demonstration near the
Capitol on Wednesday afternoon, scores of immigrants chanted ''Work, yes!
Deportation, no!'' as they protested provisions in the Senate legislation.

They said the measure would impose new hardships on asylum seekers, expand the
deportation and detention of illegal immigrants and deny a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants who had been here for less than two years.

By a vote of 83 to 16, the Senate approved a proposal by Senator Jeff Sessions,
Republican of Alabama, to construct about 370 miles of ''triple layer'' fencing
on the Southwest border along with 500 miles of vehicle barriers.

Mr. Sessions said that type of fencing would cost about $3.2 million a mile, but
he said the cost would be offset by reductions in the expense of detaining and
processing people illegally crossing the border. The House has approved 700
miles of fencing.

''It is important for the country to make clear to our own citizens and to the
world that a lawful system is going to be created, that there is no longer an
open border,'' he said.

The Senate also agreed 99 to 0 to a proposal by two Republican senators, Jon Kyl
of Arizona and John Cornyn of Texas, that would deny potential citizenship to
convicted criminals and those who ignored deportation orders.

''I think it reflects the will of the American people that however we treat
people who are here illegally, there are some limits,'' Mr. Kyl said.

He said about 500,000 illegal aliens out of more than 11 million could come
under the plan, most for failing to comply with deportation demands.

The provision, initially seen as a proposal that could sink the Senate bill, was
narrowed to allow for family hardships and other exceptions. It was endorsed by
Democrats.

''We want to keep those who can harm us, the criminal element, out,'' Mr.
Kennedy said.

The Senate, on a 66-to-33 vote, defeated an effort by Senator David Vitter,
Republican of Louisiana, to kill a provision that would allow illegal immigrants
who meet certain qualifications and pay a fine and back taxes to seek
citizenship.

Mr. Vitter said the provision would result in illegal immigrants' ''being
treated better than the folks who have lived by the rules from the word go.'' He
said that amounted to amnesty.

Advocates of the Senate bill said critics were distorting it to stir opposition.
''The American people deserve an honest debate,'' said Senator Chuck Hagel,
Republican of Nebraska. ''Let's stop this nonsense.''

As the debate unfolded, the White House asserted that the president's speech on
Monday and efforts on Capitol Hill were paying dividends, if only small ones.

Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, pointed to remarks by Mr. Hagel
supporting the president's plan to send as many as 6,000 National Guard troops
to the border with Mexico. Mr. Hagel had been critical of the Guard proposal but
said he had warmed to it after hearing its particulars.

Pressed to name one Republican House member who had moved from the position that
the president's call for possible citizenship for some illegal immigrants --
namely, those here for many years who pay fines and back taxes -- amounted to
amnesty, Mr. Snow did not.

He said it would take time to define the meaning of ''amnesty.'' ''It's not
amnesty,'' Mr. Snow said. ''Amnesty means 'sorry, no harm, no foul, no crime, go
about your business.' ''

An indication of the difficulty facing the proposals came from Representative F.
James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin. Mr. Sensenbrenner, the
Judiciary Committee chairman, would take the lead for the House in efforts to
draft compromise legislation.

''Regardless of what the president says, what he is proposing is amnesty,'' Mr.
Sensenbrenner said.

On Wednesday night, President Bush took his case to an influential group of
party faithful during a speech at the Republican National Committee's annual
gala dinner in Washington.

''The Republican Party needs to lead on this issue of immigration,'' Mr. Bush
said. ''The immigration system is not working, and we need to do something about
it now. America can be a lawful society and a welcoming society.''

Mr. Hayworth, an outspoken critic of the president's approach, planned to travel
to Arizona on Air Force One with Mr. Bush on Thursday for an immigration event.
Mr. Hayworth, who attended the signing of the tax bill on Wednesday, said the
president had offered a playful warning about the trip and Mr. Hayworth's
opposition.

''He said, 'Hey, be careful over by the emergency exit at 30,000 feet,' '' Mr.
Hayworth recounted.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, From a Simmer to a Scream

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: BORDER WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


MAYBE it was the speech.

In January 2004, President Bush spoke at the White House on the nation's ragged
quilt of immigration laws. ''The system,'' he said, stating the obvious, ''is
not working.''

Although he never mentioned amnesty for illegal immigrants, that's what critics
heard when he said some temporary workers would be allowed to apply for
citizenship. In their minds, that speech was enough -- why should illegals be
given a free pass? -- and they exploded.

Immigration has always polarized America, and has been a simmering issue for
years. But the debate has reached a screaming pitch, fueled by talk-radio
invective, mass protests by immigrants and sometimes ugly debate over who
deserves to be an American.

Tensions were so high last week that President Bush unsuccessfully tried to calm
the waters in a prime-time address.

How did things get so bad? It's hard to define the turning point on any issue,
but in this case, everything leads back to the 2004 speech.

The president proposed what is in essence a compromise: a set of principles to
guide the remaking of the system, including tighter control of the Mexican
border and a limited form of amnesty for some illegal immigrants who have been
in the country for years.

President Bush didn't waiver much from that stance last week. But the outraged
reaction suggests that immigration is an issue like abortion -- one where both
sides are deeply entrenched, believing in their principles absolutely. And as
with abortion, nothing seems to galvanize one side of the immigration debate
more than the actions of the other side.

Before the president's speech two years ago, talk-radio hosts across the
Southwest had periodically railed at the real or imagined ''invasion'' of
illegal workers across the border. John Kobylt of ''The John and Ken Show'' on
KFI-AM in Los Angeles said illegal immigration had been an occasional topic of
his popular drive-time program.

''But that speech, where the president announced he was for amnesty, really set
us off,'' he said. ''Our listeners savaged their congressmen with calls and
e-mails, and it was running 1,000 to 1 against Bush's proposal.''

Though Mr. Bush's re-election campaign quickly focused on war, terrorism and gay
marriage, the immigration issue continued to boil, kept alive on talk radio and
by politicians in the border states that were struggling with the costs of
schools, clinics and jails for the millions of undocumented workers in their
states.

Toward the end of 2004, a citizen army known as the Minutemen arose to patrol a
border its organizers said had been surrendered to illegal immigrants. The
Minutemen staged their first border ''action'' near Tucson in April 2005,
drawing a few hundred volunteers in pickups and R.V.'s, armed chiefly with lawn
chairs and binoculars. They were trailed by hundreds of reporters from around
the globe who could not resist the tale of Wild West vigilantes. Arnold
Schwarzenegger, the California governor, praised their movement, and Lou Dobbs
of CNN began devoting hours on his evening program to what he calls broken
borders.

The Minutemen then faded from view, but others kept the issue alive.
Representative Duncan Hunter, a Republican from San Diego, declared that the
country was under siege and demanded money for a 15-foot-high wall to separate
the two countries.

In the summer of 2005, the governors of Arizona and New Mexico declared states
of emergency along the border, complaining that their repeated pleas for
additional Border Patrol officers and federal money to pay the costs of illegal
immigration had been ignored by Washington.

Bill Richardson, the Democratic governor of New Mexico and a supporter of
immigrant rights, said that border state governors do not have the luxury of
talking about immigration once every couple of years, when it seems politically
advantageous.

''This is a fundamental issue for us,'' he said in a telephone interview last
week. ''The states are bearing the brunt of the costs of this problem.''

Meanwhile, immigrants and their supporters in the labor movement, civil rights
groups and churches were on the defensive, but quietly planning. They supported
some elements of the president's plan, but there was little momentum in Congress
for comprehensive legislation on immigration.

Working at first behind the scenes, and without the megaphone of the media,
these forces created a coalition in favor of broader immigrant rights, including
eventual citizenship and access to schools, driver's licenses and health care.
The Service Employees Union International and Unite Here, representing garment,
hotel and restaurant workers, signed up workers and lobbied the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to
join the movement.

They had an ally in the business community, which for years had advocated a
relatively free flow of immigration to provide a steady source of low-wage
workers.

Their interests came together in a proposal last year by a bipartisan group of
senators led by Senators John McCain, the Arizona Republican, and Edward M.
Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat. It adopted some of Mr. Bush's principles,
including a guest-worker program and legalization of some illegal workers and
their families.

ALL seemed ready to go. Then Justice Sandra Day O'Connor retired; Chief Justice
William Rehnquist died. The Senate plan stalled as the Judiciary Committee
turned to the Supreme Court nominations.

Action shifted to the House in December, where a proposal by Representative
James Sensenbrenner, a longtime advocate for stricter immigration controls,
inflamed the pro-immigrant base in a way the Senate plan had not.

Mr. Sensenbrenner engineered the House passage of a clumsily drafted bill, known
as HR 4437, that would turn all illegal immigrants into felons and criminalize
aid to them by welfare or church workers. His name became a Spanish curse.

Mr. Sensenbrenner claims that his bill has been miscast, used to inflame Latinos
and their allies. He said the felony provision was a mistake and vowed to
correct it. He also said that Roman Catholic nuns did not have to demand a green
card before dishing out soup to a hungry immigrant.

''Sister Mary Margaret and Brother Rafael have nothing to worry about,'' Mr.
Sensenbrenner said in an interview. ''That's ridiculous and it's a red herring
used by people with an agenda.''

For immigrant-rights advocates, the Sensenbrenner measure was a gift.
Spanish-language disc jockeys took a page from right-wing radio and rallied
their audiences.

In Los Angeles, Eduardo Sotelo, who goes by the name El Piolin (Tweety Bird),
and Ricardo Sanchez, known as El Mandril (the Baboon), met with other disc
jockeys to turn out hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their supporters at
a Los Angeles rally in March and at a work and school boycott on May 1.

Other large pro-immigrant rallies took place across the country, spurred by
radio messages, union organizers and support from Catholic clergy.

Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a
civil rights group, said her organization and others had been trying for years
to win passage of an immigration bill including some elements of President
Bush's 2004 proposals.

What provided the spark for the giant rallies this spring that finally captured
the attention of the public? The Minutemen, the conservative talk-show hosts and
the Sensenbrenner bill, she said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Illustration by Joon Mo Kang
 photographs by Reuters, Getty Images, Associated Press, European Pressphoto
Agency, Agence France-Presse and Brad Doherty, Shannon Stapleton and Jeff
Topping for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Many Paths on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 122 words



To the Editor:

Re ''An Immigration Bottom Line'' (editorial, May 21):

Achieving consensus for immigration policies is proving even more intractable
than was true for campaign finance reforms. In both cases, most people believe
that new legislation will be circumvented no matter what Congress does.

In the long run, instead of pushing for one overall piece of comprehensive
legislation, it may be better to work for incremental changes on all aspects of
the problem.

Acting simultaneously at a federal, state or private level, we should work to
tighten border control, reduce incentives to hire undocumented immigrants,
enforce labor laws and improve the quality of life for all residents.

Murray J. Friedman
New York, May 21, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bad News on the Border

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 468 words


Something bad happened to the nation's debate over a serious reform of its
immigration laws.

It got hijacked yesterday by ''Border Vulnerabilities and International
Terrorism'' -- the first of many hearings that House Republican leaders plan to
hold around the country this summer, ostensibly to solicit public opinion about
immigration reform. The hearings are an effort to delay action on legislation
until after the November elections, and to drum up opposition to the Senate's
immigration bill, which focuses not only on border security but also on a path
to citizenship for qualified illegal immigrants.

This novel approach to governing -- seeking public input on bills after they
have passed -- reflects a cynical gamble that linking immigration and terror
will upend the Senate bill and give House Republicans a short-term electoral
boost.

The title gave the plot away. The hearing was useful only if the problem of
illegal immigration consists mainly of narco-traffickers who decapitate police
officers in Tijuana and send drugs in 18-wheelers across the border at Laredo,
or Islamic fundamentalists who sneak into the United States disguised as
Mexicans. ''It's probably already happened,'' said Sheriff Rick Flores of Webb
County, Texas, one of several witnesses who obliged the Republicans by depicting
life on the southern border as something out of a ''Mad Max'' movie.

There are, of course, very serious concerns about border violence and drug
trafficking. But they can never be dealt with effectively without the other
pillars of sensible immigration reform, the ones that House Republicans are
trying to undermine by stage-managing a specter of border chaos.

For now, they seem to have the upper hand. President Bush, who addressed the
nation in support of the Senate's approach to immigration reform, appears to be
backing away from it. Mr. Bush is now said to be open to compromising on an
''enforcement-first'' approach, under which any of the more complicated parts of
immigration reform would wait until the border was declared sealed, which could
be in a year or two, or never. Arlen Specter, a main architect of the Senate
bill, has sent similar hints about caving in to this approach, though he also
held a dueling hearing yesterday to counter the House Republicans' hard-line
message.

Mr. Bush has long talked a good game on the need for comprehensive immigration
reform and the foolishness of focusing only on border security. But he is now at
the head of a conga line moving backward. There was a moment in the immigration
debate, after months of negotiations and pitfalls, when an opportunity for real
progress appeared. It came when the Senate passed its bill.

That moment is fading. Unless Mr. Bush and others stand up to the fear-mongering
House, it may already be gone.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 8, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Threat of Terrorist Crossings Is Stressed at Border Hearing

BYLINE: By KAREN HASTINGS and JULIA PRESTON; Karen Hastings reported from
Laredo, Tex., for this article, and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex., July 7


Terrorists as well as illegal immigrants could slip across a southern United
States border that is porous and vulnerable, law enforcement and immigration
agents said Friday, as House Republicans took the debate over immigration
overhaul to the Texas-Mexico border.

At a hearing in this bustling port of entry on the Rio Grande, House Republicans
highlighted the threat of terrorist infiltration to justify their tough plan for
border enforcement and to suggest that a Senate immigration bill was weak on
security.

The hearing was the second to be led by Representative Ed R. Royce, Republican
of California and chairman of the House Subcommittee on International Terrorism
and Nonproliferation. House Republicans, facing an issue that has sharply
divided their party, have tried through the hearings to build public pressure on
the Senate to focus primarily on immigration enforcement. The first hearing was
on Monday in San Diego.

Senate proposals would ''tie the hands'' of local law enforcement officers in
working with immigration authorities, Mr. Royce said, and would require
consultation with Mexico over construction of a proposed border fence.

Sheriff Sigifredo Gonzalez Jr. of Zapata County, who has joined with 16 other
sheriffs in the Texas Border Sheriff's Coalition, said a smuggling
''infrastructure'' that brought illegal workers and illegal drugs into the
country could easily be exploited by terrorists.

A bill adopted by the House in December centers on security, calling for 700
miles of walls along the border and making it a crime to be in the United States
illegally. A Senate bill passed in May would create a guest worker program and a
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants while enhancing border enforcement.

Democrats on the panel participated in the hearings but denounced them as
divisive and called on the Republicans to address the immigration problem as a
whole. ''The purpose of these hearings is totally political,'' said
Representative Charlie Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas.

Outside the hotel where the hearing took place, a handful of protestors carried
signs reading ''Border Security Is National Security.'' Inside, whoops, applause
and an ''amen'' or two came from a clearly divided audience.

Reynaldo Garza, acting chief of the Border Patrol for the Laredo sector, said
that last year, agents in his area -- which stretches along 170 border miles --
caught illegal crossers from 70 countries other than Mexico, including some from
countries linked by the United States to terrorism. Chief Garza said that an
increase in Border Patrol officers alone would not stop the flow, and that more
remote sensors, video systems and unmanned surveillance aircraft were also
needed.

The sheriffs, seeking to avoid partisan debate, pleaded for federal action,
saying they were swamped with illegal immigrants and increasingly violent gang
members, drug runners and human smugglers.

''Our pleas for help are based largely on failures on the part of the U.S.
government,'' said Sheriff Rick Flores of Webb County. ''Many of our problems
are federally caused.''

A Mexican military ID card and a piece of Sudanese currency recently found
discarded along the border offer hints, Sheriff Flores said, that illegal
immigration has become more sophisticated. He described an episode in which
''black-clad men with duffel bags'' had surprised a group of quail hunters near
the border.

''This is not a partisan issue,'' he said. ''It's a red-white-and-blue issue.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curtis Collier, president of the advocacy group U.S. Border
Watch, protested yesterday outside a House hearing on immigration in Laredo,
Tex., the second in a series of sessions to be held throughout the summer.
(Photo by Eric Gay/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Deal in Colorado on Benefits for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By KATIE KELLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: DENVER, July 11


Colorado legislators have struck a compromise over illegal immigration law,
forging a deal that Democrats and Republicans said could be the most
far-reaching state overhaul in the country.

The law will restrict nonemergency benefits like food stamps, supplemental
security income and Medicaid to legal residents of Colorado who are 18 or older.
Children will be exempt from the law, which takes effect Aug. 1. Colorado has an
estimated 250,000 illegal immigrants.

Business owners will be required to provide proof that their workers have legal
immigration status.

The agreement, approved late Monday by the State House and Senate, which were
meeting in a special session, will also place two other measures on the ballot
in November, ensuring that immigration will remain a heated debate topic through
the summer.

One of the measures would allow the Colorado attorney general to sue the federal
government if existing federal immigration laws are not enforced. The other
measure would require businesses to confirm the legal status of their employees
to receive deductible business expenses.

Republicans had sought tighter rules and wanted to put all the measures before
voters. The deal puts some of the changes in place without a referendum.

Debate during the five-day session was often intense, with accusations of racism
among some lawmakers. The Senate president, Joan Fitz-Gerald, a Democrat, said
the issue transcended party politics.

''This goes beyond being a political problem; it's also a moral challenge to do
this correctly,'' Ms. Fitz-Gerald said.

The special session of the Legislature, where Democrats control both chambers,
was called by Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, after the State Supreme Court last
month removed an initiative from the November ballot on whether illegal
immigrants should be allowed to receive some state benefits. The ballot measure
was proposed by members of Defend Colorado Now, a group opposed to illegal
immigration, but was removed after the court said it was unconstitutional
because it dealt with more than one subject.

Across the nation, lawmakers have introduced more than 500 pieces of immigration
legislation this year, enacting 57 bills, according to the National Conference
of State Legislators.

''Collectively they are a strong statement of state interest and getting
something done on this issue,'' said Dan Stein, president of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a nonpartisan organization that follows national
immigration legislation and promotes stricter policies.

Mr. Stein stopped short of saying the overhaul was the toughest in the country,
saying, ''It's certainly one of the strongest bills passed out of state
legislature, but that's the best you could say.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After being called into special session by Gov. Bill Owens,
above, Colorado legislators reached a compromise yesterday regarding benefits
for illegal immigrants. The state has an estimated 250,000 such immigrants.
(Photo by David M. Barreda/Rocky Mountain News, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

At Hearing on Immigration, Not All Is as Planned

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18


A hearing before a House subcommittee on Tuesday was supposed to highlight
conservative support for House Republicans' position on immigration legislation.
But the results were decidedly mixed.

The panel had lined up four witnesses to voice backing for a House-passed bill
focusing on border security and making it a crime for illegal immigrants to be
in the United States.

But though expressing support for the legislation, one witness, the Christian
conservative advocate Phyllis Schlafly, devoted most of her testimony to her
assertion that President Bush had betrayed Americans by supporting a rival
Senate bill that offers a route to citizenship for most illegal immigrants
already in the country; the House measure has no such provision.

Another witness, Representative Silvestre Reyes, a Texas Democrat who was called
because he served in the Border Patrol for 26 years, dismissed the hearing as
''a waste of time,'' saying the Republican-led Congress had repeatedly failed to
provide enough money for border enforcement.

And one Republican on the subcommittee, Representative Jeff Flake of Arizona,
who had sponsored a measure closer to the Senate version, called the session a
''faux hearing'' at a time when, he said, the two houses should be in
negotiations to reconcile their differing approaches.

In her testimony, before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Border
Security and Claims, Ms. Schlafly accused Mr. Bush of lying to voters by
maintaining that the Senate bill was not a grant of amnesty like one that
Congress adopted in 1986. ''The American people are not willing to be cheated
again,'' she said.

Ms. Schlafly and two other witnesses who support the House bill -- Steven A.
Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, and James
R. Edwards Jr. of the Hudson Institute -- also sought to allay concerns that the
measure would lead to mass deportations. A fear of such roundups was one factor
prompting two major protests by immigrants this spring.

''Nobody is calling for deporting large numbers of people,'' Ms. Schlafly said
under questioning by Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California.

Ms. Schlafly said the House was likely to revise its bill to make illegal
presence in the country a misdemeanor rather than a felony. Illegal immigrants
would be forced out of their jobs, she said, but there would not be wholesale
enforcement of the legislation if it was enacted.

Mr. Camarota said the House goal was ''attrition'': cutting illegal immigrants
off from American jobs and society so they will eventually deport themselves.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2006



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about a hearing
on immigration before a House subcommittee referred incorrectly to the
participation of one of the four witnesses. While the witness, Representative
Silvestre Reyes, a Texas Democrat, favors increasing border security, he was not
expected to voice support for a border security bill that the House passed in
December. He voted against the bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rebooting the Peons

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 553 words


Americans searching for signs of progress on immigration reform this summer will
have to hunt in a thicket of discouraging developments. After wasting weeks with
hearings that have no purpose but to trash the Senate's immigration bill and to
boost their party at the polls, House Republican leaders have scheduled 21 more
hearings from late July into September. This marathon of doing nothing mocks the
voters who say they want action on immigration this year and shows how President
Bush has failed to lead Congress and the nation toward the reform he says he so
badly wants.

The only hint of motion in this stagnant pond was the unveiling of a new
immigration bill this week by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and
Representative Mike Pence of Indiana. The bill distills into one noxious package
what hard-line Republicans stand for, and shows how pulled they are between one
faction that wants to harass and expel illegal immigrants and another that is
desperate to keep hiring them on the cheap.

Hutchison-Pence defers to the Republican wing that is fixated on expelling
millions of illegal immigrants. None of its provisions for workers would take
effect until the president declared the border sealed. People who came here
illegally would have to leave and get in line at ''Ellis Island centers'' in
Mexico and Central America to apply for special work visas for whatever jobs
might await them.

The visas would entitle immigrants to spend two years as peons, eligible to work
but not to receive social services. Their Medicare payroll deductions would
disappear into a fund to reimburse hospitals for emergency care of foreigners.
Social Security deductions would be refundable only when an immigrant left the
program (and the country).

The two-year visas could be renewed for up to 12 years. After that, a worker
could apply for another visa and work five more years. After that 17-year
odyssey, immigrants would theoretically be eligible for permanent residency. But
the bill does not raise the number of green cards for unskilled workers -- now
about 5,000, a droplet in the sea of 500,000 people who cross the border each
year. It's a hypothetical path to citizenship that ends cruelly at a brick wall.

The bill has plenty of other crippling flaws, including many offensive
provisions from the House's enforcement-only immigration bill.

Mr. Pence says it gives illegal immigrants a chance to leave the country and
enter the right way -- to ''reboot,'' in other words. But that is a corrupting
obfuscation, just like the theft of those golden words ''Ellis Island'' for what
amounts to a shabby back door to indentured servitude. There is a better way to
solve the immigration problem. It involves taking inspiration from American
values of fairness, practicality and openness to newcomers. It means recognizing
that a hidden nation of 12 million immigrants will not deport itself, and that
even a hyper-militarized border will not control the flow unless there is also a
plan to give real opportunity, with dignity, to those willing to work hard for
it.

The raw materials of such a solution lie in the Senate's flawed but fixable
immigration bill. We keep waiting for President Bush to demand that Republican
leaders stop the delays, distractions and semantic charades and hammer out the
repairs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. in Senate Narrows Immigration Focus to 700-Mile Fence

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Julia Preston contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 994 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20


Senate Republicans formally put aside a broad immigration overhaul sought by
President Bush on Wednesday and decided instead to press ahead with narrower
bills to require building 700 miles of fence on the southwestern border.

Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, said the fate of millions
of illegal immigrants already in the United States had become a ''fundamental
sticking point'' in trying to reach agreement with the House on a broad bill.

Mr. Frist said the fence proposal, which the House has passed, was the best
alternative if lawmakers wanted to salvage some immigration changes before the
Nov. 7 elections.

''Let's focus on a problem the American people understand,'' the senator said,
''and that is, we have hundreds of thousands of people coming across our border
every year into our country.''

He added that the broad measure could be considered when Congress returned in
mid-November or next year.

The Senate voted, 94 to 0, to debate the measure on fencing and other border
barriers at the cost of billions of dollars. But the fate of even that measure
is unclear, because members of both parties have reservations, and Mr. Frist may
need to block any amendments if he wants to deliver it to Mr. Bush before
Congress adjourns next week.

The fence represents one element of the broad bipartisan measure that the Senate
approved in May after Mr. Bush had delivered a prime-time address calling for
sweeping changes in immigration law, including allowing some illegal immigrants
to earn citizenship. House Republicans, fearing a backlash from the right,
refused to consider any bill that could be called amnesty for illegal
immigrants.

The two chambers never formally opened negotiations to reconcile the Senate bill
with a strict border enforcement measure that the House approved in December.

Republican backers of the broad Senate approach suggested that the party could
be penalized at the polls for not pursuing a comprehensive solution.

''It is one of the greatest problems facing the country today,'' Senator Arlen
Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said. ''For the Republicans not to produce is not good. Perhaps we
will find a little better mood in the lame-duck session.''

Other Republicans said constituents were demanding that the government do a much
better job of sealing borders before considering other aspects of an immigration
overhaul like a temporary-worker program, new penalties for businesses that
employ illegal immigrants and possible citizenship.

''This is putting the horse before the cart,'' Senator Rick Santorum, Republican
of Pennsylvania, said about moving ahead with just the fence proposal.

The House passed its fence bill last week and is considering other enforcement
measures this week in an effort to show that lawmakers are making progress on
immigration. On Wednesday, the House voted, 228 to 196, to require voters to
show proof of citizenship, a step that Republicans said would limit illegal
immigrants' voting.

Democratic critics said requiring government-issued identification would amount
to a modern poll tax that would discourage minorities and older Americans from
voting. The House and Senate have previously voted in favor of building barriers
along the border with Mexico. The proposal calls for two strips of concrete
separated by a road along with cameras and other surveillance equipment at five
locations. ''I'm convinced that physical barriers at the border, fencing in
particular, are important,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama.

Mr. Sessions said he was worried that Congress might approve the fence but not
provide the money to build it. The Senate had previously added $1.8 billion to a
Pentagon spending measure for the fence, a bill that is pending.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said the fence could cost
$7 billion or more.

''We can build the tallest fence in the world, and it won't fix our broken
immigration system,'' Mr. Reid said. ''To do that, we need the kind of
comprehensive reform that the Senate passed earlier this year.''

The fence measure, which may not come to a vote in the Senate until next week,
is drawing scrutiny from some border-state Republicans who worry that it would
impose too many requirements on local governments involving locating the fence.

Senator Larry E. Craig, Republican of Idaho, is considering offering a plan to
allow more agricultural workers to enter the country. Mr. Craig said a
continuing crackdown on illegal immigrants along the Mexican border was leaving
growers in the West short of workers.

''Fruit is not being picked; vegetables are not being harvested,'' Mr. Craig
said.

A bipartisan group recommended on Wednesday overhauling the immigration system
to make it more responsive to the demands of the labor market. After more than a
year of research, the group recommended creating expedited visas for workers of
all skill levels who have legal employment offers.

The group was led by former Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, a Republican who
is also a former senator from Michigan, and former Representative Lee H.
Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who was vice chairman of the Sept. 11 Commission.

The director of the bipartisan group was Doris M. Meissner, who was commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service under President Bill Clinton.

Throwing its support behind proposals passed by the Senate, the group called for
''an earned path to permanent legal status'' for an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants now living in the United States as ''an essential element'' of
reform.

The panel called for federal aid to states to allay the costs of the
legalization program, and it called on the White House to name an immigration
coordinator and to focus on disrupting terrorists' travel with the same vigor it
had brought to tracking terrorists' communications and finances.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Frist speaking on immigration, with, from right, Jim DeMint
of South Carolina, Johnny Isakson of Georgia and Jeff Sessions of Alabama.
(Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 26, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Reform, in Pieces

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 559 words


This can't be what President Bush had in mind when he gave a prime-time speech
about immigration in May. ''An immigration reform bill needs to be
comprehensive,'' he told the nation, ''because all elements of this problem must
be addressed together, or none of them will be solved at all.''

That was then. Now we have the Republican-controlled House passing a
pre-election lineup of narrow enforcement measures packaged to give voters a
false impression of resolve. Mr. Bush has even given up talking a good game on
immigration: he says he will sign the Republican legislation as a ''first step''
toward the real reform he has said he wants but has done depressingly little to
achieve.

Republican leaders want you to think they are hard at work overhauling the
broken immigration system in the last days before going home. But don't be
fooled by the noise and dust. These are piecemeal rehashes of legislation the
House passed last December. They include a 700-mile border fence that would cost
more than $2 billion and would not work, and tough-sounding but profoundly
undemocratic bills that would allow the indefinite detention of some illegal
immigrants seeking asylum, make it easier to deport people without judicial
review, and require voters to prove citizenship before participating in federal
elections. The latter measure attacks an imaginary problem -- voting fraud by
illegal immigrants -- and would disenfranchise countless Americans who are old
and poor.

Among the most poisonous provisions is one that would give state and local
police agencies authority to enforce federal immigration laws. Police
departments big and small have bristled at the idea, saying they lack the
expertise and the resources to enforce immigration law. They say it would
cripple crime fighting by severing hard-won relationships with potential victims
and witnesses: immigrants who will end up fearing and avoiding them.

But for every police chief who sees this as a foolish attack on law enforcement,
there is a sheriff or local politician, like Steve Levy, the Suffolk County
executive on Long Island, who is just itching to seize control of his or her own
little corner of the immigration battlefield. It's an every-mayor-for-himself
approach that would only worsen the ad hoc incoherence of the national
immigration system.

Once again it's up to the Senate to resist the restrictionist free-for-all.
Republicans have been trying to make this difficult by seeking to slip their
toxic measures into must-pass bills for the Homeland Security and Defense
Departments. The senators who have held out for comprehensive reform, which
includes giving immigrants a realistic way to work and get right with the law,
must stick together to defeat the House campaign.

The House's election hunt for border-security sound bites shows how susceptible
to demagoguery the debate can be. Anti-immigrant fervor is a flame that spreads
easily. But leadership can help people look beyond resentment and fear. Once
upon a time, Mr. Bush was a sense-talking governor from a border state who
understood this. Now he has joined the leaders of his party in calling on the
nation to cower behind electric fences, searchlights and squad cars. It's
painful to see what he has turned into, and frustrating, in these days of
immigration panic, to keep waiting for a real leader to emerge.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Immigration Protests, Goal Is Still Elusive

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New
York for this article, and Rachel L. Swarns from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2


The nascent immigrant rights movement showed on Monday that it could build an
organization, mobilize hundreds of thousands of people across the country and
wield economic power.

But the protesters do not appear to have achieved their primary goal: changing
votes in Congress. And some critics say the demonstration may have generated a
backlash, hardening positions on Capitol Hill.

The protests, which began in March and resumed on Monday with a boycott of work,
school and shops, have clearly grabbed the nation's attention when the issue of
illegal immigration is high on the agenda in Washington.

The heightened attention will make it difficult for Congress to duck the
question of what to do with the estimated 11 million to 12 million people living
illegally in the United States. Although the outpouring has drawn comparisons to
the civil rights movement of the 1960's, questions remain about whether the
protesters can translate their passion into political results.

Some companies closed on Monday, yet it is too early to assess the economic
effects of the boycott. The effects were diminished because many workers
notified their employers ahead of time that they planned to take the day off.

''This was a one-day deal,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president of the United
States Chamber of Congress, which supports bills to legalize immigrants. ''If
immigrants decided to abandon their jobs for two weeks, that would definitely
have an impact.''

Some advocates who support ''comprehensive immigration reform,'' the idea that
illegal workers should be put on a path to citizenship, say the protests have
given that concept an important lift in the debate on Capitol Hill.

Even some immigrant rights backers say few if any minds were changed and called
the marches a Rorschach test in which people simply saw their own view reflected
in the sea of mostly Latino marchers.

''I have no effective data on this, but it has probably hardened positions and
maybe done a little bit of wedging,'' said Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, a
Democrat and former senator who said he supported the protesters' cause. ''I
think that the people that were really fired up about this still are, and the
position that they had to start with, they still carry.''

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said: ''The protest, I don't
think, changes votes on the floor of the Senate. I think what changes votes is
coming down, sitting down, talking about it, as opposed to students' staying out
of school. I happen to think that students' staying out of school is
counterproductive.''

The protesters have discovered that there is a thin and potentially dangerous
line between promoting national pride and pushing opponents' buttons. They used
tactics -- flying the Mexican flag, recording ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' in
Spanish -- that have left even some supporters feeling a bit queasy.

''I have a great respect for a lot of the people that did the protesting, but I
think their message is all confused,'' said Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican
of New Mexico, whose sympathy dates from his childhood, when his mother, an
Italian immigrant, was nearly deported. ''The flag, the anthem, all that, it got
everybody all mixed up. 'Take off work' -- it sounded wrong to some people,
right to others.''

The public is deeply divided on illegal immigration. A survey in March by the
Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, found that 53
percent of respondents said people who were in the United States illegally
should be required to go home and that 40 percent say the immigrants should be
granted some kind of legal status that allows them to stay here.

''What buttons were pressed?'' Roberto Suro, the director of the center, asked,
wondering aloud about what Americans saw when they looked at the protesters.
''Was it that there are so many people here outside of government control or was
it the hard-working family types? I think that's really imponderable.''

That divide is reflected among Republicans on Capitol Hill. The House opposes
giving citizenship to illegal immigrants, and it has passed a bill aimed only at
controlling the borders, while a more comprehensive Senate bill is backed by
Republicans like Mr. Domenici, as well as Senators Lindsay Graham of South
Carolina, Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, John McCain of Arizona, and Mel Martinez of
Florida.

Some say the protests have given the Senate approach a boost. ''While you could
never point to a specific vote, they moved the tone and the thrust where now a
balanced bill has the upper hand, and it's in part because of the protests,''
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said.

The Senate bill collapsed last month amid partisan bickering on procedure, but
the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, says he wants to resume the
debate this month. On Tuesday, the minority leader, Senator Harry Reid of
Nevada, offered to limit the debate to 10 amendments a side. Mr. Frist did not
accept that, and they continued talks. The Republican split is complicated
because not just the immigrants are weighing in. Among their biggest allies are
employers, large and small, who want assurances that they will continue to have
that labor pool. Business groups are important for the Republican base, and many
employers gave immigrant employees the day off on Monday in solidarity with the
marchers.

With Republicans so divided, reaching consensus will be difficult.

''Obviously, there's tremendous pressure on lawmakers to fix the problem,'' said
Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy
group. ''The marches in the street, the public opinion polls that show
immigration is one of the top two or three issues in the country.

''But the crosscurrents of politics and policy are such that it's going to take
a tremendous push from President Bush and from Democratic and Republican leaders
to get this done.''

It is clear that the protests have raised some hackles. After the March rally,
Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said he was deeply offended by
marchers' waving the Mexican flag.

''I want to be sensitive to human concerns, why they're here and how they're
here. But when they act out like that, they lose me,'' Mr. Lott said.

He suggested a risk of deportation and said, ''We had them all in a bunch, you
know what I mean?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerardo Guzman of Sumner, Wash., watching an immigration
demonstration on Monday in Seattle. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York
Times)
 A rally being held on Monday on Union Square in Manhattan. (Photo by Uli Seit
for The New York Times)(pg. A23)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Illusions

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 843 words


President Bush's speech from the Oval Office last night was not a blueprint for
comprehensive immigration reform. It was a victory for the fear-stricken fringe
of the debate.

These are the people who say illegal border crossings must be stopped
immediately, with military boots in the desert sand. Never mind the overwhelming
burdens of Iraq and Afghanistan, the absence of a coherent and balanced
immigration policy, and the broad public support for a comprehensive solution.
America must send its overtaxed troops to the border right now, they say, so a
swarm of ruthless, visa-less workers cannot bury our way of life under a
relentless onslaught of hard work.

Rather than standing up for truth, Mr. Bush swiveled last night in the direction
of those who see immigration, with delusional clarity, as entirely a problem of
barricades and bad guys. His plan to deploy ''up to 6,000'' National Guard
troops to free the Border Patrol to hunt illegal immigrants is a model of stark
simplicity, one sure to hearten the Minuteman vigilantes, frightened conspiracy
theorists, English-only Latinophobes, right-wing radio and TV personalities, and
members of Congress who have no patience for sorting out the various and mixed
blessings that surging immigration has given this country.

Those on the other side of the argument have spent frustrating months making a
quieter, more complicated case. Supporters of a compromise immigration bill in
the Senate want a balanced approach that is both tough and smart. They, too,
would add people and technology to enhance security on the Mexican border, which
is now about as solid as a screen door. But unlike the House bill, which is
fixated on enforcement, the Senate bill seeks to restore law and order in a
variety of ways. It would, for example, shorten an immigration backlog by
adjusting work and family visa quotas, tighten the enforcement of immigration
laws in the workplace, and put illegal workers on a path to assimilation and
citizenship.

Mr. Bush gave lip service to aspects of comprehensive reform, but that part of
his message was, as usual, delivered with a mumbling lack of conviction. He
denounced ''amnesty'' again, but did not speak up forcefully enough for a
citizenship path for the 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants who, in
huge national marches in recent weeks, have made their hunger to assimilate
powerfully clear.

Some say Mr. Bush's proposal is simply a tough act to distract the mob so he can
get to the real business of comprehensive reform. But endorsing the Minuteman
argument only emboldens hard-liners. Representative Charlie Norwood of Georgia,
a state that is leading the nation in trying to remove all the offending
noncitizen parts from its economic engine, wrote just before Mr. Bush's speech
that he could envision using 36,000 to 50,000 troops to seal the border. The job
could be done ''by Memorial Day at the latest,'' he contended.

Mr. Bush's speech could be dismissed as a mere distraction. But it is worse than
that because the best hope of reform, the Senate bill being debated this week,
is under fire from the very forces Mr. Bush is trying to appease.

That legislation is built around a solid core -- a bill from Senators John
McCain and Edward Kennedy -- but in recent months it has morphed into something
that is far more complicated and problematic. It's encrusted with new provisions
intended to placate the enforcement-only hard-liners by ensuring that an
immigrant's path to legality would be anything but quick and easy. Some hurdles
are innocuous time-wasters, but others are so onerous and cumbersome that they
might put the whole business at risk.

The Senate bill is also cruelly inadequate in giving due process to those
accused of violating immigration laws. Its reliance on guest workers should be
met with wariness. The United States is not an Arab emirate. It does not ennoble
our democratic experiment by importing a second-class society of worker bees who
are vulnerable to exploitation and have little incentive to adopt our values. If
there must be guest workers, there must also be a path so they, too, can seek
citizenship if they choose. Mr. Bush last night specifically -- and shamefully
-- urged that such a path be denied to temporary workers.

The core principle energizing and legitimizing immigration reform must be that
of citizenship. Ultimately, only those who are full stakeholders in America will
put down roots here. Only those whose right to stay cannot be challenged or
revoked will be bold enough to insist upon their rights.

It is still possible that a good bill will emerge this year, but only if
Democrats and moderate Republicans hold firm to protect the fragile flame of
good sense against the deter-and-deport crowd. This means sticking together to
defeat destructive amendments on the Senate floor. It means overcoming this
latest contribution from the ever-unhelpful president, who could have pointed
the nation toward serious immigration reform last night, but instead struck a
pose as Minuteman in chief.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Amnesty by Any Other Name

BYLINE: By Edwin Meese III.

Edwin Meese III, a fellow at the Heritage Foundation, was the attorney general
of the United States from 1985 to 1988.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


IN the debate over immigration, ''amnesty'' has become something of a dirty
word. Some opponents of the immigration bill being debated in the Senate assert
that it would grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants. Supporters claim
it would do no such thing. Instead, they say, it lays out a road map by which
illegal aliens can earn citizenship.

Perhaps I can shed some light. Two decades ago, while serving as attorney
general under President Ronald Reagan, I was in the thick of things as Congress
debated the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The situation today
bears uncanny similarities to what we went through then.

In the mid-80's, many members of Congress -- pushed by the Democratic majority
in the House and the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy --
advocated amnesty for long-settled illegal immigrants. President Reagan
considered it reasonable to adjust the status of what was then a relatively
small population, and I supported his decision.

In exchange for allowing aliens to stay, he decided, border security and
enforcement of immigration laws would be greatly strengthened -- in particular,
through sanctions against employers who hired illegal immigrants. If jobs were
the attraction for illegal immigrants, then cutting off that option was crucial.

Beyond this, most illegal immigrants who could establish that they had resided
in America continuously for five years would be granted temporary resident
status, which could be upgraded to permanent residency after 18 months and,
after another five years, to citizenship.

Note that this path to citizenship was not automatic. Indeed, the legislation
stipulated several conditions: immigrants had to pay application fees, learn to
speak English, understand American civics, pass a medical exam and register for
military selective service. Those with convictions for a felony or three
misdemeanors were ineligible. Sound familiar? These are pretty much the same
provisions included in the new Senate proposal and cited by its supporters as
proof that they have eschewed amnesty in favor of earned citizenship.

The difference is that President Reagan called this what it was: amnesty.
Indeed, look up the term ''amnesty'' in Black's Law Dictionary, and you'll find
it says, ''the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act provided amnesty for
undocumented aliens already in the country.''

Like the amnesty bill of 1986, the current Senate proposal would place those who
have resided illegally in the United States on a path to citizenship, provided
they meet a similar set of conditions and pay a fine and back taxes. The illegal
immigrant does not go to the back of the line but gets immediate legalized
status, while law-abiding applicants wait in their home countries for years to
even get here. And that's the line that counts. In the end, slight differences
in process do not change the overriding fact that the 1986 law and today's bill
are both amnesties.

There is a practical problem as well: the 1986 act did not solve our illegal
immigration problem. From the start, there was widespread document fraud by
applicants. Unsurprisingly, the number of people applying for amnesty far
exceeded projections. And there proved to be a failure of political will in
enforcing new laws against employers.

After a six-month slowdown that followed passage of the legislation, illegal
immigration returned to normal levels and continued unabated. Ultimately, some
2.7 million people were granted amnesty, and many who were not stayed anyway,
forming the nucleus of today's unauthorized population.

So here we are, 20 years later, having much the same debate and being offered
much the same deal in exchange for promises largely dependent on the will of
future Congresses and presidents.

Will history repeat itself? I hope not. In the post-9/11 world, secure borders
are vital. We have new tools -- like biometric technology for identification,
and cameras, sensors and satellites to monitor the border -- that make
enforcement and verification less onerous. And we can learn from the failed
policies of the past.

President Bush and Congress would do better to start with securing the border
and strengthening enforcement of existing immigration laws. We might also try
improving on Ronald Reagan's idea of a pilot program for genuinely temporary
workers.

The fair and sound policy is to give those who are here illegally the
opportunity to correct their status by returning to their country of origin and
getting in line with everyone else. This, along with serious enforcement and
control of the illegal inflow at the border -- a combination of incentives and
disincentives -- will significantly reduce over time our population of illegal
immigrants.

America welcomes more immigrants than any other country. But in keeping open
that door of opportunity, we also must uphold the rule of law and enhance a fair
immigration process, as Ronald Reagan said, to ''humanely regain control of our
borders and thereby preserve the value of one of the most sacred possessions of
our people: American citizenship.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legalize or Bust

BYLINE: By David M. Sperling.

David M. Sperling is an immigration lawyer.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: Huntington Station


AS the national debate over illegal immigration reaches a fever pitch, it may
come as a surprise to learn that legalization of undocumented immigrants from
Latin America has been under way on Long Island for more than 15 years.

Special immigration programs starting in 1991 have provided work permits and
green cards to tens of thousands of Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans on
Long Island. Their integration into the region's economy provides a glimpse of
how legalization could transform the nation.

The greater metropolitan area is unusual because its immigrant population is
overwhelmingly Central American, not Mexican. Unlike Mexicans, Central Americans
have been the beneficiaries of some of the country's most generous immigration
policies.

Refugees fleeing guerrilla wars and natural catastrophes in El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras streamed onto Long Island starting in the 1980's. After
applying for political asylum or temporary protected status, they were able to
obtain work permits, Social Security cards and driver's licenses.

Salvadorans -- by far the largest immigrant group on Long Island -- have been
the beneficiaries of two separate protected-status programs, first in 1991 and
again in 2001 after devastating earthquakes in their homeland.

The latest program, recently extended for another year, has alone resulted in
the legalization, albeit temporary, of more than 25,000 Salvadorans living on
Long Island. Hondurans living in the United States since 1998 were also eligible
for temporary protected status after Hurricane Mitch, and their status has
recently been extended to July 2007.

A 1997 law called the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, has
led to legal permanent resident status for more than 12,000 Salvadorans and
Guatemalans on Long Island. Thousands more Hispanic immigrants have obtained
green cards through work, marriage and family relationships.

When immigrants attain legal status, everything changes.

Emerging from the shadowy underworld of the estimated 125,000 illegal immigrants
on Long Island, legal immigrants have become an integral part of the region's
economy. With their coveted work permits and Social Security numbers, they get
jobs on the company payroll or start their own businesses, all the while paying
taxes and contributing to Social Security.

Instead of sending all their money back home, they are investing in their
communities, buying houses and revitalizing decaying neighborhoods in
communities like Bay Shore, Brentwood, Hempstead, Huntington Station and
Patchogue.

The negative images that many people have about illegal immigrants would be
erased by a legalization program like the compromise measure under consideration
in the Senate. That plan would divide undocumented immigrants into three
categories, providing a route to citizenship for law-abiding, tax-paying workers
who speak English and have been in the United States for at least five years.

In many respects, the first category is similar to the programs under which
Salvadorans and Guatemalans obtained legal permanent resident status. Those
Salvadorans and Guatemalans were required to show continuous residence for seven
years, ''good moral character'' -- a term of art that has helped root out
criminals by checking for misdemeanors and felonies -- and proof of tax
payments. Every applicant had to appear before an immigration official at the
New York Asylum Office in Rosedale, Queens. As I know from representing hundreds
of these applicants, approval rates are high, but the program is certainly not
an amnesty.

Temporary protected status is analogous to the second category, for those
undocumented immigrants who have been in the United States for two to five
years. These immigrants would qualify as guest workers but would have to leave
and re-enter the country to retain that status. They also would be required to
demonstrate good moral character.

Of course, there are those undocumented immigrants who do not qualify for
legalization -- the third category in the Senate plan. These immigrants are
unlikely to leave voluntarily and no president would order mass deportations.
Desperate migrants will always find a way to sneak in, no matter how many
billions of dollars are allocated to border security.

But at least it would be the first step to repair a system that simply no longer
works. If Long Island's experience is any guide, the best solution is
legalization.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 9, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Proposals on Illegal Immigration Largely Falter

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1409 words


Lawmakers in dozens of state legislatures, impatient with Congress's lack of
action to overhaul immigration law, have proposed hundreds of measures on the
issue this year, most aimed at restricting illegal immigrants' access to public
benefits and drivers' licenses.

But few bills to clamp down on illegal immigration have made it into law,
meeting determined resistance from unlikely alliances uniting Latino community
groups and civil liberties advocates with law enforcement officials and local
chambers of commerce.

The array of state initiatives reflect uneasiness among voters across the
country about the growing presence of illegal immigrants, especially in states
-- like North Carolina, Tennessee, Colorado and Arizona -- where immigrant
populations have surged in recent years.

''It was a way to wake up the federal government to do something, after they let
down the entire country on illegal immigration,'' said Steve Gallardo, a
Democratic state representative in Arizona, where the Legislature has been
battling nonstop on the issue since January.

So far this year, no fewer than 461 bills related to immigration have been
offered in the 43 states where legislatures have been in session, according to a
survey by Ann Morse of the nonpartisan National Conference of State
Legislatures.

Proposals have been offered to bar immigrants who cannot prove legal status from
obtaining nonemergency health benefits, in-state rates of tuition and financial
aid for college, and unemployment assistance. A host of bills sought to ensure
that workers had legal documents and to enforce sanctions against employers who
hired illegal immigrants. Other measures proposed authorizing local and state
police agencies to enforce federal immigration laws.

One of the most significant bills to win passage was in Georgia, which adopted a
broad measure barring illegal immigrants from many state benefits, requiring
employers to verify the status of workers and mandating that jailers alert
federal officials to anyone incarcerated who is in the country illegally.

But a count compiled by Ms. Morse last week found that only 19 measures had been
enacted nationwide, and just 12 of them imposed on illegal immigrants any
restrictions that were significant.

''There were a slew of punitive measures introduced across the country,'' said
Tanya Broder, a lawyer in Oakland, Calif., with the National Immigration Law
Center, which promotes immigrant rights and monitors legislation on the issue.
''But most of them either failed upon consideration by legislatures, or were
narrowed to the point where they are largely symbolic.''

In Tennessee, which the Pew Hispanic Center estimates is home to 100,000 or more
illegal immigrants, at least 20 immigration bills have been introduced in the
last year. The resulting clash centered on a drivers' certificate the state
created in May 2004, which authorized illegal immigrants who lived there to
drive but which could not be used as an identity document for any other purpose.

Gov. Phil Bredesen, a Democrat, suspended the program in February after the
arrest of a Knoxville resident who had been ferrying in illegal immigrants from
New Jersey. She had been allowing them to use her address to obtain certificates
so that they might try to drive in other states.

Republican lawmakers led a campaign to cancel the certificate outright and
impose other curbs on illegal immigrants. ''We're a country where people all
their lives have to obey the laws,'' said State Senator Bill Ketron, a leader of
the effort. ''Those who come here illegally don't pay any attention to those
laws. That's what's dividing our country right now.''

But the campaign ran up against concerted opposition from an alliance of groups
that had gained lobbying skills in defending the certificate program.

Stephen Fotopulos, policy director for one such group, the Tennessee Immigrant
and Refugee Rights Coalition, said, ''There's a lot of frustration in our state
with the broken federal immigration system, and people unfortunately have
decided that anti-immigrant rhetoric will be politically advantageous.''

Although the certificate program remains suspended, the attempts to cancel it
were defeated. But one of Senator Ketron's bills, requiring that the drivers'
license examination be given only in English, passed the Senate and is still
moving forward in the lower house.

In New Mexico, Gov. Bill Richardson, a Democrat, declared a state of emergency
last year because of growing violence at the Mexican border, but efforts to
revoke a state law that allows illegal immigrants to obtain drivers' licenses
were beaten back.

Immigrant rights groups forged alliances with local sheriffs and businesses
three years ago to win enactment of that law, which permits applicants for
drivers' licenses to present alternative forms of identification if they have no
Social Security or visa number.

''We worked hard building those relations with law enforcement,'' said Marcela
Diaz, director of Somos un Pueblo Unido (We Are a United People), a group that
spearheaded those efforts. ''When it comes to passing these laws, we face no
strong organized opposition.''

In Virginia, where the Pew center estimates 250,000 illegal immigrants live,
some 40 immigration measures have been offered this year. Most have sought to
expand on restrictions in a bill enacted in March 2005 that bars illegal
immigrants from state benefits including Medicaid and welfare. But so far only
one new measure has passed, ordering law enforcement officials to report illegal
immigrant minors who commit serious crimes to federal immigration authorities.

In Virginia elections last November, Republican candidates trumpeted plans to
get tough on illegal immigration. But some discovered that the issue had
unexpected wrinkles.

One of them, State Senator Emmett W. Hanger Jr., was a prime mover of the 2005
bill. This year he offered a proposal to deny in-state college tuition to
illegal immigrant students -- with some important exceptions. His proposal would
make those students eligible if they had graduated from Virginia high schools
and were seeking to become United States citizens, and if their parents had been
living and paying taxes in the state for three years.

Mr. Hanger said he drafted the exemptions after legislative hearings where one
witness, an illegal immigrant student, had just returned from a military tour in
Iraq.

To his surprise, many of Mr. Hanger's Republican allies from the 2005
legislative fight deserted him over the new bill, maintaining that he was
encouraging lawbreakers.

''But I picked up some new friends,'' he said, among liberal groups that
mobilized behind his cause.

The most contentious debates have probably been in Arizona.

In November 2004, the voters there led the nation on restrictive measures by
adopting a ballot initiative, Proposition 200, that barred illegal immigrants
from receiving taxpayer-financed health and welfare services. In the last year
the Legislature, spurred by a Republican representative, Russell K. Pearce, has
passed a series of new restrictive measures. But Gov. Janet Napolitano, a
Democrat, has stopped a number of them with her veto.

This month Ms. Napolitano signed a measure that laid out in more detail the
requirements on immigrants to prove they are here legally before receiving
health benefits, a refinement of Proposition 200. But she vetoed a bill that
would have made illegal immigrants' presence a crime under trespass laws, and
another that would have required her to dispatch National Guard troops to guard
the border.

Mr. Pearce said of the governor, ''Why would you sit by and tolerate the
destruction of our American neighborhoods and the insecurity of our borders?''
He has prepared a broad new proposal to strengthen sanctions against employers
who hire illegal immigrants and to provide millions for new border and
immigration patrols by state law enforcement agencies.

While most of the clashes across the country have involved proposed restrictions
on illegal immigrants, some states have voted to expand access for them. On
April 13, the Nebraska Legislature overrode a veto by Gov. Dave Heineman, a
Republican, and allowed illegal immigrant students to pay in-state college
tuition.

And there is good news for party-going illegal immigrants in Wyoming. A measure
recently adopted there ensures that they are eligible to rent kegs of beer.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Ideas That Lack the Votes''As of April 28, state
legislators in 43 states had introduced 461 bills related to immigration or
immigrants. Here are some of the main topics.EMPLOYMENT83 bills in 33
statesBills include measures requiring verification of workers' legal status and
punishing employers who hire illegal immigrants. Some bills would bar illegal
immigrants from worker benefits.LAW ENFORCEMENT68 bills in 24 statesSome states
are considering bills that authorize the state police to cooperate with federal
immigration authorities and to enforce some federal laws.IDENTIFICATION:
DRIVERS' LICENSES AND VOTING59 bills in 28 statesMost bills would restrict
licenses to United States citizens and legal immigrants. For voting, most
measures would require proof of citizenship.EDUCATION46 bills in 18 statesBills
in some states would allow illegal immigrants to pay in-state college tuition,
others bar it. Some bills propose to restrict college enrollment to citizens and
legal immigrants.(Source by National Conference of State Legislatures)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 27, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Seeks Employers' Aid On Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 308 words


Federal immigration authorities unveiled a program yesterday that is designed to
induce employers to stop hiring illegal immigrants and to report those they find
on their payrolls.

In return, employers would be certified by the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency as having a clean bill of health on hiring.

Immigration officials in Washington announced the effort in response to growing
alarm among employers about the agency's recent crackdown on companies that
employ illegal immigrants. Federal immigration agents have brought federal
criminal charges against some employers who were repeat violators, putting some
of them in jail.

Under the new program, which is voluntary, employers must pass a series of
hurdles to demonstrate that no illegal immigrants are among their employees and
will then be certified as clean. They would have to submit to an audit of their
employee records by immigration agents and join the Basic Pilot Employment
Verification Program, a federal database that companies can use to confirm that
employees' identification documents are not fraudulent.

Companies would also be expected to name a compliance officer to monitor the
status of immigrant workers and to train their staff to verify documents.

Julie L. Myers, the homeland security assistant secretary who is the head of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that worried companies had come
forward seeking a way to avoid problems with the agency. Under current law,
employers are not required to scrutinize their employees' documents extensively.

Randel K. Johnson, a vice president at the United States Chamber of Commerce,
said he doubted that many companies would join the new program.

''I don't think a lot of employers will sign up because there are a lot of
hurdles, and no real carrot at the end of the process,'' Mr. Johnson said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Critics Say Politics Is Driving Hearings on Immigration

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1064 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


When House leaders announced their plan to hold 21 immigration hearings in 13
states during the August recess, they said it demonstrated a commitment to
battling illegal immigration and securing the border.

But some Democratic and Republican lawmakers said the schedule of the hearings
had only heightened their concerns that the Republican leadership was using
immigration as a weapon in the battle over fiercely contested House and Senate
seats around the country.

Several immigration hearings are being held far from the border with Mexico, in
districts where Republican lawmakers are engaged in competitive races for the
House, including Evansville, Ind.; Concord, N.H.; and Glens Falls, N.Y. Hearings
are also being held in Dubuque, Iowa, where Republicans are fighting to hold on
to the seat being vacated by Representative Jim Nussle, and in Hamilton, Mont.,
where Senator Conrad Burns faces a tough challenge.

Jeff Lungren, a spokesman for the House Judiciary Committee, which set hearings
in four battleground districts, said more than 60 members of the House had asked
for immigration hearings in their hometowns.

Lawmakers and political analysts say the hearings may help vulnerable
Republicans by rallying conservatives, who view Democrats as being weak on
border security, and by drawing attention away from other issues like the war in
Iraq and President Bush's diminished approval ratings.

''Of course it's not happenstance,'' said Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican
of Arizona, who is not running for re-election. He would rather have House
Republicans negotiating with the Senate for a compromise on immigration
legislation as opposed to the hearings, like the one set for his district, where
Republicans are battling to hold on to his seat.

''They are very deliberately planned,'' Mr. Kolbe said of the hearings. ''A lot
of Republicans are listening to a very shrill part of their base who are very
loud about this issue, and they believe that this translates into votes in the
base.''

Carl Forti, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee,
said his committee had nothing to do with the hearings. Kevin Smith, a spokesman
for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the majority leader, said the House
committee chairmen had decided where the hearings would be held.

Mr. Lungren said many of the hearings were being held in border states where
border security and illegal immigration from Mexico were critical concerns among
voters. But he did not rule out the possibility that politics had played a role
in the scheduling of the hearings.

''Policy is the substance of an issue,'' said Mr. Lungren, the spokesman for
Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee. ''Politics is helping to explain the substance of it. The two go hand
in hand.''

Bruce Braley, a lawyer and the Democratic contender in the Iowa race, dismissed
the immigration hearing scheduled for his district as ''classical
grandstanding.''

''There must be some perception that it's going to stir up some voters,'' Mr.
Braley said. ''I welcome a discussion on immigration, especially the failures of
the Bush administration. They have a very sorry record on border security.''

Meanwhile, Congressional Democrats have accused Republicans of playing politics
instead of moving an immigration bill to Mr. Bush's desk.

In May, the Senate passed legislation that would tighten border security, create
a guest worker program and ultimately grant citizenship to most illegal
immigrants after they pay fines and back taxes and enroll in English classes.
The president continues to indicate that he supports this approach.

But in December, the House passed a bill that focused solely on toughening
border security and immigration enforcement. House Republicans decided to hold
hearings to rally support for their approach before working with the Senate on a
compromise.

Last week, several Republican state chairmen described the hearings as useful
and said they might improve their candidates' prospects.

Murray Clark, chairman of the Indiana Republican Party, said he thought the
hearing in Evansville might invigorate conservative voters to support
Representative John Hostettler, a Republican who supports tough border security
measures.

Ray Hoffmann, chairman of the Iowa Republican Party, said the hearing in Dubuque
would put the spotlight on the Republican candidate, Mike Whalen, and his
proposal to create a tough employment verification system for immigrant workers.

''It's an issue that continues to be in the news in that district,'' Mr.
Hoffmann said. ''As people continue to talk about it, they'll continue to see
that Mike has a solution.''

Republicans who believe that immigration is a winning issue point to the special
election in June in Southern California for the House seat vacated by Randy
Cunningham, who pleaded guilty to bribery charges.

In that race, the Republican candidate, Brian P. Bilbray, a former congressman,
defeated his Democratic challenger after he attacked her as being weak on
illegal immigration.

''The special election in California really got a lot of people, not just
Republicans, but also Democrats, to say this is an issue we should be watching
out for,'' said Amy Walter, an analyst with the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report.

''What he was able to effectively do is take the race off the issues that are
most problematic for Republicans and make it about an issue where he could
present himself as more aligned with voters,'' Ms. Walter said of Mr. Bilbray.

Some Republicans warn, however, that the immigration issue could backfire,
particularly if Democrats pound away at what they characterize as the failures
of the Bush administration and the Republican-controlled Congress to stem the
tide of illegal immigration.

''It's certainly possible that we could have the issue stolen right from under
us,'' said Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, who is a leading
advocate of tough immigration laws.

But Scott Tranchemontagne, a campaign spokesman for Representative Charles Bass,
Republican of New Hampshire, remains hopeful. He said Mr. Bass had voted in
favor of the House border security legislation.

''It can only help,'' Mr. Tranchemontagne said of the immigration hearing
scheduled for his state. ''It's an issue we're pretty strong on.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In California Balancing Act, Immigration May Tip Vote

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1371 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 19


Illegal immigration has long been a political minefield in California, making
and breaking political careers. Now, with Congress considering the most sweeping
changes to immigration laws in two decades, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is
learning just how troublesome that terrain can be in an election year.

No Republican candidate for governor or president since the 1970's has won in
California without getting at least one-third of the Hispanic vote, which Mr.
Schwarzenegger, a Republican, achieved in a wide-open recall election in 2003.
In his bid for re-election in November, he faces the difficult task of courting
both Latino voters and his core conservative supporters, two groups that are
often far apart on immigration.

The immigration debate in Congress has also rippled into several other races for
governor, including those in Oklahoma, Massachusetts, Colorado and Arizona.
Democrats and Republicans are carefully staking out their positions, often with
intense political calculation.

Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat, has sought to appear tough,
declaring a state of emergency last year in the four border counties that bear
the brunt of the flow of illegal immigrants from Mexico. But this spring, with a
commanding lead in the polls, Ms. Napolitano rejected bills from the
Republican-dominated Legislature intended to make life harder for illegal
residents and the businesses that employ them, questioning the legality and
effectiveness of the proposals.

In Massachusetts, two of the three Democrats in the primary race for governor
have said they would consider using state troopers to enforce immigration law,
as Gov. Mitt Romney, a Republican, has proposed.

''It's like Iraq,'' said Jennifer E. Duffy, who tracks governors' races for The
Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter in Washington. ''It may not be
the driving issue of a campaign, but every candidate has a position that has
been articulated.''

As a Republican in a state dominated by Democrats, Mr. Schwarzenegger has a
difficult task in balancing the two competing constituencies, Ms. Duffy said,
because ''if just Republicans vote for him, he loses.''

So one week Mr. Schwarzenegger defends his support for the Minutemen civilian
patrols on the border that many conservatives strongly endorse, and the next he
distances himself from an anti-illegal-immigrant ballot initiative passed in
1994 that galvanized Latino political involvement on the side of Democrats.

At a recent town-hall-style campaign appearance by Mr. Schwarzenegger in Orange
County, Larry Collins, vice president of a local Republican club, asked the
first question, and it was about border security.

Mr. Collins said later that although he supported Mr. Schwarzenegger, he wanted
the governor to take a harder line on immigration. He said he could not bear
hearing more and more Spanish being spoken in the county, and he wondered about
the legality of the newcomers. ''We are being overloaded with a potential
hazard,'' Mr. Collins said.

Even as Mr. Schwarzenegger seeks to hold on to voters like Mr. Collins, he is
striving to attract Latinos. His aides concede that if the election is close,
Latino voters could prove vital, and so they have embarked on a campaign to
attract them, particularly native-born middle-class and professional Latinos.

The aides predict that these Latinos are more likely to approve of Mr.
Schwarzenegger's stance on other issues, such as his advocacy for small
businesses and tax cuts and his promises to improve education and health care.

On Monday, Mr. Schwarzenegger sent one of the nation's most prominent Latino
Republican businessmen, Hector V. Barreto, the former head of the Small Business
Administration and a board member of the United States Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce, to court Latino business owners and others in San Francisco.

''This will be an example of how we're going to run campaigns differently in the
Latino community for both Republicans and Democrats,'' said Matthew Dowd, Mr.
Schwarzenegger's chief strategist, who has set a goal of getting 35 percent of
the Latino vote.

Mr. Schwarzenegger has given no speeches specifically on immigration reform. But
in newspaper opinion articles and at campaign stops he has said that he
generally supports President Bush's advocacy of more border security, while he
also backs measures that would steer some illegal immigrants toward citizenship.

As the governor of California, he reluctantly sent National Guard troops to the
border this summer at the request of Mr. Bush, but rejected another request for
more troops.

Still, at a speech on Saturday at the state Republican Party's summer convention
in Los Angeles, Mr. Schwarzenegger sought to rally the party faithful in part by
criticizing his Democratic opponent's objection to having the Guard at the
border. He also attacked his opponent, Phil Angelides, the state treasurer, for
his support for allowing illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses, as a
public safety measure.

''My opponent wants to pull the National Guard off the border,'' Mr.
Schwarzenegger said. ''He wants to give undocumented workers California driver's
licenses. His policies are disastrous.''

Democrats are quick to point out that Mr. Schwarzenegger once said the United
States should ''close our borders,'' only to clarify the statement to ''secure
our borders'' after being criticized. Democrats view his back and forth as
political expediency.

''We have seen the governor waffle and flip-flop,'' State Senator Gil Cedillo,
Democrat of Los Angeles, said in a conference call with reporters last week. He
called on Mr. Schwarzenegger to debate Mr. Angelides on Spanish-language
television.

Mr. Angelides is expected to get most of the Latino vote and has endorsements
from several high-ranking elected Latino Democrats, with the glaring exception
of Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, a Democrat and Mexican-American.
To the consternation of Mr. Angelides's supporters, the mayor has withheld a
promised endorsement while he rallies bipartisan support, including Mr.
Schwarzenegger's, for legislation to give him a role in running the public
schools.

A Field Poll in July showed Mr. Angelides leading Mr. Schwarzenegger among
Latinos by 58 percent to 22 percent, with 20 percent undecided or supporting
other candidates. The poll, which sampled 992 registered voters from July 10 to
23 and has a margin of error of 3.8 percentage points, showed Mr. Schwarzenegger
leading over all among likely voters, 45 percent to 37 percent.

Everywhere he stops, Mr. Schwarzenegger is mobbed for autographs, and it is no
different among Hispanic voters (the governor has let it be known that he has
starred in movies filmed in Mexico).

In July, Mr. Schwarzenegger fixed tortillas at the Olvera Street market, where
tourists flock for a carefully constructed taste of old Mexican Los Angeles. The
visit came days after news photographers snapped him grinning with Mr.
Villaraigosa at the National Council of La Raza convention here.

Mr. Schwarzenegger rarely fails to highlight his own immigrant tale of arriving
nearly penniless from Austria in 1968 -- he is a naturalized United States
citizen -- and finding success in bodybuilding and Hollywood.

''I was able to make my dream turn into reality,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said at a
stop in Orange County.

He has also appointed several Hispanics to his campaign and administration
staff, including Arnoldo Torres, a former political analyst at the
Spanish-language broadcaster Univision, who is a senior adviser to the campaign.
Mr. Schwarzenegger has also visited several heavily Latino neighborhoods and has
made himself especially accessible to Spanish-language news media. (Mr.
Schwarzenegger declined to be interviewed for this article).

''I'm glad he is working toward getting the Latino community,'' said Martin
Gonzalez, 35, an independent voter who watched Mr. Schwarzenegger campaign
recently at a bakery started by Cuban immigrants in Glendale. ''He is doing it
now because now he knows we are important.''

Will he vote for Mr. Schwarzenegger?

''I just don't know, but maybe,'' Mr. Gonzalez said, adding with a laugh, ''My
kids like his movies.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger with a stuffed burro on Olvera Street
in Los Angeles, where he was campaigning last month for the Hispanic vote.
(Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pennsylvania Town Delays Enforcing Tough Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 595 words


A Pennsylvania town has agreed to hold off temporarily from enforcing an
ordinance that fines landlords who rent to illegal immigrants, denies business
permits to employers who hire them and requires that all city business be
conducted only in English.

A federal district judge, James M. Munley, issued an order yesterday confirming
an agreement between the town, Hazleton, and civil liberties groups that
challenged the ordinance in a lawsuit filed Aug. 15. Hazleton said it would not
immediately enforce the measure, passed July 13, and its opponents agreed not to
seek a formal injunction for the time being.

The Hazleton law was the first in a series of initiatives across the country in
which local townships, citing what they described as negligence by federal
authorities, moved on their own to crack down on illegal immigrants. Mayor Louis
J. Barletta said he wanted the ordinance to make Hazleton ''one of the most
difficult places in the United States for illegal immigrants.''

Under the ordinance, which had been set take effect on Sept. 11, landlords faced
a fine of $1,000 for each day they rented to immigrants lacking papers. The
measure also barred employers who hired illegal immigrants from renewing
business permits or receiving city contracts for five years.

The suit, brought by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Puerto Rican
Legal Defense and Education Fund, charged that the ordinance was ''riddled with
constitutional flaws,'' overstepped the bounds of municipal authority and would
discriminate against any residents who appeared to be foreigners. Several
plaintiffs are Hazleton landlords who are legal Hispanic immigrants.

In a telephone interview yesterday, Mayor Barletta said the town had agreed to
the delay in order to write a new ordinance, based on advice from lawyers, that
would be easier to defend in court.

''I'm not backing down,'' the mayor said. The new measure, he said, will clarify
that it is not intended to punish local retailers for selling to illegal
immigrants, after ambiguities in the current law raised an outcry from
storekeepers. He said he might submit the new proposal for a vote by the City
Council as early as Sept. 12.

According to a tally on Monday by the Puerto Rican legal group, six other towns
nationwide have adopted similarly tough ordinances: four in Pennsylvania, plus
Riverside, N.J., and Valley Park, Mo. Such measures have passed preliminary
votes in four additional towns, and at least 26 towns are considering them. Four
towns, including Avon Park, Fla., have rejected similar ordinances.

The order by Judge Munley, who sits in Scranton, Pa., gives the civil liberties
groups 20 days to renew their challenge to any immigration ordinance Hazleton
adopts. Omar C. Jadwat, an immigration lawyer for the A.C.L.U., said he hoped
that the town would eventually drop the ordinance and that ''other cities will
similarly take these ordinances off the table and rethink.''

New Round of Marches

  CHICAGO, Sept 1 (Reuters) -- Immigration advocates took to the streets of
Chicago on Friday in the first of a week of marches around the country to step
up pressure on Congress for a broad immigration overhaul.

Dozens of marchers set off from Chinatown, at the start of a four-day trek to
the Batavia, Ill., district offices of Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. Organizers
said they hoped to pressure Mr. Hastert to push a bill favorable to immigrants
through Congress after it returns from recess on Sept. 5.

Advocates plan further rallies across the country over the Labor Day weekend and
next week.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I'm not backing down,'' said Louis J. Barletta, Hazleton's
mayor. (Photo by Rick Smith/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 9, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boston Tests System Connecting Fingerprints to Records of Immigration Violations

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8


Immigration officials will automatically be notified any time the local or state
police do a federal fingerprint check on a suspect who also happens to be wanted
for serious immigration violations, under a new system being tested in Boston.

The automated notification is part of a Department of Homeland Security program
that could expand the role that the local and state police nationwide play in
the immigration enforcement effort.

To federal officials, it is a natural next step as police forces have hundreds
of thousands of officers who routinely come into contact with illegal
immigrants, while Immigration and Customs Enforcement has a squad of only about
6,000 criminal investigators.

''We are giving more information to more people who can act on the
information,'' said Robert A. Mocny, acting director of US-Visit, the Department
of Homeland Security program coordinating the effort. ''It only makes sense.''

But some immigration and civil liberties advocates objected.

''Once the police become viewed as immigration agents, as opposed to simply
safety and law enforcement patrols, they will lose the cooperation and trust of
a significant portion of the communities they serve,'' said Marshall Fitz,
director of advocacy at the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ''That
ultimately undermines all of our security interest.''

Barry Steinhardt, director of the technology and liberty program at the American
Civil Liberties Union, said he was also concerned. The Homeland Security
Department's records rely upon just two fingerprints, instead of 10, and are
therefore more subject to error, Mr. Steinhardt said, which could result in
someone's being wrongly detained on immigration charges.

''It is an unreliable system being run by a barely competent agency,'' Mr.
Steinhardt said.

The new program has started in a relatively modest way. When the Boston Police
Department runs a fingerprint check of federal criminal records for crime
suspects, it will also check a Homeland Security Department database of 420,000
people who have violated immigration laws. The federal list includes people who
have been previously deported from the United States or tried to enter but were
denied visas.

If the police happen to stop one of those people, both the Boston Police
Department and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a division of the Homeland
Security Department, will be notified. The department may then ask the Boston
police to hold the person for up to 48 hours, until the federal authorities can
take him into custody or otherwise begin deportation proceedings, an Immigration
and Customs Enforcement spokesman said.

Eventually, as more cities and states participate, the Homeland Security
Department intends to add nine million sets of fingerprints to the database to
include people with less serious immigration records, like someone caught trying
to cross the border from Mexico who then voluntarily returned home, Mr. Mocny
said.

The local and state police in many cities, including Boston, already routinely
contact Immigration and Customs Enforcement to see if suspects they have
detained might also be wanted on federal immigration violations. Federal
criminal databases already include some people wanted on felony immigration
violations.

But the immigration-related inquiries have previously been based on names and
dates of birth, which may be forged. And the checks are not frequently done for
every arrest and fingerprint check, as is now the case in Boston. ''You can't
hide from the fingerprint,'' Mr. Mocny said.

Mr. Fitz, of the immigration lawyers' group, said he had no objection if the
fingerprints were checked for immigration violations only after an individual
had been charged with another crime.

His concern, he said, is that the local police might begin to submit such
requests routinely during traffic stops or patrols simply to determine if
someone was in the United States legally.

William M. Casey, deputy superintendent of the Boston police, said Boston did
not plan to take such a step.

''We are doing nothing differently than we were doing before last Sunday,'' Mr.
Casey said. ''We are enforcing the laws the Boston police always enforce.''

Mr. Mocny said the Homeland Security Department was already moving to a
10-fingerprint system to address the potential for fingerprint mismatches. He
added that he understood that this new program might provoke debate.

It is also unclear how much demand it will place on the federal immigration
enforcement authorities in detaining illegal immigrants and conducting
deportation proceedings.

That is why the project is being tested in Boston before being expanded
nationally over the next two years.

''Eventually,'' Mr. Mocny said, ''it will be all violators of all immigration
laws. But we are going to give this 22 months to cook to make sure that we are
getting it right.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Midwest: Ohio: Immigration Case

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 137 words


The president of a temporary-labor contracting company operating in Ohio and
Tennessee and two other people associated with the company pleaded guilty to
federal charges of conspiring to send hundreds of illegal immigrants to work for
an air cargo business, federal prosecutors and immigration officials said. As
part of his plea, Maximino Garcia, 43, president of the Garcia Labor Company,
agreed to forfeit $12 million in proceeds, including an office building in
Wilmington, Ohio. Also pleading guilty were Dominga McCarroll, 53, Mr. Garcia's
sister and a former vice president of the company, and Gina Luciano, 40,
director of human relations. Mr. Garcia admitted that he had sent more than 400
illegal immigrants to work loading cargo at ABX Air in Wilmington under
contracts spanning five years.    JULIA PRESTON (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Path to Deportation Can Start With a Traffic Stop

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1755 words


While lawmakers in Washington debate whether to forgive illegal immigrants their
trespasses, a small but increasing number of local and state law enforcement
officials are taking it upon themselves to pursue deportation cases against
people who are here illegally.

In more than a dozen jurisdictions, officials have invoked a little-used 1996
federal law to seek special federal training in immigration enforcement for
their officers.

In other places, the local authorities are flagging some illegal immigrants who
are caught up in the criminal justice system, sometimes for minor offenses, and
are alerting immigration officials to their illegal status so that they can be
deported.

In Costa Mesa, Calif., for example, in Orange County, the City Council last year
shut down a day laborer job center that had operated for 17 years, and this year
authorized its Police Department to begin training officers to pursue illegal
immigrants -- a job previously left to federal agents.

In Suffolk County, on Long Island, where a similar police training proposal was
met with angry protests in 2004, county officials have quietly put a system in
place that uses sheriff's deputies to flag illegal immigrants in the county jail
population.

In Putnam County, N.Y., about 50 miles north of Manhattan, eight illegal
immigrants who were playing soccer in a school ball field were arrested on Jan.
9 for trespassing and held for the immigration authorities.

As an example of the uneven results that sometimes occur in such cross-hatches
of local and federal law enforcement, the seven immigrants who were able to make
bail before those agents arrived went free. The one who could not make bail in
time, a 33-year-old roofer and father of five, has been in federal detention in
Pennsylvania ever since.

''I took an oath to protect the people of this county, and that means enforcing
the laws of the land,'' said Donald B. Smith, the Putnam County sheriff. ''We
have a situation in our country where our borders are not being adequately
protected, and that leaves law enforcement people like us in a very difficult
situation.''

Other local law enforcement officials expressed similar frustration at the
apparent inability of the federal government to stem the rise in illegal
immigration. It is a frustration they say has been growing in the last few
years, and is now reaching a point of crisis.

During that time, a number of coinciding trends may have added to the sense that
there has been a breach in the covenant between the local and federal
authorities, according to interviews with immigration officials, police and
advocates. These trends include a housing boom that attracted growing numbers of
illegal workers, especially to distant suburbs and exurbs, where federal
resources are especially thin; an apparent stagnation in the size of the federal
immigration police force, which has remained at about 2,000 for several years;
and increasing local opposition to illegal immigration, again, especially in the
suburbs.

George A. Terezakis, a Long Island immigration lawyer, said that in his
practice, he had seen a trend. ''The heat is definitely getting turned up. Not
just on criminals, but against people I would consider charged with relatively
minor offenses: Having an invalid driver's license, a fake Social Security card.
A person with a job and a family can end up sitting in jail for months, and then
being deported.''

Federal statistics do not measure the number of immigration arrests and
deportations that occur because of local intervention. Officials with the United
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said the roughly 160,000
illegal immigrants deported last year represented a 10 percent increase over the
year before -- and a national record -- but they could not say how many had been
referred by the local authorities.

Until fairly recently, it was viewed as inappropriate, even unconstitutional,
for the local or state authorities to be involved in the enforcement of federal
law. In Los Angeles, the police still operate under an internal rule that says
''undocumented alien status is not a matter for police enforcement.'' Similar
policies apply in San Francisco and New York City.

But that may be changing, partly because the local authorities have decided to
play a more active role and partly because of an unabashed call from the federal
government seeking help from states and localities.

''The untold story of immigration law is that there are just not enough federal
immigration officers to enforce the immigration laws we have,'' said Kris W.
Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City who as a
counsel in the Justice Department worked on several cooperative agreements with
state and local law enforcement agencies.

''The only way our programs can work is with help from local law enforcement,
and we're expecting to see that happening more and more,'' he said.

To make that happen, law enforcement officials have increasingly been looking to
a federal statute, the 1996 Immigration and Nationality Act. It allows the local
and state authorities to reach agreements with the federal immigration and
customs agency to train their officers -- in a four-week crash course -- to be
virtual immigration agents, able to conduct citizenship investigations and begin
deportation proceedings against illegal immigrants.

The law went nearly untried in its first five years on the books. Then Florida
had 60 state agents and highway officers trained in 2002, and Alabama did the
same for about 40 state troopers in 2003. In the next two years, the Arizona
corrections department and the Los Angeles and San Bernardino Counties in
California each had a few dozen officers trained.

Indicating a new sense of urgency, though, 11 additional state and county
jurisdictions have applied to enter the program in the past year alone,
according to a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Michael W.
Gilhooly. He would not specify which they were, but public officials in
Missouri, Tennessee, Arizona and about a dozen additional counties in
California, Texas and North Carolina have publicly expressed interest in the
program.

Local officials involved in these initiatives say they are mainly targeting
hardened criminals in the immigrant population -- people like gang members and
sexual predators who have been the recent target of sweeps by federal
immigration agents.

But many of those affected by the new home-grown vigilance are immigrants
arrested for minor traffic violations, or charged with unlicensed driving,
possession of forged green cards and other offenses that are virtually
synonymous with the undocumented life, say immigrant advocates and lawyers.

In Springfield, Mo., for example, a furor erupted recently when a star player on
the high school soccer team, Tobias Zuniga, was arrested and jailed after a
routine traffic stop because he admitted to the officer that he was an illegal
immigrant. Officers at the Christian County Jail notified immigration agents,
and Mr. Zuniga, an 18-year-old senior, was held for a weekend before being
released on bail.

''He was stopped for having excessively tinted windows,'' Tom Parker, the father
of a friend and classmate of Mr. Zuniga, said in a telephone interview. ''And he
spent three nights in jail with drug dealers.'' Mr. Zuniga faces deportation
hearings this month.

Federal immigration officials, however, maintain that the vast majority of
illegal immigrants detained and deported are people convicted or charged with
serious crimes. There are simply not enough immigration agents to respond every
time a suspected illegal immigrant is arrested for driving with an invalid
license, said Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency.

Daniel W. Beck, the sheriff of Allen County, Ohio, 100 miles northwest of
Columbus, said calling immigration agents is no guarantee of action.

''When people drive without licenses, when they are in this country illegally,
it's really a right and wrong issue. I will arrest them,'' Mr. Beck said.
''Unfortunately, by the time a federal agent gets here, they are sometimes
already bailed out of jail.''

But Marianne Yang, director of the Immigrant Defense Project of the New York
State Defenders Association, a lawyers' group, said a recurring problem for
immigrants, legal and illegal, is the high bail set for them if they are
arrested, no matter how minor the crime.

''What we see in the increasing collaboration between local authorities and
I.C.E. is situations where a person would normally be released in his own
recognizance, and instead is held on high bail,'' she said of the agreements
with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

The arrests of the men playing soccer in Putnam County in January might
illustrate that phenomenon. Sheriff's deputies went there in response to a
complaint about safety by the administrator of the elementary school, which was
in session as the men played.

Mr. Smith, the Putnam sheriff, said deputies arrested the men that day only
after they refused the school administrator's request for them to leave. They
were charged with criminal trespass, a class B misdemeanor, and a Brewster
village judge set bail at $1,000 for seven of the eight. Bail for the eighth
man, Juan Jimeniz, a roofer, was set at $3,000 because he was not able to
provide his home address.

Mr. Smith said federal immigration agents were called to the jail because
deputies suspected the men were illegal immigrants and ''because we are trying
to uphold the law for the citizens of this county.''

When they arrived, seven of the men had made bail and Mr. Jimeniz, who was not
able to pay his bail, was taken by the immigration agents to a federal detention
wing of the Pike County Jail in Hawley, Pa., where he has remained since,
fighting deportation.

''He has no criminal record,'' said Vanessa Merton, director of the Immigration
Justice Clinic of the Pace University Law School, which represents Mr. Jimeniz.
''He is a roofer. He is supporting five children.''

''There is no way you could describe his detention as anything but haphazard,
random and completely arbitrary,'' she said.

Mr. Kobach, the former Justice Department official, said ''unevenness has been
endemic to the nature of immigration enforcement in recent years.''

But efforts by local and state authorities to pursue illegal immigrants, he
said, are at least in part, ''an effort to deal with that unevenness.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheriff's deputies in Suffolk County are responsible for
tracking down illegal immigrants in custody at the county jail in Riverhead,
N.Y., above. It is one of many counties trying to stem the rise in illegal
immigration.
The Rev. Orlando Cardona, center, leading a Mass in Spanish for inmates, many of
them illegal immigrants, at the Suffolk County jail. (Photographs by Ruth
Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 Henry Rosales Lopez and Fredy Reyes are among the illegal immigrants in custody
in Suffolk County, N.Y. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Georgia Enacts A Tough Law On Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 17


Gov. Sonny Perdue signed a sweeping immigration bill on Monday that supporters
and critics say gives Georgia some of the nation's toughest measures against
illegal immigrants.

The law requires verification that adults who seek many state-administered
benefits are in the United States legally. Employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants face sanctions, and companies with state contracts must check
employees' immigration status.

The law also requires that the police check the status of people they arrest.

Many of its provisions will not take effect until July 1, 2007.

The bill drew demonstrators on both sides at the Capitol here and prompted a
daylong work stoppage by thousands of immigrants.

The regional counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, Tisha Tallman, said she was studying potential legal challenges.

Governor Perdue, a Republican, said at the signing: ''I want to make this clear
-- we are not, Georgia's government is not, and this bill is not,
anti-immigrant. We simply believe that everyone who lives in our state needs to
abide by our laws.''

The law will not affect emergency medical care and educational benefits for
children in kindergarten through 12th grade. Federal courts have said those
programs have to be provided regardless of immigration status.

Exemptions were added for other services like prenatal care and the treatment of
communicable diseases.

Outside the Capitol, a few hundred supporters of the law applauded loudly when
word came that Mr. Perdue was signing the measure.

The crowd waved American flags and cheered as State Representative Melvin
Everson, a black Republican in the House, denounced illegal immigration as a
cancer

''The last time I checked,'' Mr. Everson said, ''America was the land of
English, not Spanish.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Crackdown Set Over Hiring Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20


The apprehension on Wednesday of more than 1,100 illegal immigrants employed by
a pallet supply company based in Houston, as well as the arrest of seven of its
managers, represented the start of a more aggressive federal crackdown on
employers, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Thursday.

Describing the hiring of millions of illegal workers, in some cases, as a form
of organized crime, Mr. Chertoff said the government would try to combat the
practice with techniques similar to those used to shut down the mob.

''We target those organizations, we use intelligence to define the scope of the
organization, and then we use all of the tools we have -- whether it's criminal
enforcement or the immigration laws -- to make sure we come down as hard as
possible and break the back of those organizations,'' Mr. Chertoff said at a
news conference.

The arrests took place just days before the Senate reconvenes with immigration
laws on its agenda. Earlier this month, the Senate faltered in its efforts to
develop a proposal that would have given most illegal immigrants a chance to
become citizens while intensifying border patrol and deportation efforts. And in
recent weeks, hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their supporters have
demonstrated in response to a bill passed in the House in December that would
speed deportations, tighten border security and criminalize illegal immigrants.

In the action on Wednesday, federal officials detained 1,187 illegal immigrants
working in 26 states for  IFCO Systems North America, a subsidiary of a company
based in the Netherlands that supplies plastic containers and wood pallets used
to ship a variety of goods, from fruit to computers.

Of the 1,187 detained workers, 275 have already been deported to Mexico. The
rest are being processed for deportation, although many may be released on bond.

Homeland Security Department officials said company supervisors knowingly hired
illegal immigrants, provided some of them housing and transportation to and from
work, and even reimbursed an undercover agent for the cost of obtaining
fraudulent identity documents.

An examination of the company's payroll of 5,800 employees found that just over
half of them had Social Security numbers that were either invalid, belonged to a
dead person or did not match names on file, the department said.

The investigation started in February 2005, when agents received a tip that IFCO
Systems workers in Guilderland, N.Y., were seen ripping up federal tax-related
employment verification forms, and then an assistant manager present explained
that they were illegal immigrants who did not intend to file tax returns.

No senior executives at the company were arrested, but officials filed criminal
charges against seven current or former lower-level managers and a foreman. The
supervisors, from New York, Massachusetts, Ohio and Texas, were accused of
conspiring to transport, harbor and induce illegal immigrants to come to the
United States, charges that carry maximum sentences of up to 10 years in jail.

Mr. Chertoff made clear that the investigation was continuing and that further
charges might be filed, leaving open the possibility of action against the
company. Last year, Wal-Mart paid an $11 million civil fine to settle charges
that it had knowingly hired illegal immigrants who worked as floor-cleaning
crews through independent contractors. The fine surpassed the sum of all
administrative fines from the previous eight years.

A spokeswoman for IFCO Systems, which had $576 million in sales globally last
year and whose customer list includes such companies as Dell Computer, Winn
Dixie supermarkets and Target stores, did not respond to messages left at her
office and on her cellphone.

As part of the campaign against illegal hiring, Mr. Chertoff and Julie L. Myers,
assistant secretary at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, plan to hire 171
more work-site enforcement agents. There are now about 325. They have also asked
Congress for legal authority to get routine access to Social Security records in
order to identify companies in which large numbers of new employees submit fake
numbers.

Separately, the department is adding 20 special teams of investigators, for a
total of 52, to search for some of the 590,000 immigrants in the country who
have ignored orders to leave. The department is also working with state and
local officials to try to identify and, if possible, deport many of an estimated
630,000 foreign-born individuals who are arrested on criminal charges and put
into jail.

Nationally, there were 127 criminal convictions last year -- up from 46 the year
before -- against employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants, the
department said.

Bill Bernstein, deputy director of Mosaic Family Services, a nonprofit group in
Dallas that works with refugee and immigrant families, said that simply
apprehending workers who might be here illegally was not the answer to the
immigration problem.

''There is a reason why these people were doing that job,'' Mr. Bernstein said,
''and that is there are a lot of jobs in this county that Americans aren't
taking.''

Mr. Bernstein said the timing of the announcement of the arrests was probably
not a coincidence. ''The reason this is being done now is to look good
politically,'' he said. ''The administration wants to make it clear they have an
enforcement side as well as an amnesty side.''

Michael W. Cutler, a fellow at the Center for Immigration Studies, a research
group that supports tougher immigration laws, said Mr. Chertoff's enforcement
blitz was more about public relations than substance.

''All they are doing is hanging window dressing on a building that is
condemned,'' said Mr. Cutler, who is a former federal immigration enforcement
officer. Even with additional agents, he said, the department will still have
far too few enforcing immigration laws.

Except for a small pilot program, Mr. Chertoff acknowledged that the federal
government had not provided a way for employers to verify employees' immigration
status quickly. That makes it difficult to hold employers criminally liable when
workers present valid-looking but falsified documents.

''We have to admit from the get-go that we've got to provide employers with the
necessary tools to verify the legal status of their employees,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators held a vigil on Wednesday at an immigration
detention center in Broadview, Ill. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)(pg. A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Bloomberg To Testify

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 87 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is scheduled to testify tomorrow at a field hearing
of the Senate Judiciary Committee on immigration reform and whether a national
guest-worker program is needed, the committee said yesterday. The committee
chairman, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, will oversee the hearing, to be
held at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. Mr. Bloomberg has
called for expansion of the number of work visas and permission for new
immigrants to gradually attain citizenship.    SEWELL CHAN (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Way Across The Border

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY.

Nicholas D. Kristof is on vacation.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 749 words


The good news for immigration reform is that both liberal Democrats and
conservative Republicans are denouncing a plan put forward last week. When both
sides care enough to complain, at least they're talking.

This plan comes from Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the Republican who
has spent the summer selling the idea to his party's leaders on Capitol Hill and
in the White House. With their encouragement, he joined a Senate Republican, Kay
Bailey Hutchison, in unveiling a shrewd compromise between the House's approach
to immigration -- seal the border! -- and the Senate's plan for a guest-worker
program.

To mollify the border hawks, Hutchison and Pence proposed a guest-worker program
that wouldn't start for two years, and then only if the president certified that
new border security measures had been carried out. Although some Democrats are
complaining publicly about the delay, this isn't a deal-breaker, because it
would take a couple of years to set up the guest-worker program anyway.

To get a guest-worker visa, immigrants would have to apply in their home
countries. That's another concession to the House Republicans, who accused the
Senate of effectively offering amnesty to illegal immigrants by letting them
remain in America while they applied for a visa.

By making them go home, Pence can reassure the Republican base that lawbreakers
aren't being rewarded, they're just being given the same chance to apply for a
visa as any worker in their home country. Anyone in a Latin American country
with a free-trade agreement with the United States could get a visa if an
American employer promised to hire him.

But would illegal immigrants be willing to go home? Democratic critics of Pence,
like Senator Edward Kennedy, warn that immigrants would be too afraid of losing
their jobs, and in many cases their families, to risk being stranded in their
home countries waiting for a visa.

That's a valid concern, especially if federal bureaucrats had to process all
those applications. Immigration officials are already swamped with paperwork. If
millions of illegal immigrants suddenly started applying for a new guest-worker
program, they could end up waiting years for visas.

But Pence has an ingenious solution: guarantee workers that their visa
applications will be processed within two weeks. The federal government would
oversee the process and run background checks for security risks, but most of
the routine work -- processing applications, doing medical checks, matching
applicants with employers -- would be handled at ''Ellis Island centers'' in
Latin American countries run by American private companies or agencies.

Pence thinks the most likely operators of these centers would be companies
experienced in placing job applicants, like Monster.com. But some of Pence's
fans in the White House and on Capitol Hill envision letting other groups get
involved too -- perhaps churches or labor unions or trade associations.

If an applicant already had an employer willing to hire him, the center would
confirm it. If he were looking for a job, the center would see if any employers
were interested. Once word got out that there was a quick way to get a visa,
illegal immigrants would want to come out of the shadows, and their employers
would be under new pressure to make sure workers had the visas.

The guest workers would be able, after 17 years, to apply for permanent
residency. Some Democrats fear that after the long wait it might still be
impossible for the immigrants to become citizens, but Pence says the system can
be set up to make sure there are enough slots for them as long as they follow
the law.

''I don't think the American people are very concerned about giving legal
immigrants the choice of permanent status or citizenship in the future,'' Pence
says. ''What concerns Americans is giving people amnesty for breaking the law
right now.''

Pence, the chairman of the Republican conservative caucus in the House, figures
that of the more than 110 members in the caucus, a third are dead set against
his proposal. But he estimates that a third are undecided, and a third are
leaning in favor.

Getting them and the rest of Congress to pass this proposal in time for the
election won't be easy -- certainly not as simple as railing at illegal
immigrants, as Republicans have been doing in their interminable hearings around
the country. But if they want to show voters they can do something besides
complain, there's a deal to be made.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Lose the Brain Race

BYLINE: By Steven Clemons and Michael Lind.

Steven Clemons is the director of the American Strategy Program at the New
America Foundation. Michael Lind is a senior fellow there.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 848 words

DATELINE: Washington


IS the United States importing too many immigrant physicists and not enough
immigrant farm workers? You might think so, to judge from two provisions that
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, added to the comprehensive
immigration reform package that just fell apart in the Senate. Senator Feinstein
insisted that the bill call for some fees for foreign students applying to study
at American colleges and universities to be doubled, and also demanded that
agribusiness get the right to 1.5 million low-wage foreign guest workers over
five years. Combined, the two proposals sent a message to the rest of the world:
send us your brawn, not your brains.

Whether Senator Feinstein's amendments will resurface in any reconstituted
legislation on immigration reform remains unclear. But her priorities reflect in
many ways those of Congress as a whole. Congress seems to believe that while the
United States must be protected from an invasion of educated, bright and
ambitious foreign college students, scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs, we
can never have too many low-wage fruit-pickers and dishwashers.

In making immigration laws, Congress caters to cheap-labor industries like
agribusiness and sweatshop manufacturing while shortchanging the high-tech,
high-wage industries on which the future of the American economy depends.
Witness the Senate bill's provision to admit 400,000 temporary workers a year,
or roughly four million a decade, in addition to the 12 million mostly low-wage
illegal immigrants already here, many of whose status would be legalized. Few if
any of those guest workers would go to universities, corporate campuses or
innovation clusters like Silicon Valley. They would head straight to
restaurants, hotels and plantation-like farms.

While the United States perversely tries to corner the market in uneducated
hotel maids and tomato harvesters, other industrial democracies are reshaping
their immigration policies to invite the skilled immigrants that we turn away.
Britain is following Australia and Canada in adopting a points system that gives
higher scores to skilled immigrants with advanced education and proficiency in
English. British, Canadian, German and even French universities are overflowing
in undergraduate and graduate enrollment as they absorb the foreign talent that
America is repelling.

Whereas Senator Feinstein fears that foreigners are snatching places at American
universities from deserving American students, the fact is that our universities
are weakened when fewer talented international students enter their programs.

In recent years, skilled immigration to the United States has been accommodated
chiefly by the H-1B visa program. But like all guest-worker programs, the H-1B
program pits American workers against foreign workers lacking full legal and
political rights. Because H-1B workers depend on employer sponsorship to remain
in this country, unscrupulous employers can blackmail them into working longer
hours for lower pay than American workers. Skilled workers admitted under a
points system, by contrast, would be able to quit their employers in the United
States and find new ones at will without risk of deportation.

Will admitting more immigrants drive down the wages of American workers? That
may be true in unskilled jobs, since there is a fixed number of bedpans to be
emptied and restaurant meals to be cooked in the United States.

But it isn't necessarily true for skilled workers, at least not in the long run.
That's because more talent means more innovation and opportunities for all,
immigrant and native alike. The growth economist Paul Romer has spoken of the
prospector theory of human capital. The more prospectors there are, the more
likely it is that some will find gold. As the history of Silicon Valley and
other tech centers proves, brain work migrates to where the brain workers are.
It's a kind of Field of Dreams in reverse: You will build it, if they come.

Even if a skill-based immigration system did reduce incomes for the elite, that
would not be the end of the world. For a generation, college-educated Americans
have enjoyed a seller's market in professional services and a buyer's market in
the labor of landscapers and nannies. If skilled immigration were increased
while unskilled immigration were reduced, the wages of janitors would go up
while the salaries and fees of professionals would fall, creating a broader
middle class and a more equal society.

The United States can always use another Albert Einstein or Alexander Graham
Bell. But with the vast pool of poorly paid, ill-educated laborers already
within our borders, we do not need a third of a million new ones a year.

What the space race was to the cold war, the ''brain race'' is to today's
peaceful global economic competition. The comprehensive immigration reform
America needs is one that slashes unskilled immigration and creates a
skill-rewarding points system modeled on those of Australia, Britain and Canada.
In encouraging skilled labor, Congress for a change might perform some of its
own.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Labor Federation Forms a Pact With Day Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 678 words


The A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the nation's largest organization of day laborers signed a
partnership agreement yesterday intended to help the languishing labor movement
tap into the potent energy of the immigrant rights movement.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. said its partnership with the group, the National Day Labor
Organizing Network, would also seek to improve wages and conditions for tens of
thousands of laborers and other immigrant workers.

With the agreement, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is embracing workers who many union
members have accused of driving down wages. The partnership connects the labor
federation to a network that largely represents illegal immigrant workers who
often have run-ins with the police as they stand on street corners soliciting
jobs.

The day laborers' network and the immigrant groups it works with were pivotal in
setting up the large demonstrations this spring that backed immigrant rights.

''I think the A.F.L.-C.I.O. needs this energy, this new energy,'' said Pablo
Alvarado, director of the network, a loose association of day laborers and
worker centers across the country.

More than 140 of the worker centers exist, and promote the rights of immigrant
workers, teach them English, inform them about their rights and help them file
claims for unpaid wages.

''The fact is that worker centers are one of the most vibrant parts of the labor
movement today, even though they have largely not had a connection to 'organized
labor,' '' the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, John J. Sweeney, said at a news
conference in Chicago, where the federation's executive council was meeting.

Under the partnership, worker centers will be able to have nonvoting
representatives on the boards of central labor councils in cities throughout the
nation. The day laborers will not pay union dues or become union members.

''We don't bring money, we're not bringing members,'' Mr. Alvarado said. ''But
we're bringing something that's extremely important: very humble, very
vulnerable workers who say, 'I need to get paid more for what I do.' ''

The federation will push for stronger safety and wage enforcement and a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants.

Several labor experts called the partnership a major step for labor.

''Symbolically it's very, very important,'' said Janice Fine, an assistant
professor of labor relations at Rutgers University and the author of a book
about worker centers. ''It's a clear signal from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. that it's
acknowledging the immigrant workers movement that has grown up largely alongside
organized labor.

Last January, professors at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the
University of Illinois at Chicago released the first nationwide study on day
laborers, finding that 117,600 gather at more than 500 hiring sites on a typical
day.

The survey found that nearly half of day laborers reported that employers had
cheated them out of wages and 18 percent reported incidents of violence by
employers.

''This exploitation is wrong -- it's immoral,'' Mr. Sweeney of the labor
federation said. ''It hurts us all because when standards are dragged down for
some workers, they are dragged down for all workers.''

Steven A. Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies,
which supports tighter restrictions on immigration, said it was surprising that
the A.F.L.-C.I.O. was embracing day laborers when many American workers oppose
the influx of immigrants, convinced that they take away jobs and push down
wages.

''The union leadership wants one thing, and union members want another,'' Mr.
Camarota said. ''This highlights why it's difficult for the main labor movement
-- it's completely out of touch with the interests of American workers.''

Mr. Alvarado and the Laborers International Union of North America, a
construction workers union, are scheduled to announce a partnership today that
will focus on improving conditions for thousands of immigrant workers doing
housing construction in Riverside, San Bernardino and Sacramento, Calif., as
well as in that state's Central Valley.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pablo Alvarado, National Day Labor Organizing Network director,
and John J. Sweeney, A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, in Chicago yesterday. (Photo by
Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Assimilation Nation

BYLINE: By Peter D. Salins.

Peter D. Salins, the provost and vice chancellor of the State University of New
York, is the author of ''Assimilation, American Style.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: Albany


IN the debate over the redesign of this country's immigration policies,
Americans often lose sight of the project's overriding objective. Immigration
reform is urgently needed not to fill gaps in our labor force, or to accommodate
pro- or anti-immigrant voters, but to ensure that all immigrants, present and
future, are integrated into American civic and social life -- or, to use an
unfashionable phrase, assimilated.

The failure to absorb immigrants is the bane of most nations with large
immigrant populations, as exemplified by France's recent turmoil. The key to
assimilation in the United States has been our openness to large-scale
immigration and tolerance of ethnic and religious differences. But it has also
depended heavily on laws and policies that have allowed legal immigrants to
become American in every sense.

Clearly, the 11 million to 12 million undocumented immigrants now here can never
assimilate, whether they want to or not. Their illegal status will keep them
from being accepted by their American neighbors, regardless of their virtue or
utility. Thus, legalizing their status is essential.

The more problematic issue is the status of future immigrants, and that is where
several proposals for immigration reform go awry. The most troublesome of these
ideas, heavily promoted by immigration proponents, would allow in a large cohort
of guest workers. Guest workers (a group that would soon grow into the
millions), by definition, will never become Americans. Like the Turks in Germany
and guest workers in other European nations, many will not return to their
native countries once their work permits are up, thus inevitably becoming the
next generation of illegal aliens. Yet, the favored solution of immigration
hard-liners, sealing the border, is untenable unless we also expand legal
immigration pathways.

Thus, a successful immigration reform package must consist of three components.
First, as the bill stalled in the Senate envisions, we must put the illegal
immigrants already here on a secure path to legal residency and ultimate
citizenship. Second, we must enlarge the quota of legal new entrants, but not
through the kind of guest worker program being proposed. Instead, we should
allow an equivalent number of immigrants (300,000 to 400,000) to enter annually
with permanent resident visas, but under a different set of rules.

As it stands, there are only four major eligibility criteria for immigrants:
family ties, sponsored employment in a few skill areas, documented persecution
or selection in a visa lottery. But the majority of those wanting to come here
do not have close American relatives, the right skills or proof of persecution.
And the lottery offers slim odds.

A fairer approach, and one that offers future immigrants enough hope of success
to discourage border-jumping, would award entry on a first-come basis, placing
all potential immigrants (with clean records) on a waiting list, possibly giving
favorable weighting to applicants from the Western Hemisphere, or those with
desirable characteristics like proficiency in English.

Opening up a better pathway for legal immigrants that paves the way for their
full acceptance and citizenship would allow us to deal more forcefully with the
third component of a reformed immigration policy: stanching illegal immigration.
The logistical challenges to border control will remain formidable, but with an
enlarged quota in place and more effective enforcement (including deportation
and employer sanctions), the motivation for immigrants to enter illegally and
for American employers to hire them should lessen considerably.

This three-pronged approach will allow the United States to remain both a beacon
for immigrants and a unified society, all of whose residents eventually become
Americans in self-conception as well as legal fact. Advocates of liberalization
are wrong to justify immigration primarily as a way to recruit workers for our
most difficult or poorly paid occupations; labor unions and other
restrictionists are wrong to oppose it primarily because it might depress wages
or raise social welfare costs. Not only are these arguments empirically dubious,
they are also beside the point.

Any immigration policy that focuses on the labor market or national and state
budgets can generate only transitory benefits, if any, while its failure to
assure the assimilation of the millions of immigrants among us will surely cause
permanent harm.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jim Frazier)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush to Unveil Plan to Tighten Border Controls

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Thom Shanker contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 12


The White House said Friday that President Bush would open the next phase of the
debate over illegal immigration next week with a strong emphasis on border
security, including the possible use of more National Guard troops.

Mr. Bush was signaling an effort to reassure conservatives on an issue that has
deeply divided his party.

The White House said Mr. Bush would deliver a televised address on Monday
evening -- his first on domestic policy from the Oval Office -- to build public
pressure on Congress at a crucial moment. The address will come as the Senate
tries again to pass a bill that addresses both demands to stem the inflow of
undocumented workers across the border with Mexico and the desire of American
employers to have reliable access to a low-wage work force.

Mr. Bush has sought to walk a line between the position taken by Republicans in
the House, who oppose any steps to legalize undocumented workers, and the
Senate, where many Republicans favor granting some illegal aliens a path to
citizenship. But his aides suggested that Mr. Bush had to mollify conservatives
first if he was to succeed in winning a compromise.

White House officials said Mr. Bush had always understood the need to protect
the border as a former governor of a border state, Texas. But they acknowledged
they had perhaps erred in not emphasizing that understanding as they pushed
provisions granting illegal immigrants working here legal status, angering
Republicans.

''I think members of the House will like what they hear on border security,'' a
senior administration official told reporters during a briefing at the White
House. Entry to the briefing was conditioned on anonymity.

White House officials said Mr. Bush was considering proposals to increase the
number of law enforcement and military personnel patrolling the border; to
accelerate the use of high-tech surveillance tools and to step up enforcement
against illegal workers and their employers.

Three high-level officials -- one in the administration, one in the military and
one in the governor's office of a border state -- said one plan being considered
would provide money to states to get more National Guard troops in place to
support the Border Patrol. But, these officials said, such a move would be
intended to be temporary while the federal government works on training more
full-time border security agents.

''The question is how best can we deploy assets to have the most immediate
impact?'' the senior administration official said. ''Part of that aspect is,
'Let's contemplate if there could be a National Guard role.' ''

Also on Friday, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld met at the Pentagon with
Mexico's defense minister, Gen. Gerardo Clemente Ricardo Vega. Officials said
they had discussed, among other things, potential United States help in training
and equipping Mexican forces at the border.

The approach that will be on the Senate floor next week contrasts sharply with
legislation already passed by the House, which would try to seal off the border
and would crack down on illegal immigrants and those who employ or harbor them.

Senate leaders expect to approve the compromise legislation within the next two
weeks, starting an expected round of tough negotiations between the House and
the Senate that the president will likely try to mediate.

''This is crunch time,'' the new White House press secretary, Tony Snow, told
reporters Friday.

The White House was awaiting word from the major networks as to whether they
would all carry his address on Monday evening during their crucial sweeps rating
period used to set advertising prices. NBC and Fox have agreed to take the
address, as have the cable news networks; CBS and ABC are still considering
whether they will upset their schedules to take the address.

Mr. Bush has typically stayed out of legislative fights until the final stages
of the process, but in this case he has come under pressure from Republican
leaders on Capitol Hill to weigh in more forcefully if he wants legislation to
pass this year.

''It's going to help us a lot in the debate,'' Senator Mel Martinez, Republican
of Florida, said of the president's planned address. Mr. Martinez, a sponsor of
the compromise legislation in the Senate, added, ''A good strong statement on
border security is the best thing he can do.''

In deciding to raise the political stakes by having Mr. Bush deliver a national
address on such a divisive issue, the White House is also trying to reassert Mr.
Bush's presidential power more generally at a time when his approval ratings are
touching new lows and his conservative base is increasingly unhappy with his
stance on a number of issues, including immigration.

The unrest among conservatives is worrying Republican members of Congress who
are facing re-election this year and are increasingly airing their disagreements
with the White House publicly. The use of military personnel in the form of an
increased National Guard presence along the border would be a potent political
symbol. Governors already have the authority to send their National Guard troops
to carry out these missions, and some have done that. Officials did not say how
many troops could potentially be used at the border -- adding there are
potentially a few hundred now -- but disputed reports that the number could be
as high as 10,000.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California said in Sacramento that using Guard
troops was ''not the right way to go,'' in part because many were just returning
from Iraq.

Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat, complained that he still did not
have as many border patrol agents as he had been promised. Mr. Richardson said
that his National Guard contingent was already spread thin and that he needed
those who were home to help contain wildfires. ''What I need the most is border
patrol agents,'' he said.

But the White House has been busily consulting with Congressional members,
especially those from border states. The White House deputy chief of staff, Karl
Rove, has been holding meetings with antsy conservatives to get them on board
with the president.

''I've been real frustrated with this issue,'' said Representative Kevin Brady,
a Texas Republican who attended one of the meetings with Mr. Rove this week.
''But Karl Rove seems determined to secure the border, and I like the focus on
results right now.''

Is he inclined to sign off on guest-worker provisions? ''Let's not put the cart
before the horse,'' Mr. Brady said.

The White House says that plenty of conservatives agree with the president but
that it will work hard to win the others over. ''That's something we're going to
have to try to work through and reconcile,'' the senior official said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Governors of Border States Have Hope, and Questions

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE STATES;
Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1165 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 16


For years, governors of the four states along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico
have pleaded with Washington for aid in dealing with the burdens of illegal
immigration. They have usually been met with silence, delay or empty promises.

President Bush's speech on Monday evening offered the governors of California,
Arizona, New Mexico and Texas some hope that Washington was finally listening.

But like Mr. Bush, the four governors are walking a political balance beam
between conservatives demanding a border clampdown and pro-immigrant groups
asking for a more compassionate approach. Growing numbers of Hispanic voters in
the region, themselves divided on the question of immigrant rights, also
complicate the equation.

The president's plan -- the use of National Guard troops for at least a year, a
guest-worker program and a vague system to offer citizenship to some
undocumented workers -- gave the governors, all seeking re-election this year,
an opportunity to highlight their differences with the administration and appeal
to residents seeking faster action.

It also left the governors with many questions. There was virtually no
consultation before the president announced his proposals and no discussion of
how the states would pay the multibillion-dollar costs of providing education,
medical care and other public services for the millions of illegal immigrants
already in the United States.

Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat, has been asking the White House
and the Pentagon since December to pay for additional National Guard troops to
secure the Arizona border, which sees roughly half of those entering illegally
from Mexico.

''I think the president finally has moved,'' Ms. Napolitano said in a phone
interview Tuesday. ''They allowed this problem to fester for far too long. This
should have been dealt with years ago.'' She said that after ignoring the border
governors for years, Washington began to confront the nation's broken
immigration system after vigilantes started patrolling the borders and millions
of demonstrators seeking rights for immigrants packed the streets.

''That was a cry from the country saying we want an immigration system that
works and can be enforced,'' Ms. Napolitano said.

The governors in the Southwest do not have the luxury of viewing the immigration
problem as a long-term issue requiring years of debate and a multipronged policy
approach. To them, it is an expensive crisis, requiring the quick dispatch of
federal money and people.

Bill Richardson, the Democratic governor of New Mexico and a potential
presidential candidate in 2008, complained that the White House had failed to
consult with those on the front lines of the immigration battle. ''There has
been no consultation. Zero, zero, zero, none,'' Mr. Richardson said.

He called the deployment of National Guard troops a stopgap measure that would
have virtually no deterrent effect.

''What exactly are they going to do?'' Mr. Richardson asked. ''What are their
rules of engagement? Those questions have not been answered.''

Criticism of the president's plan was bipartisan. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of
California, a Republican, said that using National Guard troops was at best a
''Band-Aid solution.'' And he questioned whether the 6,000 troops who would be
assigned temporary duty on the border would be enough to hold back the flood of
migrants.

''I have not heard the president say that our objective is to secure the borders
no matter what it takes. That's what I want to hear,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said
at a bill-signing ceremony on Tuesday. ''So what if they have 6,000 National
Guards at the borders and we find out that the same amount of people are coming
across? Does it mean he will increase it to 12,000, to 15,000, to 50,000? We
don't know. I have no idea. And so we were not consulted on that, and we have
not really been included in the decision making process, so I cannot tell you.''

Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Bush, a former governor of Texas, both face low
public-approval numbers and hope to use immigration to improve their political
fortunes by splitting the difference on an emotional issue that divides both
parties. They share the experience of governing states with large numbers of
immigrants but also vociferous Republican constituencies demanding strict
control of the border and no amnesty for those here illegally.

Mr. Schwarzenegger, himself an immigrant, did praise one aspect of Mr. Bush's
plan, the emphasis on regaining control of the border. But he also asked for a
path to citizenship for at least some of the millions of immigrants who have
sought a better life in the United States

Three hours before Monday night's speech, Karl Rove, the White House deputy
chief of staff, and Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, briefed
the four governors on the president's plan. Participants said the briefing was
short on specifics, and nothing was provided in writing to answer the governors'
questions, particularly on the numbers and missions of the troops.

Mr. Rove and Mr. Chertoff told the governors that the troops would come from
states around the country, but did not provide any more specific information.

The governors expressed concern that diverting troops to the border would
exhaust Guard members already drained by war deployments. They said they were
worried that they would not have troops available to deal with forest fires or
other natural disasters.

Mr. Richardson said that of 4,000 members of the New Mexico National Guard, 68
were already patrolling the border and 300 were in Iraq. ''My National Guard
commander says we can probably spare 100 guardsmen without being threatened in
our response to forest fires and other civil emergencies,'' he said. ''The Guard
is already stretched. My answer is just to approve more Border Patrol agents.''

The most supportive governor was Rick Perry of Texas, the Republican who
succeeded Mr. Bush. He said that Texas National Guard forces were capable of
''multitasking'' -- dealing with overseas deployments, local emergencies and
border duty.

Mr. Perry applauded the president's vow to end the so-called catch-and-release
program under which thousands of illegal border crossers are apprehended,
briefly detained and then let go with a future date before an immigration judge.
He also welcomed Mr. Bush's promise to add 6,000 Border Patrol agents, though he
said he believed that the number was probably too low.

''The fact of the matter is that we've got a problem here,'' Mr. Perry said in
an interview on Fox News on Tuesday. ''And it's good that the federal government
is starting to respond to our needs.''

Mr. Bush is scheduled to meet with Ms. Napolitano on Thursday in Yuma, a few
miles from the border. She said she planned to ask him to send federal money to
cover the costs of jailing illegal immigrants and to strengthen the Border
Patrol.

''Some states are bearing an undue burden,'' she said, ''and Arizona is one.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California speaking on Monday.
(Pool photograph by Nancee E. Lewis)
 Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona on a tour of the border in November. (Pool
photograph by Jack Kurtz)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Commerce Secretary Urges Guest Worker Program

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 113 words


Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez urged Congress to pass legislation that
would put illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship and create a temporary
worker program to ensure that American companies could meet their labor needs.
Mr. Gutierrez, testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee, said that 500
of the nation's top economists recently sent a letter to the Bush administration
stating that immigration had been a net gain for Americans. Meanwhile, House
Republicans announced plans for seven more hearings this month to highlight
their concerns about the Senate immigration bill, which would legalize most of
the nation's illegal immigrants.    RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pickers Are Few, and Growers Blame Congress

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

DATELINE: LAKEPORT, Calif.


The pear growers here in Lake County waited decades for a crop of shapely fruit
like the one that adorned their orchards last month.

''I felt like I went to heaven,'' said Nick Ivicevich, recalling the perfection
of his most abundant crop in 45 years of tending trees.

Now harvest time has passed and tons of pears have ripened to mush on their
branches, while the ground of Mr. Ivicevich's orchard reeks with rotting fruit.
He and other growers in Lake County, about 90 miles north of San Francisco,
could not find enough pickers.

Stepped-up border enforcement kept many illegal Mexican migrant workers out of
California this year, farmers and labor contractors said, putting new strains on
the state's shrinking seasonal farm labor force.

Labor shortages have also been reported by apple growers in Washington and
upstate New York. Growers have gone from frustrated to furious with Congress,
which has all but given up on passing legislation this year to create an
agricultural guest-worker program.

Last week, 300 growers representing every major agricultural state rallied on
the front lawn of the Capitol carrying baskets of fruit to express their ire.

This year's shortages are compounding a flight from the fields by Mexican
workers already in the United States. As it has become harder to get into this
country, many illegal immigrants have been reluctant to return to Mexico in the
off-season. Remaining here year-round, they have gravitated toward more stable
jobs.

''When you're having to pay housing costs, it's very difficult to survive and
wait for the next agricultural season to come around,'' said Jack King, head of
national affairs for the California Farm Bureau Federation.

California farms employ at least 450,000 people at the peak of the harvest, with
farm workers progressing from one crop to the next, stringing together as much
as seven months of work. Growers estimate the state fell short this harvest
season by 70,000 workers. Joe Bautista, a labor contractor from Stockton who
brings crews to Lake County, said about one-third of his regular workers stayed
home in Mexico this year, while others were caught by the Border Patrol trying
to enter the United States.

With fewer workers, Mr. Bautista fell behind in harvests near Sacramento and
arrived weeks late in Lake County. ''There was a lot of pressure on the
contractors,'' he said. ''But there is only so much we can do. There wasn't
enough labor.''

For years, economists say, California farmers have been losing their pickers to
less strenuous, more stable and sometimes higher-paying jobs in construction,
landscaping and tourism.

''If you want another low-wage job, you can work in a hotel and not die in the
heat,'' said Marc Grossman, the spokesman for the United Farm Workers of
America. The union calculates that up to 15 percent of California's farm labor
force leaves agriculture each year.

As they sum up this season's losses, estimated to be at least $10 million for
California pear farmers alone, growers in the state mainly blame Republican
lawmakers in Washington for stalling immigration legislation that would have
addressed the shortage by authorizing a guest-worker program for agriculture.
Many growers, a dependably Republican group, said they felt betrayed.

''After a while, you get done being sad and start being really angry,'' said
Toni Scully, a lifelong Republican whose family owns a pear-packing operation in
Lake County. ''The Republicans have given us a lot of lip service, and our crops
are hanging on the trees rotting.''

Tons more pears that were harvested were rejected by Mrs. Scully's packing plant
because they were picked too late. The rejects were dumped in a farm lot, mounds
of pungent fruit swarming with bees, left to be eaten by deer. ''The anthem
about the fruited plain,'' Mrs. Scully said sadly, ''I don't think this is what
they had in mind.''

Some economists and advocates for farm workers say the labor shortages would
ease if farmers would pay more. Lake County growers said that pickers' pay was
not low -- up to $150 a day -- and that they had been ready to pay even more to
save their crops. ''I would have raised my wages,'' said Steve Winant, a pear
grower whose 14-acre orchard is still laden with overripe fruit. ''But there
weren't any people to pay.''

The tightening of the border with Mexico, begun more than a decade ago but
reinforced since May with the deployment of 6,000 National Guard troops, has
forced California growers to acknowledge that most of their workers are illegal
Mexican migrants. The U.F.W. estimates that more than 90 percent of the state's
farm workers are illegal.

Most California growers gave up years ago on recruiting workers through the
seasonal guest-worker program currently in place. Known as H-2A, the program
requires employers to prove they tried to find American workers and to apply
well in advance for relatively small contingents of foreign workers for fixed
time periods.

''Our experience with the current H-2A program has been a nightmare,'' said
Luawanna Hallstrom, general manager of Harry Singh & Sons, a vine-ripe tomato
grower based in Oceanside, near San Diego.

Ms. Hallstrom said her company tried to use the program in the months after the
Sept. 11 attacks, when security checks forced it to fire illegal migrant
employees who were working in tomato fields on a military base. Her company lost
$2.5 million on that 2001 crop, she said.

Over the years, occasional programs to draw American workers to the harvests
have failed. ''Americans do not raise their children to be farm workers,'' Ms.
Hallstrom said.

The failure of Congress to approve a new guest-worker program surprised
California growers because a proposal that the Senate passed stemmed from a rare
agreement between growers' organizations, the U.F.W. and other advocates for
farm workers, and legislators ranging from conservative Republicans to liberal
Democrats.

Known as AgJobs, the proposal would create a new temporary-resident status for
seasonal farm workers and give them the chance to become permanent residents if
they work intensively in agriculture for at least three years. It was included
in a bill that passed the Senate in May. The House has passed several bills
focused on border security, and has avoided negotiations with the Senate on a
broader immigration overhaul. [Three of the House bills were passed Thursday.]

Mr. Ivicevich, a 69-year-old family farmer, is not given to displays of emotion.
But he paused for a moment, overwhelmed, as he stood among trees sagging with
pears that oozed when he squeezed them. His nighttime sleep, in his cottage
among his 122 acres of orchards, is disrupted by the thud of dropping fruit and
the cracking of branches.

For decades, Mr. Ivicevich said, migrant pickers would knock on his door asking
for work climbing his picking ladders. Then about five years ago they stopped
knocking, and he turned to a labor contractor to muster harvest crews. This
year, elated, he called the contractor in early August. Pears must be picked
green and quickly packed and chilled, or they go soft in shipping.

''Then I called and I called and I called,'' Mr. Ivicevich said.

The picking crew, which he needed on Aug. 12, arrived two weeks late and 15
workers short. He lost about 1.8 million pounds of pears.

His neighbor, Mr. Winant, standing in his drooping orchard with his hands sunk
in his jeans pockets, said he would rather bulldoze the pear trees than start
preparing them for a new season.

''It's like a death, like a son died,'' said Mr. Winant, 45, who cares for the
small orchard himself during the winter. ''You work all year and then see your
work go to ground. I want to pull them out because of the agony. It's just too
hard to take.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Toni Scully, whose family owns a pear-packing company in
Northern California, rejected tons of fruit that had been picked too late for
marketing. (Photo by Max Whittaker for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Pears rotted on the ground of Nick Ivicevich's orchard. He lost about 1.8
million pounds of them. (Photo by Max Whittaker for The New York Times)(pg.
A16)Map of California highlighting Lake County: Lake County lacked fruit pickers
for this year's harvest. (pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Leaders Break a Stalemate Over an Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 11


Senate leaders said Thursday that they had broken a political stalemate and
would bring to the floor next week an immigration bill that could put millions
of illegal immigrants on the road to eventual American citizenship.

An agreement reached Thursday by Senators Bill Frist of Tennessee and Harry Reid
of Nevada, the Republican majority and Democratic minority leaders, ends an
impasse that has stalled action in the Senate for weeks while immigrants and
their advocates have held huge demonstrations across the country.

The deal does not mean that a bill will emerge from Congress soon. But it is
significant that the Senate leaders agreed to proceed, because the chamber
operates under peculiar rules and traditions that can bury legislation
indefinitely. Mr. Frist and Mr. Reid said they hoped to schedule a vote before
Memorial Day.

Even if the Senate passes an immigration bill, it would have to be reconciled
with a bill enacted in December by the House. Until partisan bickering
sidetracked legislation in the Senate in early April, the chamber was working on
a package that offered opportunities for citizenship, a guest worker program and
measures to enhance border security.

The tougher House bill focuses on border security and would crack down on
illegal immigrants and those who employ them. Given the deep differences between
Senate and House, negotiations could be long and heated.

''What the Democratic leader and I have laid out is a way to get on to this
bill,'' Mr. Frist said, ''and as you can tell, both of us are working in very
good faith on the various issues that have been raised on the floor.''

Mr. Reid said he welcomed the return of the immigration bill to the Senate
floor. ''America's immigration system is broken, and our national security
depends on Republicans and Democrats finding common ground to fix it,'' he said.
''The assurances I have received from Senator Frist make me hopeful we can
finally move forward on real comprehensive reform.''

The leaders' comments indicated that they had resolved the issues that had kept
them apart: how many amendments to consider and how much time to devote to them.

''I didn't get everything that I wanted,'' said Mr. Reid, who blocked votes on
amendments weeks ago, saying they would gut the legislation. ''I think the
majority leader didn't get everything he wanted.''

Mr. Frist said that there would be ''a considerable number of amendments debated
and voted on each day,'' and that they would be handled ''in an efficient way.''

Mr. Frist said 14 Republicans and 12 Democrats would negotiate with House
members once the Senate passes an immigration bill. Seven of the Republicans and
five of the Democrats will come from the Judiciary Committee, with the rest
picked by Mr. Frist and Mr. Reid.

President Bush has said he favors legislation that would enable immigrants to
become citizens, but only after they meet strict standards. He has said
repeatedly that he does not favor ''amnesty.'' ''We congratulate the Senate on
reaching agreement, and we look forward to passage of a bill prior to Memorial
Day,'' said Dana Perino, the deputy White House press secretary.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, called the agreement
Thursday ''a major step forward in our fight for tough but fair immigration
reform.''

''Business and labor, Democrats and Republicans, religious leaders and the
American people strongly support our plan to strengthen our borders, provide a
path to earned citizenship for those undocumented workers who are here and put
in place a realistic guest worker program for the future,'' Mr. Kennedy said.

But quick passage is by no means assured, given the complexity of the debate,
the emotion it stirs and the approaching elections. Representative John A.
Boehner of Ohio, leader of the House Republican majority, said in late April
that he opposed the emerging Senate legislation and its emphasis on citizenship.
''I don't think that would be supported by the American people,'' Mr. Boehner
said.

Still, the accord announced by Mr. Frist and Mr. Reid apparently means that
immigration legislation will not sink out of sight in ''the procedural quagmire
that the Senate is,'' as Mr. Reid put it recently.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

DIVISIONS REMAIN AS BUSH PRESSES ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: CONGRESS;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16


President Bush pushed ahead on Tuesday with his effort to bring Republicans in
the House and the Senate together on a plan to reduce illegal immigration. But
he ran into renewed resistance from conservatives who said they were not swayed
by the case he made Monday to give many illegal workers a chance to become
citizens.

The administration began an effort to build support for the president's
approach, including putting Vice President Dick Cheney on Rush Limbaugh's
syndicated radio program to try to mollify conservatives. Mr. Bush's plan
combines a pledge of enhanced border security, backed by the deployment of up to
6,000 National Guard troops, with the creation of a temporary guest worker
program and an opportunity for illegal immigrants who meet certain standards to
gain legal status.

Mr. Bush spoke by telephone with the House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert of
Illinois, and the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, to press his
argument, while other administration officials reached out to other lawmakers.

White House officials said they expected to work for months to build public
support and win the votes on Capitol Hill to get a bill through the Senate and
then to build a compromise with the House, which has already passed legislation
that emphasizes border security and makes it a felony to be in the United States
illegally.

Mr. Bush plans to travel to Arizona on Thursday to speak again about the issue,
which he has now made a test of his political authority and one of the defining
domestic initiatives of his second term. Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's strategist, is
scheduled to meet privately on Wednesday morning at the Capitol with assembled
House Republicans.

But a day after Mr. Bush delivered a nationally televised address on the issue
from the Oval Office, there was little immediate evidence that he had bridged
the deep divide in his own party or rallied public opinion sufficiently to break
the impasse.

The House majority leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio, gave Mr. Bush credit for
making a public effort on immigration and said he believed a final deal was
possible. But, he said, ''I don't underestimate the difficulty in the House and
Senate coming to an agreement on this.''

House conservatives said they saw little chance to reconcile the emerging Senate
legislation and the House bill.

''The emphasis that he placed on the amnesty provision will not fly, especially
in the House,'' said Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, who is
one of the leaders of efforts to stop illegal immigration from Mexico and
Central America.

Mr. Tancredo and other Republicans said their party was already facing a
difficult midterm election. They said the party would suffer if the president
successfully advanced his proposal, which they said diverged with public opinion
and carried the risk of alienating much of the Republican base.

''It is a nonstarter with the American people, and the Republican Party will pay
the price at the polls,'' said Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of
California.

Mr. Rohrabacher said that some fellow conservatives had found the president's
address condescending and that the remarks ''hinted at maliciousness on the part
of those who are adamant that illegal immigration is bad for the country.''

White House officials said they believed views would soften. ''The issue is not
going to thaw overnight with those with fairly entrenched positions,'' said Dan
Bartlett, the White House counselor.

The Senate on Tuesday began working on its version, which roughly tracks Mr.
Bush's approach.

In the first votes on the bill, senators sided with the president and advocates
of comprehensive overhaul, rejecting by a vote of 55 to 40 a Republican proposal
that the border be certified as secure by the Department of Homeland Security
before new accommodations are made for immigrants.

''Enforcement first may be an attractive campaign slogan, but it is bad
policy,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a member
of the coalition behind the Senate's push for a broad bill that deals not only
with new border enforcement but also with the estimated 11 million illegal
residents of the United States.

Republicans in the House and some in the Senate warned that Senate approval of
that approach could lead to a brutal clash with the House, where many
Republicans steadfastly oppose any legislation that allows temporary workers or
the prospect of citizenship for illegal residents.

''If this bill comes out with no major amendments, then I think we are in a true
train wreck with the House,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of
Georgia.

He and other Republicans said Mr. Bush's plan would be viewed as amnesty by many
Americans, even if illegal immigrants had to pay fines and meet other
requirements, because they would still be rewarded with legal status.

''Whether they say it is amnesty or not, it is amnesty when somebody here
illegally gets a path to citizenship without going back to their home country,''
said Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma.

Mr. Bush and White House officials were emphatic Tuesday that the president
would not approve legislation that did not include a guest worker provision and
the ''path to citizenship'' that he outlined on Monday night. ''I said I want a
comprehensive bill,'' Mr. Bush said when a reporter began asking him whether he
could abide by separate bills.

Characterizing the president's speech as the start of a long dialogue, White
House officials acknowledged in interviews that they faced a tough road ahead if
they expected to change the minds of lawmakers who view the president's
proposals as amnesty.

Tony Snow, the White House spokesman, said during a briefing that amnesty was
what President Ronald Reagan backed in 1986 in supporting legal status for
nearly three million illegal immigrants, not what Mr. Bush was proposing now.

White House officials said Mr. Cheney, who has deep ties to House Republicans
and remains influential among conservatives, would begin to play a larger role
in the debate.

In his interview with the vice president, Mr. Limbaugh highlighted studies
asserting that guest worker provisions would expand the number of foreign-born
citizens by tens of millions.

''Well, if that's the case,'' Mr. Cheney said, ''I would hope that would inform
the debate and that Congress will consider those kinds of impacts very carefully
before they finally pass something. We'll certainly weigh in on it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bill Frist, majority leader, addressing immigration
yesterday. (Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRATION BILL BACKED IN SENATE, SETTING UP CLASH

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24


A compromise Senate bill that would toughen border security and put most illegal
immigrants on a path to citizenship emerged intact Wednesday from more than a
week of impassioned debate. Its advance set up a showdown with the House over
the most substantial overhaul of immigration law in 20 years.

After eight days of amendments and fiery arguments about national identity, the
Senate voted 73 to 25 to limit further debate on the bill, suggesting that it
had broad bipartisan support. The Senate also defeated several last-ditch
efforts to derail the legislation, and members of both parties predicted that it
would pass on Thursday.

The effort to limit the tide of illegal immigration and deal with those illegal
immigrants who are already in the United States will then move to negotiation
between the Senate and the House, which has passed legislation that focuses on
bolstering border security and offers no provision for citizenship. The gulf
between the two versions is so vast, and the politics of immigration so heated
in this election year, that the prospects for a deal remain murky at best.

Many House Republicans vehemently oppose the provisions in the Senate bill that
would legalize most illegal immigrants and create a guest worker program that
would bring 200,000 foreign workers into the country each year. They have vowed
to fight to prevent the legislation from becoming law, and they have the support
of many grass-roots conservatives around the country.

But supporters of the bill hailed the coalition of Republicans and Democrats
that fended off conservatives' repeated efforts to kill it. Enactment of the
measure would also be a victory for President Bush, who has thrown his support
behind it.

''We're now down the homestretch,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of
Arizona, one of the bill's architects.

In December, the House defied Mr. Bush's call for a guest worker program and
passed a border security bill that would criminalize illegal immigrants'
presence in the country. Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado,
said Wednesday that he and other House conservatives remained steadfast in
''support for a security-first approach to immigration.''

So with passage of the Senate legislation on track, senators and Bush
administration officials quickly turned their attention to wooing the House. For
the second straight week, the administration dispatched Karl Rove, the
president's political adviser, to a meeting of House Republicans to press Mr.
Bush's case for an approach broader than theirs.

In an effort to reassure conservatives, administration officials also moved
swiftly to make good on their promise to reinforce beleaguered Border Patrol
agents, telling the House Armed Services Committee that the first contingent of
up to 6,000 National Guard troops would be deployed to the border with Mexico on
June 1.

A number of Senate Republicans, including Mr. McCain, Chuck Hagel of Nebraska
and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, said that they were reaching out to their
House colleagues and that some seemed interested in finding common ground.

The leader of the conservative caucus in the House, Representative Mike Pence,
Republican of Indiana, proposed a bill on Tuesday that would allow illegal
immigrants to become guest workers, though they would not be allowed to become
permanent residents or citizens.

In addition, Mr. McCain said he had spoken to Representative Michael N. Castle,
Republican of Delaware, who told him that several of his colleagues were
interested in supporting a compromise.

But Mr. Castle, a moderate who supports the outlines of the Senate bill, warned
that the negotiations ahead would be extremely hard and said both the measure
produced by the House and the one produced by the Senate might end up being
significantly rewritten.

''There are House members who think the Senate has already gone too far,'' Mr.
Castle said. ''Blending it with the House bill is going to be a very difficult
process.''

''I wish I could tell you that I think a majority of the House is looking for
the same kind of solution'' as the Senate, he said. ''I couldn't say that right
now.''

Senators opposed to their chamber's bill said they were now placing hopes on
their allies in the House.

''We've had some good debate in the Senate,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions,
Republican of Alabama, who is a fierce critic of the measure. ''But it's still
not fixed, in my opinion, in a whole number of ways. What really needs to be
done is for the bill to be pulled down.''

Under the Senate agreement, illegal immigrants who have lived in the United
States for five years or more, about seven million people, would eventually be
granted citizenship if they remained employed, passed background checks, paid
fines and back taxes, and enrolled in English classes.

Illegal immigrants who have lived here two to five years, about three million
people, would have to leave the country briefly and receive a temporary work
visa before returning, as a guest worker. Over time, they would be allowed to
apply for permanent residency and ultimately citizenship.

Illegal immigrants who have been here less than two years, about one million
people, would be required to leave the country altogether. They could apply for
the guest worker program, but they would not be guaranteed acceptance in it.

The legislation would also require employers to use a new employment
verification system that would distinguish between legal and illegal workers. In
addition, it would impose stiff fines for violations by employers, create
legal-immigrant documents resistant to counterfeiting, increase the number of
Border Patrol agents and mandate other enforcement measures.

Critics of the bill did gain some notable victories. They won passage on
amendments that call for 370 miles of fencing along the border with Mexico,
designate English as the national language and reduce the number of foreign
guest workers to be admitted annually to 200,000 a year from 320,000.

Still, the central elements of the bill, the legalization of illegal immigrants
and the guest worker program, emerged almost entirely intact.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jeff Sessions, a fierce critic of the Senate bill, in an
immigration discussion yesterday. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York
Times)(pg. A23)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some in Mexico See Border Wall As Opportunity

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, May 24


To build, or not to build, a border of walls? The debate in the United States
has started some Mexicans thinking it is not such a bad idea.

Nationalist outrage and accusations of hypocrisy over the prospect have filled
airwaves and front pages in Mexico, as expected, fueled by presidential
campaigns in which appeals to national pride are in no short supply. But,
surprisingly, another view is gaining traction: that good fences can make good
neighbors.

The clamorous debate over a border wall has confronted President Vicente Fox of
Mexico at every stop during a visit to the United States that began Tuesday.
While he did not publicly endorse the idea, he made clear that his government
was prepared to live with increased border security as long as it comes with
measures that opened legal channels for the migration of Mexican workers.

Outside his government, several immigration experts have even begun floating the
idea that real walls, not the porous ones that stand today, could be more an
opportunity than an attack.

A wall could dissuade illegal immigrants from their perilous journeys across the
Sonora Desert and force societies on both sides to confront their dependence on
an industry characterized by exploitation, they say.

The old blame game -- in which Mexico attributed illegal migration to the
voracious American demand for labor and accused lawmakers of xenophobia -- has
given way to a far more soul-searching discussion, at least in quarters where
policies are made and influenced, about how little Mexico has done to try to
keep its people home.

''For too long, Mexico has boasted about immigrants leaving, calling them
national heroes, instead of describing them as actors in a national tragedy,''
said Jorge Santibanez, president of the College of the Northern Border. ''And it
has boasted about the growth in remittances'' -- the money immigrants send home
-- ''as an indicator of success, when it is really an indicator of failure.''

Indeed, Mr. Fox -- who five years ago challenged the United States to follow
Europe's example and open the borders and then barely protested when President
Bush announced plans to deploy troops -- personifies Mexico's evolving, often
contradictory attitudes on illegal immigration.

Gabriel Guerra, a political analyst, said the presidential election in July and
the negotiations over immigration reform in Washington have put Mr. Fox on
unsteady political terrain.

Toning down his country's opposition to a wall might be the best way for Mr. Fox
to convince conservatives in Congress to adopt reforms to legalize the estimated
12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States and expand guest
worker programs.

On the other hand, bowing to what critics have described as a ''militarization
of the border,'' without winning legalization programs, could open Mr. Fox to
criticism that he surrenders to the will of the United States. It could also
hurt the aspirations of Felipe Calderon, the candidate Mr. Fox supports to
succeed him in the July 2 election.

''This is a very risky trip,'' Mr. Guerra said. ''If he comes out too strong, he
will rattle the conservatives up there. And if he is not strong enough, he will
be clobbered by his opponents here.''

''Whatever the discourse, it's going to be hard to get it right,'' Mr. Guerra
said. ''I think we might be better served by quiet diplomacy.''

Deputy Foreign Relations Minister Geronimo Gutierrez acknowledged the challenge
facing the president. ''We are in the middle of a Ping-Pong of reactions that
reflect valid concerns on both sides of the border, as well as an unusually
complex moment in the bilateral relationship,'' he said.

Mr. Fox stepped into the middle of the game on Tuesday, beginning a sweep
through Utah, Washington and California, states that have become important
trading partners to Mexico and that have experienced both the pains and benefits
of illegal immigration.

In Utah, where officials estimate that the illegal immigrant population has
tripled since 1990, to 90,000, smatterings of protesters followed Mr. Fox's
visit to Salt Lake City. ''Take care of your own people, so they don't have to
come here,'' some shouted.

Wary of inflaming the passions of American conservatives as the United States
Senate winds down debate over immigration reform, Mr. Fox did not respond
directly to the attacks. But he did have his say.

In his public remarks in Utah, he recognized that Mexico must do more to create
jobs ''so migration becomes a decision and not a necessity,'' and he conceded
that it was the right of the United States to take steps to fortify its borders.

But, he said, it would take more than police enforcement to really resolve the
challenges of illegal immigration. ''A comprehensive reform,'' Mr. Fox said,
''will help both our countries concentrate our forces and resources in tending
to our security and prosperity concerns.''

Analysts said it was unlikely that Mr. Fox would ever speak publicly in favor of
a wall. But in recent communications to Washington, his government, as well as
leaders of all Mexican political parties, have hinted about building walls of
their own.

Last March, in a document published in three of America's largest daily
newspapers, including The New York Times, the Mexican government, along with
leaders of the political establishment and business community, explained its
position on immigration reform.

In that document, the Fox government said that if the United States committed
itself to establishing legal channels for the flow of immigrant workers, Mexico
would take new steps to keep its people from leaving illegally.

''If a guest country offers a sufficient number of appropriate visas to cover
the largest possible number of workers and their families,'' the document read,
''Mexico should be responsible for guaranteeing that each person who decides to
leave does so following legal channels.''

In a column in the Mexican newspaper Reforma, Jorge G. Castaneda, a former
foreign minister, suggested a ''series of incentives,'' rather than law
enforcement strategies to keep Mexicans from migrating. They included welfare
benefits to mothers whose husbands remained in Mexico, scholarships for high
school students with both parents at home, and the loss of land rights for
people who were absent from their property for extended periods of time.

''None of this is inevitable or desirable,'' Mr. Castaneda wrote. ''Nor is it
written that this would necessarily produce a quid pro quo with the United
States.

''But the elites here should reflect on this matter,'' he went on, ''whether we
want something in exchange for nothing?''

There are, of course, still many people in Mexico who staunchly oppose the idea
of walls. Senator Sylvia Hernandez, head of the Senate Foreign Relations
Commission for North America, summed up those feelings, saying: ''Walls do not
speak of dialogue. They speak of closure.'' Rafael Fernandez de Castro, editor
of the magazine Foreign Affairs en Espanol, said, ''We are getting the stick,
but not the carrot.''

The presidential candidates have also hewed closely to the old script.

''The more walls they build,'' said Mr. Calderon, of the conservative National
Action Party, ''the more walls we will jump.'' Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, of
the left-leaning Democratic Revolutionary Party, called Mr. Fox a ''puppet'' of
the United States for his tepid response to the planned deployment of troops
along the border.

Still, signs ofa slow but steady change in attitudes emerge in the most
improbable places.

''It's fantastic,'' said Primitivo Rodriguez, an immigrant activist in Mexico,
when asked about plans to build walls. ''It's the best thing that could happen
for migrants, and for Mexico.''

Mr. Rodriguez, who has served as an adviser to the Mexican government and an
organizer in the United States for the American Friends Service Committee, said
the porous border had for years been an important safety valve of stability for
Mexico's economy, allowing elected officials to avoid creating jobs and even
taking legal measures to stop the migration of an estimated 500,000 or more
Mexicans a year.

Government reports indicate that the Mexican economy has created about one-tenth
of the one million jobs it needs to accommodate that country's growing labor
force. Meanwhile, remittances from immigrants -- estimated last year at about
$20 billion -- have grown larger than some state and municipal budgets.

If Mexicans were really shut inside their country, Mr. Rodriguez said, Mexico
might be forced to get its own house in order.

And if illegal workers were shut inside the United States, Mr. Rodriguez said,
the United States might be forced to give them greater legal rights and pay the
real value of their labor.

''Until now,'' Mr. Rodriguez said, ''the policy of the United States has not
been to close the border to illegal migration, but to detour it. And by
detouring it they have caused unprecedented levels of death, abuse and organized
crime.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mexican men walked Tuesday at the border wall that separates
Agua Prieta, Mexico, from Douglas, Ariz. Some in Mexico see benefits in a wall.
(Photo by Daniel Aguilar/Reuters)
 President Vicente Fox of Mexico in Yakima, Wash., yesterday. (Photo by Robert
Sorbo/Reuters)(pg. A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate, in Bipartisan Act, Passes Immigration Bill; Tough Fight Is Ahead

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 948 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25


The Senate easily passed legislation on Thursday that would give most illegal
immigrants a chance to become American citizens. But the vote did little to
soften opposition to the measure among House conservatives, and Republican
leaders acknowledged that delivering a final bill to President Bush's desk would
be enormously difficult.

The Senate legislation, which also creates a guest worker program and seeks to
tighten control of the border, passed 62 to 36. Twenty-three Republicans and one
independent joined 38 Democrats to win approval of the bill in one of the few
displays of bipartisanship on a major piece of legislation in years.

If the Senate bill's provisions were to make it into law, they would be the most
substantial overhaul of immigration law in two decades. The key architects of
the bill, Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, hailed the bipartisan coalition for withstanding a
slew of amendments intended to sink the legislation.

The bill was also praised by some immigrant advocacy groups, the Roman Catholic
Church and business leaders, who worked to ensure its passage. And Senator Bill
Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, described the vote as ''a success for
the American people'' as well as for the immigrants ''who hope to participate
someday in that American dream.''

Mr. Bush issued a statement praising the Senate for its vote and the House for
passing an earlier immigration bill that he said ''began a national dialogue.''
He urged both chambers to work together to pass a bill that he could sign into
law.

But with Republicans deeply divided over immigration, the bill's future remains
in doubt, reflecting the fluid politics of the issue in a Congressional election
year. House conservatives, who passed a border security bill in December, vowed
to thwart any deal that includes a central provision of the Senate bill: its
call to give most illegal immigrants a chance to become citizens if they meet
certain conditions.

Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House majority leader, said on
Thursday that he was hopeful the Senate and the House could reach a compromise.
But when asked whether that compromise might include a guest worker program, he
said he did not know.

The House bill did not include a guest worker or legalization plan.

''This is a very difficult issue,'' Mr. Boehner said, adding, ''I don't
underestimate the difficulty of the House and Senate trying to come together in
an agreement.''

Conservatives in the House denounced the bill for legalizing illegal immigrants
and creating a guest worker program that would admit 200,000 foreign workers
each year. Representative J. D. Hayworth, Republican of Arizona, called those
provisions an amnesty for lawbreakers and ''a nonstarter.''

But some Republicans in the House said the ground seemed to be shifting, if only
slightly.

They pointed to Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, the leader of
the conservative caucus in the House, who proposed a bill this week that would
allow illegal immigrants to become guest workers, though not permanent residents
or citizens.

They also said the effort to reach a compromise could benefit from a strong push
for a deal by Mr. Bush. And they noted the sizable numbers of Republicans,
including Mr. Frist, who offered vigorous support for the Senate legislation.

All of those developments, they said, may provide enough political cover for
Republicans facing midterm elections in the fall to sign on to a plan that might
include at least a temporary worker program.

Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who supports legalizing illegal
immigrants, said that a week ago he was betting that the House and the Senate
might not even agree to a meeting. On Thursday, he described the chances of a
House-Senate compromise bill as ''50-50.''

Representative Peter T. King of New York, the chairman of the House Homeland
Security Committee, said he also thought there was significant support for a
temporary worker program. ''A good number of Republicans who are opposed to
legalization are willing to support guest workers,'' Mr. King said.

But supporters of the Senate legislation said they hoped to keep their central
principles intact. Democrats said they would not support legislation that did
not place most of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants on a path to
citizenship.

Under the legislation, illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States
for five years or more, about seven million people, would eventually be granted
citizenship if they remained employed, passed background checks, paid fines and
back taxes, and enrolled in English classes.

Illegal immigrants who have lived here two to five years, about three million
people, would have to leave the country briefly and receive a temporary work
visa before returning, as guest workers. Over time, they would be allowed to
apply for permanent residency and ultimately citizenship.

Illegal immigrants who have been here less than two years, about one million
people, would be required to leave the country altogether. They could apply for
the guest worker program, but they would not be guaranteed acceptance in it.

Some immigrant groups criticize the plan for leaving out illegal immigrants who
have been here for less than two years. Others praise the legislation, but not
without qualms.

''It means there is real hope that we will have immigration reform that will
legalize millions of people who are here,'' said Cecilia Munoz, a vice president
of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group. ''But we still
have some real reservations.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A bipartisan group of senators met with reporters yesterday
after the Senate approved an immigration bill. From left were Senators Arlen
Specter, Harry Reid, Joseph I. Lieberman, Chuck Hagel and Lindsey Graham. (Photo
by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Draws Line in Border

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25


The negotiations between the White House and Congress that will follow the
Senate's passage on Thursday of an immigration bill could decide not just how
the nation confronts illegal immigration but also what strain of conservatism
the Republican Party carries into the midterm elections and beyond.

Will it be the compassionate brand Mr. Bush considers crucial to the party's
future, in this case by signaling support for a provision in the Senate bill
that would give most illegal immigrants an opportunity to become legal? Or will
it be the more doctrinaire variety embraced by much of Mr. Bush's party in the
House, one that shuns anything that smacks of amnesty for illegal immigrants and
seeks to criminalize them further?

The 62-to-36 vote in the Senate was a victory for a fragile bipartisan
coalition. [Page A19.]

It will now be challenged in negotiations with the House. While the Senate bill
calls for tougher border security, the establishment of a guest worker program
and a plan to allow millions of illegal immigrants a chance to become citizens
if they meet certain conditions, the House bill is focused on border control.

As on several issues, especially the increase in federal spending under Mr.
Bush, immigration has shown Republicans to be struggling to define what they
stand for.

Since Mr. Bush's influence among Republicans has ebbed with his poll numbers,
the outcome of the intraparty battle rests in large part with the House
leadership, especially the speaker, J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, and the new
majority leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio. They have kept their options open, but
neither has shown enthusiasm for moving substantially toward the Senate
position.

Some well-known Republicans came out in support of a comprehensive plan, and
argued that progress was possible. But it does not help the prospects for a deal
that relations between the administration and Republican leaders on Capitol Hill
are especially chilly at the moment because of the showdown about whether the
Justice Department overstepped constitutional bounds over the weekend by raiding
the office of a member of Congress.

Mr. Bush has made clear that he wants to sign an immigration bill this year, and
his ability to pull his fractured party together on the issue may be the
starkest test yet of whether he has enough remaining strength to drive any
agenda at all for the remainder of his second term.

Mr. Hastert has indicated he will go only so far for the president. He has
expressed some openness to Mr. Bush's guest worker proposals, but has more often
emphasized enforcement against illegal immigrants and their employers, and
securing the border, as top priorities.

That Mr. Bush has chosen to put so much capital behind an issue so divisive
within his own party -- and during an election year in which Republican
prospects seem particularly grim -- has bewildered some conservatives.

''Clearly, Bush is not in tune with where I think the bulk of the Republican
Party is today,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a conservative critic of the president
who worked for Mr. Bush's father's administration and that of Ronald Reagan.
''He's getting hammered on a lot of the talk-radio shows, and I kind of wonder
what the motivation was.''

Mr. Bartlett said he could only surmise that the issue was so close to Mr.
Bush's heart that he was willing to risk further division within his party to
see his plan, or some close version of it, become law.

Mr. Bush's aides and allies are only too happy to agree that the president's
personal conviction is at play.

They clearly see a chance to show the president as leading on principle.

''He's got to lead his country and the party in a direction he thinks is
right,'' Dan Bartlett, the White House counselor, said. But some allies have
argued in interviews that Republicans who are pushing solely to criminalize
illegal workers fail to understand that Mr. Bush's approach will broaden the
party and make it more appealing to Hispanic voters.

''The party can't be a dominant party without reaching out to minority
communities, especially Latinos,'' said Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's chief
strategist in the 2004 campaign, who has also worked for Democrats.

But Mr. Dowd and others acknowledge that the president and Congress will have to
proceed carefully as they try to craft an immigration overhaul that legalizes a
foreign work force, which business leaders want badly, even as it strictly
enforces the law and seals the border.

Some Republicans suggest that the solution is to jettison the citizenship
provisions of the Senate bill, but retain its guest worker program, which was
the focus of Mr. Bush's original proposal. But it is not clear that the Senate
would accept such a deal.

''If we have the right mix of border security and a guest worker or temporary
worker program,'' said Ed Gillespie, a Republican lobbyist who is a close White
House ally, ''we can continue to hold rank-and-file conservative Republicans, as
well as continue to gain votes with Hispanics as we have in the past two
cycles.''

Aides to Mr. Bush liken their strategy to that of arms negotiators during the
cold war: by first bringing the two sides together on matters of agreement and
then moving onto the issues that divide them.

But as of now all indications are that once the negotiators move from the border
security measures that both sides can support to guest worker and citizenship
provisions that conservative House members oppose, they will hit a wall.

And it is unclear how much Mr. Bush, with the lowest approval ratings of his
presidency, will be able to prevail upon hard-liners who face tough campaigns
this fall. Though Mr. Bush's allies argue that those most vocally opposed to
anything beyond border security are in the minority of the party -- and indeed
the country -- they matter especially in elections. And they are angry.

''He's facing an open rebellion,'' said Richard A. Viguerie, a conservative
direct-mail veteran and one of those openly rebelling. ''And he's determined to
force something down the throats of the conservatives that's going to cause them
to abandon him in droves in 2006.''

With so many in the House agreeing with Mr. Viguerie's view, it is difficult to
handicap whether the president will get a comprehensive immigration law before
fall. That possibility has prompted a frenetic round of discussions among
Republicans about whether it would be best to put the House-Senate negotiations
off until after the elections.

There is no clear consensus about how to proceed, but few argue that delay would
be good for Mr. Bush, who badly needs a victory right now.

''If he can bring this one off, it won't necessarily save his presidency,'' said
William A. Galston, a former adviser to President Bill Clinton who is now a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, the liberal-leaning research
organization. ''But if he doesn't, I think he loses everything except the title
of the office.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Reconciling the Bills''The Senate immigration bill would
toughen border security and put most illegal immigrants on a path to
citizenship. In contrast, the House legislation offers no provision for
citizenship. The next step is for Senate and House leaders to meet in conference
to try to reconcile their separate bills.LEGALIZING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTSBill
passed in the SenateWould give illegal immigrants who have lived in the United
States for two years or more a path to eventual citizenship.Bill passed in the
HouseNo such provisions
many conservative leaders in the House have expressed opposition to any
proposals that would allow some illegal immigrants to qualify for
residency.GUESTWORKER PROGRAMBill passed in the SenateCreates a guest-worker
program with a path to legal permanent residence
 200,000 foreign guest workers would be admitted annually.Bill passed in the
HouseDoes not address a guest-worker program, but some conservative House
leaders have shown a willingness to compromise.WORK-SITE ENFORCEMENTBill passed
in the SenateRequires employers to use an electronic employment verification
system that would distinguish between legal and illegal workers.Bill passed in
the HouseAgrees on the need for an electronic employment verification
system.CRIMINAL PENALTIESBill passed in the SenateMandates penalties for
smuggling illegal immigrants, but offers an exception for those who provide them
with ''humanitarian'' assistance, including medical care and housing.Bill passed
in the HouseMakes it a federal crime to live in the United States illegally.
People who help illegal immigrants to enter or stay in the country would also
face criminal penalties.BORDER SECURITYBill passed in the SenateIncludes
provisions for 350 miles of border fencing and 500 miles of vehicle barriers.
Increases the number of Border Patrol agents by 2,400 each year through
2011.Bill passed in the HouseAgrees on the need to strengthen border security
and add fencing, but calls for approximately 700 miles of fencing.(pg. A19)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 19, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Here Illegally, Working Hard and Paying Taxes

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3114 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


It is 5:30 in the evening as Adriana makes her way to work against a flow of
people streaming out of the lattice of downtown stores and office towers here.
She punches a time card, dons a uniform and sets out to clean her first bathroom
of the night.

A few miles away, Ana arrives at a suburban Target store at 10 p.m. to clean the
in-house restaurant for the next day's shoppers. At 5:30 the next morning,
Emilio starts his rounds at the changing rooms at a suburban department store. A
half-hour later, Polo rushes to clean the showers and locker room at a
university here before the early birds in the pool finish their morning swim.

Adriana, 27; Ana, 27; Emilio, 48; and Polo, 52, are all illegal immigrants,
denizens of one of the most easily overlooked corners of the nation's labor
force and almost universally ignored by the workers, shoppers and students they
clean up after.

''It's like you are invisible,'' Adriana said.

Invisible, perhaps, but not hidden. In contrast to the typical image of an
illegal immigrant -- paid in cash, working under the table for small-scale labor
contractors on a California farm or a suburban construction site -- a majority
now work for mainstream companies, not fly-by-night operators, and are hired and
paid like any other American worker.

Polo -- who, like all the workers named in this article, agreed to be
interviewed only if his full identity was protected -- is employed by a
subsidiary of ABM Industries, a publicly traded company based in San Francisco
with 73,000 workers across the country and annual revenues of $2.6 billion.
Emilio works for the Kimco Corporation, a large private company with 5,000
employees in 30 states and sales of about $100 million.

More than half of the estimated seven million immigrants toiling illegally in
the United States get a regular paycheck every week or two, experts say. At the
end of the year they receive a W-2 form. Come April 15, many file income tax
returns using special ID numbers issued by the Internal Revenue Service so
foreigners can pay taxes. Some even get a refund check in the mail.

And they are now present in low-skilled jobs across the country. Illegal
immigrants account for 12 percent of workers in food preparation occupations,
for instance, according to an analysis of census data by the Pew Hispanic
Center. In total, they account for an estimated one in 20 workers in the United
States.

The building maintenance industry -- a highly competitive business where the
company with the lowest labor costs tends to win the contract -- has welcomed
them with open arms. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, more than a quarter
of a million illegal immigrants are janitors, 350,000 are maids and housekeepers
and 300,000 are groundskeepers.

The janitorial industry has been transformed in recent years as a handful of
companies have consolidated by taking over hundreds of small local operators.
That activity has gone hand-in-hand with the steady advance of immigrants, legal
and illegal -- almost all of them Hispanic -- who have been drawn into what was
once an overwhelmingly American-born work force.

Adriana works for Harvard Maintenance, a New York contractor that has some 3,700
janitors and cleans landmarks like Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium. ABM
Industries, Polo's employer, is the biggest contractor in Minneapolis and St.
Paul, with about 35 percent of the market and a portfolio of high-profile
customers that include the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport and some
downtown buildings.

ABM is a coast-to-coast force in the business, responsible for cleaning a
virtual Who's Who of the nation's best-known buildings, at one time even
including the World Trade Center in New York, where several illegal janitors
died on 9/11.

Despite a murky legal status, ABM hired Polo just as it would hire any other
worker. His wife and daughter -- who already worked at the university --
recommended him to their supervisor, who collected Polo's application and
paperwork, gave him an ABM uniform and put him on the payroll. He makes $11.75
an hour, has health insurance and gets two weeks of paid vacation every year.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 made it a crime for companies to
knowingly hire illegal immigrants. Employers say they do their utmost to comply.

''We don't ever knowingly hire undocumented workers,'' said Amy Polakow, a
spokeswoman for Kimco.

Harvard Maintenance issued a statement: ''While we are dismayed that an employee
allegedly has submitted fraudulent documentation,'' it said, ''we screen all new
hires and make sure they provide proper paperwork.''

Buying the Documents

  A written statement from ABM said that ''if an individual were found to have
presented falsified work authorization documents to gain employment, their
employment would be terminated.''

Still, in many cities it would be hard to put together a cleaning crew without
resorting to an illegal work force.

Adriana used to work for ABM too, she said. But last year Harvard Maintenance, a
rival contractor that entered the Minneapolis market two years ago, won the
contract to clean her building. Adriana guesses that except for a couple of
legal immigrants from Ecuador and a couple of Somalis, the rest of the three
dozen or so janitors on her shift are illegal immigrants.

And when the contractor changed, the work force in her building did not. ''All
the workers,'' Adriana said, ''are the same ones.''

Illegal immigrants operate in a kind of parallel employment universe, structured
in many ways like the legal job market but with its own rules and procedures.

To begin with, acquiring the necessary documentation to work is a routine
transaction these days. In Minneapolis, one only has to mill about for a few
minutes in a Kmart parking lot known to immigrants and a young Guatemalan with a
Patron tequila hat will approach on his bike and quietly offer to help.

A set of Polaroid photos can be purchased for $10 at the photo outlet- sporting
goods store up the street -- a quick snap against a white backdrop tucked among
the soccer balls and jerseys of national squads from all over the world.

The documents themselves cost $110. Within two hours of having received the
photos, the Guatemalan is cycling back into the parking lot to make the drop of
the ID package. It includes a green card with the customer's photo and
somebody's fingerprints, along with a Social Security card, for which the number
was plucked out of thin air.

Some illegal immigrants do not even need the green card. Until the late 1990's,
Mexican illegal immigrants typically arrived in Minnesota with their birth
certificate and Mexican voting card, which could be used to obtain a legal
Minnesota state ID.

But getting a Social Security number could be a little more complicated in the
old days. Lily, 38, another janitor cleaning a building downtown, knew no one in
Minneapolis when she arrived illegally from Guatemala 14 years ago. So when a
neighbor said she needed papers, she called the smuggler who brought her across
the border at his home in Mexico.

He asked her to make up a nine-digit number, which she did by combining the date
she left Guatemala and the date she arrived in the United States two months
later. She sent him some photos and $75 and received her fake papers by return
mail.

Documents in hand, getting a job is straightforward. A common first step for new
immigrants is to apply to a temporary work agency for the first job. But as
immigrant communities have grown, new arrivals have been able to tap into
networks of friends, relatives and former neighbors to help them navigate the
United States and jump straight into a permanent job.

When Adriana and her sister arrived in Minneapolis from Mexico in 1998, their
mother was waiting for them. She paid the smuggling fee of $1,700 per person and
helped Adriana into her first job at the building where she worked and where she
knew the supervisor well.

''You know, it's the chain,'' Adriana said. ''I just got a job in my building
for a cousin.''

In some industries with many illegal immigrants, like construction, farming and
landscaping, employers often turn to labor contractors to assemble crews of
workers -- transferring onto them the responsibility of checking the paperwork.
That helps establish deniability in case of an immigration raid.

By contrast, the big building maintenance contractors do much of the hiring
themselves. But some still distance themselves from the job market itself by
delegating hiring to supervisors in individual buildings -- often immigrants
themselves -- who will receive the job applications, help fill in official
documents and copy supporting papers.

Adriana said she never had to step into ABM's offices, which are across the
Mississippi River from downtown Minneapolis. She said that the supervisor knew
she did not have proper papers.

Cheaper Labor

  Starting about 30 years ago, as illegal immigration began to swell, building
maintenance contractors in big immigrant hubs like Los Angeles started hiring
the new immigrant workers as part of a broader effort to drive down labor costs.
Unions for janitors fell apart as landlords shifted to cheaper nonunion
contractors to clean their buildings. Wages fell and many American-born workers
left the industry.

Between 1970 and 2000, the share of Hispanic immigrants among janitors in Los
Angeles jumped from 10 percent to more than 60 percent, according to a
forthcoming book by Ruth Milkman, a sociologist at the University of California,
Los Angeles, titled ''L.A. Story: Work, Immigration and Unionism in America's
Second City.'' (Russell Sage Foundation, August 2006.)

The pattern repeated itself as immigrants spread throughout the rest of the
country. By 2000, Hispanic immigrants made up nearly 1 in 5 janitors in the
United States, according to Ms. Milkman's research, up from fewer than 1 in 20
in 1980.

When the Service Employees International Union started to reorganize the
industry in the late 1990's, it adapted its approach in some cities to appeal to
illegal workers. For instance, union contracts in Los Angeles include clauses
instructing employers to contact the union if an immigration official ''appears
on or near the premises'' and barring the employers from revealing a worker's
name or address to immigration authorities.

Building maintenance contractors and those who contract their services
underscore their efforts to keep illegal immigrants off the payroll. But beyond
that they are reluctant to discuss the presence of illegal immigrants in the
janitorial work force.

In a statement, Target pointed out that its stores were cleaned by outside
contractors. ''As in the past,'' it read, ''if we find any illegal behavior by
our vendor, we will immediately terminate their contract.''

Mr. Mitchell said ABM had ''put in place policies, procedures and ongoing
managerial training for compliance with immigration law.'' Harvard Maintenance's
statement added that ''we believe our screening programs currently in place are
among the best in the building services industry.''

For all these efforts, however, it is remarkably easy for illegal immigrants to
get a regular, above-board job.

The law requires employers to make workers fill out I-9 ''employment
eligibility'' forms and provide documents to prove they are legally entitled to
work.

But the employers benefit from one large loophole: they are not expected to
distinguish between a fake ID and the real thing. To work, illegal immigrants do
not need to come up with masterpieces of ID fraud, only something that looks
plausible. ''To bring a criminal prosecution we need to show an employer
knowingly hired an illegal immigrant,'' said Dean Boyd, a spokesman at
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the branch of the Department of Homeland
Security that enforces immigration rules. '' 'Knowingly' is the key word.''Yet
the standard of plausibility is not particularly tight. ''Some of these
documents are so visibly wrong that you don't need to be an expert on what a
Social Security card looks like,'' said Michael Mahdesian, chairman of the board
of Servicon Systems, a private contractor that cleans aerospace and defense
facilities as well as office buildings in California, Arizona and New Mexico.

Mr. Mahdesian said Servicon was more careful than other contractors -- forced by
the nature of its clients in the military industry to make more rigorous checks
to keep illegal immigrants out. But he said that each time Servicon took over a
cleaning contract in a new office building, it found that 25 percent to 30
percent of the workers it inherited from the previous contractor were working
illegally, and had to let them go.

''Most companies in this industry doing commercial office buildings take the
view that it is not their job to be the immigration service,'' Mr. Mahdesian
said.

Companies have little to fear. The penalty for knowingly hiring illegal
immigrants includes up to six months in jail -- or up to five years in
particularly egregious cases -- and fines that range from $275 to $11,000 for
each worker. Yet fines are typically negotiated down, and employers are almost
always let off the hook. Only 46 people were convicted in 2004 for hiring
illegal immigrants; the annual number has been roughly the same for the last
decade.

In a rare raid, about 50 illegal workers -- including a handful of ABM janitors
-- were arrested at the Minneapolis-St. Paul airport in 2002, according to Tim
Counts, a spokesman for the Minnesota office of immigration and customs
enforcement. With one exception -- the Wok & Roll Chinese restaurant in the
airport terminal -- no charges were brought against the companies that hired
them, Mr. Counts said.

Pushing for Unionization

  Despite becoming a fixture of the labor market, illegal immigrants remain
vulnerable at work. Wages declined as illegal immigrants entered the janitorial
labor pool. Janitors' median earnings fell by 3 percent in real terms between
1983 and 2002, when the Labor Department changed the definitions of building
maintenance jobs and other occupations.

Meanwhile, earnings across all occupations rose by 8 percent, after accounting
for inflation. Though unionization has helped push janitors wages back up in
many cities, they remain lower in markets with many illegal immigrants in the
labor force.

In New York City, janitors cleaning commercial buildings make $19 an hour. Mike
Fishman, president of the Service Employees International Union's local in New
York, points out that the union never lost ground in the city, and it is still
unusual to find illegal immigrants cleaning office buildings there.

In Southern California, by contrast, unions were decimated in the 1980's, and
only started recovering in the late 1990's. According to Mike Garcia, president
of the union's main local in the state, Southern California's unionized janitors
earn between $8.50 and $11 an hour.

Unscrupulous employers still victimize illegal workers frequently. Veronica, a
39-year old illegal immigrant from Mexico, had been working for a temporary
employment agency for about a year, crating boxes of beauty products for Aveda,
when the agency fired her, then rehired her under a different Social Security
number to avoid paying her for the vacation time she had earned.

''They don't want you to gain seniority,'' she said.

When Adriana started her cleaning job downtown, she said, the supervisor
recorded her on the payroll under a different name. But rather than change the
entry onABM's payroll, he asked her to buy a set of documents with the new name
-- forcing her to live for years with two identities, one for work and one for
everything else.

Adriana only managed to recover her real name by tagging it on as a middle name
when Harvard took over the contract at her building and she reapplied for her
job. Now, the name on her state ID is similar to the one on her Social Security
card and paycheck.

Many get caught using bad Social Security numbers and lose their jobs. The
Social Security Administration sends ''no match'' letters every year to about
eight million workers and about 130,000 employers. Though the letter warns
employers not to fire workers because of the mismatch, many do.

Lily, the Guatemalan immigrant, used to clean the offices of General Mills in
suburban Minneapolis for a building contractor named Aramark. Earlier this year,
she said, the company fired her and other workers, stating that it had received
a letter from the government claiming the workers' Social Security numbers were
wrong.

''They wanted to get rid of the people the supervisor didn't like,'' Lily said.

In a statement, Aramark said it ''fully complies with federal laws and
guidelines regarding employment eligibility, and has procedures in place to
confirm employment eligibility of our employees. Should we discover that an
employee does not have proper documentation, their employment with Aramark is
terminated.''

It added that it did not fire workers simply on receipt of a ''no match''
letter, but gave workers up to 90 days to fix the problem.

The one thing that illegal immigrants did not have to worry about, at least
until recently, was the immigration police.

But life has been getting tougher. Minnesota, for instance, tightened its
requirements to award state ID's or driver's licenses.

And, lately, immigration authorities have been pursuing illegal immigrants more
aggressively. Since April, there have been high-profile raids at several work
sites across the country, including IFCO Systems, a pallet and shipping
container maker, where agents apprehended nearly 1,200 illegal workers and some
managers.

Since Oct. 1, 2005, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has arrested more than
2,100 people in ''work site enforcement investigations,'' compared with 1,145
for the entire previous fiscal year and 845 in fiscal 2004. It is also bringing
more serious charges -- such as harboring illegal immigrants and
money-laundering of illicit profits -- against employers who hire them.

Agents have also been sweeping through Minneapolis and other cities, seizing
immigrants who had been served with deportation orders and expelling them from
the country.

But immigrants adapt. Pablo Tapia, the leader of a church-based community group,
has been holding tutorials for immigrants on how to avoid being deported. One
rule is ''don't open the door'' if immigration authorities come knocking.
Another is ''stay calm and do not run'' if agents raid the workplace.

''Just keep working,'' Mr. Tapia recommends. ''If you run, it can be used
against you in court.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adriana works for Harvard Maintenance cleaning buildings. She
said most of the co-workers on her shift were illegal immigrants, too.
Polo, an illegal immigrant, cleans buildings in Minneapolis for ABM Industries.
He earns $11.75 an hour, with health and vacation benefits. (Photographs by
Allen Brisson-Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A14)Chart: ''Laboring in the
U.S.''A snapshot of the work force.Illegal immigrants: CooksIN THOUSANDS, 2005:
436% OF TOTAL: 20%Illegal immigrants: Construction laborersIN THOUSANDS, 2005:
400% OF TOTAL: 25Illegal immigrants: Maids and housekeepingIN THOUSANDS, 2005:
342% OF TOTAL: 22Illegal immigrants: Grounds maintenance workersIN THOUSANDS,
2005: 299% OF TOTAL: 25Illegal immigrants: CarpentersIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 277% OF
TOTAL: 14Illegal immigrants: Janitors and building cleanersIN THOUSANDS, 2005:
262% OF TOTAL: 11%Illegal immigrants: Agricultural workersIN THOUSANDS, 2005:
247% OF TOTAL: 29Illegal immigrants: Painters, construction and maintenanceIN
THOUSANDS, 2005: 167% OF TOTAL: 22Illegal immigrants: CashiersIN THOUSANDS,
2005: 158% OF TOTAL: 5Illegal immigrants: Driver/sales workers and truck
driversIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 151% OF TOTAL: 4Weekly earnings*JANITORS1985:
$4362005: $417ALL WORKERS1985: $6372005: $665The janitorial work force in the
U.S.1970HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 2.4%NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 62.4%NON-HISPANIC BLACKS:
22.8%1980HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 4.6NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 64.9NON-HISPANIC BLACKS:
19.01990HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 11.8NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 57.3NON-HISPANIC BLACKS:
17.82000HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 18.4NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 50.0NON-HISPANIC BLACKS:
14.8*data are median figures for full-time workers in 2006 dollars(Sources by
Pew Hispanic Center [ranking]
Bureau of Labor Statistics [earnings]
 L.A. Story" by Ruth Milkman. [work force])(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Woven Into America

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 182 words



To the Editor:

Douglas S. Massey writes that ''the Mexican-American border is not now and never
has been out of control'' (''The Wall That Keeps Illegal Workers In,'' Op-Ed,
April 4).

A conservative estimate is that 500,000 illegally crossed that border in 2005.
So roughly 10,000 undocumented people are entering the United States every week.

Who are these people? Mostly hard-working people in search of jobs, we assume,
but the honest answer is we don't know.

Only 10 percent of them are apprehended.

The total absence of any concern about national security in Mr. Massey's article
is notable. His discussion of border policy ranges from 1980 to the present,
with no recognition that the threats to national security today are more serious
than in previous decades.

Is it far-fetched to assume that among the 10,000 to cross that border this
week, there may well be a few intent on doing this country harm?

On some issues, the Bush administration has shamelessly exploited the post-9/11
danger. But it has shown no alarm over this broken border.

Donald E. Smith
Wayne, Pa., April 4, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 161 words



To the Editor:

The value of the illegal immigrant to our economy is his illegality. If you
understand this fact, you understand the problem.

So long as he retains his illegal status, he can be paid less, denied health
care and dismissed at will. This is what those corporations that employ
undocumented workers value the most. And this is why a ''guest worker'' program
will never succeed.

When today's illegals become tomorrow's federally recognized guest workers, the
jig will be up. Because of their legitimate status, guest workers will have to
be treated like human beings. This will not sit well with those employers who
thrive on illegals today.

By adopting a ''guest worker'' program, we will be creating millions of
legitimate workers, and those hard-pressed employers will be forced to seek out
(and ''invite'' into our country) another illegal group willing to be paid less,
denied health care and dismissed at will.

George Moss
Columbus, Ohio, April 10, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Workers Divided Over Federal Crackdown

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Contributing reporting for this article were Terry
Aguayo and Jennifer Saldarriaga in Miami; Tim Eaton in Austin, Tex.; Laura
Griffin in Dallas; Karen Hastings in Alamo, Tex.; Barbara Novovich in Marathon,
Tex.; and Andrea Zarate in Homestead, Fla.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 21


Alirio Lares, a waiter in South Beach here, had been hopeful lately that
Congress would grant some form of amnesty to illegal immigrants like him. But
after federal officials began a crackdown this week on employers of illegal
immigrants, Mr. Lares's optimism faltered.

''Where I work, they don't check papers,'' Mr. Lares, 43, who moved from
Venezuela 12 years ago, said on Friday. ''But of course I am afraid because I am
working illegally and I know they can fire me anytime.''

In its first days, the crackdown resulted in the detention of more than 1,100
illegal immigrants in 26 states and the arrest of seven managers and former
managers of a pallet supply company, bringing praise from groups favoring
stricter enforcement of immigration laws but prompting dread and resentment
among immigrant workers and some employers.

Alexandra Perez, a mother of three who cleans houses and blow-dries hair in
Weston, Fla., said she thought the authorities were trying to intimidate the
many immigrants who had closely followed the political debate over their status
and watched or joined recent rallies pressing for legal status and citizenship.

''What happened yesterday, I think, is a tactic that they are using to scare us
so we don't keep on pushing to get rights,'' said Ms. Perez, 38, who came from
Venezuela 10 years ago. She was referring to an announcement on Thursday by
Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, that the stepped-up
enforcement would continue.

Some employers also criticized Mr. Chertoff's plan, under which Immigration and
Customs Enforcement will increase the number of worksite enforcement agents and
efforts to root out businesses that submit fake Social Security numbers for
workers.

''If we didn't have them, we'd really be in a bind,'' Roy Pace, a mechanical
contractor in Austin, Tex., said of immigrant workers.

Jamie Zuieback, a spokeswoman for the immigration enforcement agency, said that
the crackdown was aimed at employers who ''egregiously and specifically violate
the law,'' and that the agency believed most employers ''do want to follow the
law and be in compliance.''

In Plant City, Fla., where thousands of immigrants tend citrus groves and berry
fields, Melissa Gonzalez, who helped found the group Immigrants United for
Freedom, praised Mr. Chertoff for singling out those who hire illegal workers.

''They're the higher power,'' Ms. Gonzalez said. ''They're the ones that have
slaves working for them. They should be the ones to be in trouble. A lot of them
treat their workers badly, pay them badly and only take advantage of these
people.''

Billy L. Heller Jr., chief executive of Pacific Tomato Growers in Palmetto,
Fla., said companies were not equipped to verify their workers' status, a task
he said belonged to the government, not employers.

''Does this mean I have to have people spend the whole day on a government
Internet site double-checking numbers?'' said Mr. Heller, whose company grows
produce in Florida, California, Georgia, Virginia and Mexico. ''We are not
document police, and we can't discriminate. If folks present what looks to be
reasonably legitimate, then we have to act as if it is.''

Mr. Heller and others said the crackdown would make them lobby harder for a
guest worker program that would allow illegal immigrants to work temporarily in
the United States and possibly apply for asylum. Some advocates for immigrants
said they suspected that, in fact, Mr. Chertoff's announcement was meant to
increase pressure on Congress to approve a guest worker program while also
placating conservative voters who prefer stricter enforcement.

''This is political cover for the guys who want to keep the conservative right
happy but also want to keep business happy,'' said Greg Schell, a lawyer for the
Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Lake Worth, Fla.

Several illegal immigrants said they should be left alone by the authorities
because they paid taxes.

''I have proof that I have contributed to this country by paying my taxes,''
said Sabina Noriega, 38, who came here from Mexico 16 years ago and works on a
farm in Homestead, south of Miami. ''I don't plan to run from this. Why would I
run if I'm not doing anything wrong? They are jumping the gun, but I think it's
because something good is soon to come.''

Diana Posadas, who arrived from Guatemala on a tourist visa 13 years ago and
works in a Homestead pizzeria, said the crackdown made her frustrated and sad
but also hopeful that change -- possibly including amnesty for some immigrants
-- was near.

''What I think is that they know that something good is going to happen,'' Ms.
Posadas said, ''and they are trying to kick as many people out now to minimize
the number of people they would favor in the end.''

Lydia Gonzalez Welch, an executive board member with the League of United Latin
American Citizens in Dallas, said she, too, questioned the timing of the
announcement.

''Here it is on the forefront of a movement when the community is being
empowered to stand up for themselves,'' Ms. Welch said, ''and all of the sudden
the fear of God is put into them.''

Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in
Miami, predicted that the crackdown would drive illegal immigrants ''further
underground where they are invisible and untraceable.'' Ms. Little said her
office had received far more calls lately from immigrants afraid of taking their
children to school, seeking medical treatment and attending church.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Workers Find Support in a Growing Network of Assistance Centers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1313 words


When Mulugeta Yimer, a taxi driver from Ethiopia, thought his employer was
cheating him several years ago, he did not complain to the government; he went
instead to a worker center called Tenants and Workers United.

The center helped Mr. Yimer and other drivers in Alexandria, Va., win the right
to keep more of their fares. Not only that, it has helped child care workers win
a 70 percent raise and day laborers win back pay for minimum-wage violations.

Tenants and Workers United is one of a fast-growing number of centers that are
helping the nation's 20 million immigrant workers. In many ways, these centers
are doing what labor unions, fraternal organizations and settlement houses did
decades ago for newcomers to the United States.

''We are all from different countries and our English is broken and nobody
understands us,'' said Mr. Yimer, who has driven a taxi for eight years. ''But
the workers center was willing to listen to us. They provide us expertise. They
provide us a lawyer. They support us.''

There are more than 140 worker centers nationwide, up from roughly 25 a decade
ago. The centers played a pivotal role in getting tens of thousands of workers
to the giant demonstrations seeking a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants
and protesting a House bill that would turn illegal immigrants into felons.

Some of these centers focus on a particular nationality, like Korean Immigrant
Worker Advocates in Los Angeles and the Chinese Staff and Workers Association in
Manhattan, while some focus on an industry, like the Mississippi Poultry
Workers' Center and the New York Taxi Workers Alliance.

Many illegal immigrants -- day laborers, gardeners, laundry workers, restaurant
deliverymen -- have asked these centers for help on wage problems because the
nation's legal services offices are barred from representing them. Moreover, the
centers often fill the role once held by labor unions, which represent less than
6 percent of low-wage workers.

''You have a vacuum created by the decline of organized labor,'' said John Liss,
executive director of Tenants and Workers United. ''What we're seeing is a new
immigrant working class creating their own voice.''

The centers teach immigrants English and how to file wage complaints. They have
persuaded communities to build shelters for day laborers, who often stand in the
rain and cold without bathroom facilities. They have helped push for higher
minimum wages in several states, and some centers have won more than $1 million
in back pay for immigrants who were cheated.

''These centers have taken off because we're seeing an increase in the number of
workers in precarious employment situations,'' said Janice Fine, a professor of
labor relations at Rutgers and author of ''Worker Centers: Organizing
Communities at the Edge of the Dream'' (2006).

''Over the past decade we've seen the biggest influx of immigrants in our
nation's history and at the same time a decline in resources for wage and hour
enforcement at the state and federal level,'' Professor Fine said. ''These
centers have become a safety net that's tried to enforce the laws.''

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that supports stricter immigration controls, voiced ambivalence about
these centers.

''The bad part is these groups become lobbies for illegal aliens,'' Mr.
Krikorian said. ''On the other hand, they help people stiffed out of their
wages. That can serve a purpose because it raises the price of hiring illegal
aliens, and the more it costs to hire illegal aliens, the more employers might
turn to legal workers.''

Many centers survive hand to mouth, relying on foundation money, government
grants, grass-roots fund-raising and, to a small degree, dues. The Chicago
Interfaith Worker Rights Center charges its 150 members $5 each to join.

''These centers have gotten smarter over the years,'' said Jennifer Gordon,
founder of the Workplace Project in Hempstead, N.Y., one of the first worker
centers. ''They are turning victories that would have just been a back-pay award
into something more.''

After accusing a chain of sneaker stores of wage violations, Make the Road by
Walking, based in Brooklyn, helped the chain's 95 workers unionize. The
Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a Florida-based group of farmworkers, pressed
Taco Bell into making its tomato growers pay their workers more, and has begun a
similar campaign against McDonald's. The Restaurant Opportunities Center pressed
two fashionable Manhattan restaurants, Cite and the Park Avenue Cafe, to pay
$164,000 in back wages and give workers three days of sick pay and one week of
vacation each year.

At Tenants and Workers United, Sylvia Portillo, the group's health coordinator,
assists immigrants who ran up large medical bills when they went to emergency
rooms with broken bones or severe illnesses. Ms. Portillo, a nurse who left El
Salvador in the 1980's, has persuaded several charities and hospitals to reduce
immigrants' bills.

Each year, she oversees a health fair that attracts several hundred immigrants
who receive free tests for blood pressure, H.I.V. and diabetes. Similarly, the
Taxi Workers Alliance provides free medical tests to drivers as they wait in
line at Kennedy Airport.

''Five years ago everyone went to the emergency room for everything,'' Ms.
Portillo said. ''Now we educate the people. We tell them the emergency room is
only for emergencies, maybe a broken leg.''

Tenants and Workers United has helped persuade the Alexandria City Council to
give Mr. Yimer and other drivers the right to change taxi companies. The group
also persuaded the City of Alexandria to raise wages for several hundred child
care workers, and it has tracked down employers when immigrants were not paid
the promised amount or when their paychecks bounced.

''Often all it takes is a phone call to employers to get back pay,'' Professor
Fine said. ''Because there is so little government enforcement in low-wage
industries, many employers are counting on nobody to be there to stop them.''

Leaders of many worker centers say they doubt they will ever achieve sweeping
legislative or economic change because their finances are so weak and because so
many of their members are illegal immigrants who are scared to speak up.

''It's a mistake to think of the workers center movement as being a replacement
for organized labor,'' said Bill Beardall, a co-founder of the Central Texas
Immigrant Worker Rights Center in Austin, Tex., which began as a legal services
office that helped farmworkers.

Professor Fine's research found that ethnic organizations established one-fourth
of the centers, while churches and religion-based organizations founded another
fourth.

The Chicago Interfaith Worker Rights Center recently helped a Chinese worker who
said he had been held in virtual slavery by a Michigan restaurant, and a Mexican
roofer who said his employer left him for dead in a Dumpster after he fell.

The center has printed brochures in Spanish, Russian and Polish that tell
workers their rights. It also gives leadership classes.

''We try to get workers to think more systematically,'' said Jose Oliva, the
center's executive director. ''That means creating some workers' organizations
that have power and can negotiate some changes.''

The four worker centers in Chicago helped push through a state law that requires
agencies that use day laborers to register and pay workers' compensation and
unemployment insurance taxes. The centers also advised a state commission that
examined the higher fatality rate for Hispanic workers.

''These centers have brought some serious labor violations to the attention of
the Department of Labor,'' said Esther Lopez, deputy chief of staff to Gov. Rod
R. Blagojevich of Illinois. ''Without their help, some of these workers would
not come forward.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mulugeta Yimer, second from far right, a taxi driver, at a
meeting in Alexandria, Va., with members of Tenants and Workers United, which
helped Mr. Yimer and other drivers win the right to keep more of their fares.
(Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants And the Economy

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 203 words



To the Editor:

Barry R. Chiswick is correct in saying ''there are no low-skilled jobs that
American workers would not and do not do.''

As a migrant fruit picker in the late 1970's and 1980's, I was disgusted to hear
people say Americans won't do this kind of work. It was and is a lie.

I worked alongside a group of Americans, many descendants of the Dust Bowl Okies
and Arkies, who wanted to continue picking fruit. But they couldn't. An
unchecked influx of illegal immigrant workers in the fruit orchards not only
kept wages down, year after year, but also encouraged the widespread use of farm
labor contractors who provided their own crews.

Jobs became harder and harder to find. I clearly remember a summer in the
mid-1980's, when I went from orchard to orchard in eastern Washington looking
for a job picking cherries. Everywhere I went, I was told there were no jobs.
And every ladder was occupied by an immigrant.

It's fine to be sympathetic with immigrants desperate for low-wage jobs in
America. But I just wish everyone would stop saying that they are doing jobs
Americans refuse to do.

Toby F. Sonneman
Bellingham, Wash., June 3, 2006

The writer is an author of a book about the Okie migrants in the West.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Hiring Sites For Illegal Workers

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 178 words



To the Editor:

Your Aug. 13 editorial ''The Same Old Note on Immigration'' states that a law
proposed by Steve Levy, the Suffolk county executive, requiring companies doing
business with the county to certify that its work force includes no illegal
immigrants, has ''put out the unwelcome mat to the newcomers who are trying to
make their way in Suffolk.'' The editorial also states that past efforts to have
the police enforce immigration laws were ''misguided,'' and that Mr. Levy should
consider setting up hiring sites for ''day laborers.''

What the editorial does not mention is that illegal immigrants are here
illegally and it is against the law for them to work here. Companies that hire
illegal immigrants are breaking the law and suppressing wages of American
workers.

Law-breakers should be ''unwelcome.'' The police should enforce laws. To have
Mr. Levy set up hiring sites would be spending taxpayer dollars to support
illegal activity.

What next? Should we support sites where drug addicts could gather to more
easily get drugs?

Robert F. LaPorta
Dix Hills

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Workers Supplant U.S. Ones, Report Says

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 334 words


New illegal immigrants accounted for 56 percent of the increase in employed
workers in the United States in the five years after 2000, and competition from
these immigrants contributed to a sharp decline in employment of teenage and
young adult Americans, according to a labor market study released yesterday.

The survey found that in the five-year period, foreign-born workers, including
both legal and illegal immigrants, made up 86 percent of the net increase in the
total number of employed workers, the highest share for immigrants ever recorded
in this country.

At the same time, the number of employed native workers ages 16 to 34 fell by
more than 1.5 million. The study contends that 90 percent of the job deficit for
young Americans would be erased if American teenagers and young adults held the
jobs that immigrants now hold.

The study was carried out by Andrew Sum, Paul Harrington and Ishwar Khatiwada
from the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston
and was published by the Center for Immigration Studies, a group in Washington
that advocates reducing immigration.

Last month a study by the Pew Hispanic Center, another Washington research
organization, concluded that there was no nationwide pattern of displacement of
American workers by immigrants.

Several economists noted that the past five years had been marked by a slow
economic recovery that created unusually few jobs for all workers in the United
States. They said that several factors contributed to declining employment among
young people and that an increase in the number of youths going to college was
one.

Employment rates have plummeted for young black men without high school
diplomas.

''They face tremendous barriers, but immigrant competition is not the biggest
one,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a
Washington group that focuses on labor issues. ''If immigrant competition were
to drop significantly, they would still have big problems.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Leaders Work to Resuscitate Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


Republican and Democratic Senate leaders promised on Tuesday to work together to
revive the sweeping immigration bill that was killed nearly three weeks ago amid
partisan bickering on procedural grounds.

Emerging from a meeting at the White House with President Bush late Tuesday
afternoon, Senator Bill Frist, the Republican leader, and Senator Harry Reid,
the Democratic leader, said they were confident they could resolve their
differences and get a bill passed by Memorial Day.

But participants said that even at the meeting Mr. Frist and Mr. Reid argued
over terms for breaking the stalemate, which essentially comes down to how many
amendments can be added to the bill. And even should the Senate pass the
compromise, which includes provisions for border security, a guest worker
program and options for citizenship, it would face stiff opposition in the
House.

Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, the House majority leader,
said Tuesday that he opposed the Senate legislation, which would put a vast
majority of illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship.

''I don't think that would be supported by the American people,'' Mr. Boehner
said of the Senate bill while speaking with reporters.

The senators who met with Mr. Bush did not address Mr. Boehner's comments, and
said they remained confident that an immigration bill with the stiffer border
protections that conservatives want and a path to legalization and even
citizenship for illegal workers here would become law by the end of the year.

''In the very near future, we will bring that bill back on the floor of the
United States Senate,'' said Mr. Frist, of Tennessee.

Mr. Reid, of Nevada, a regular critic of Mr. Bush, praised the president for
bringing the two sides together and said, ''Senator Frist and I have to work out
a way to handle the procedural quagmire that the Senate is, and we're going to
try to do that.''

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, one of about a dozen senators
at the meeting, said the session was significant because Mr. Bush seemed to be
talking about ''not automatic citizenship but the path to citizenship,'' though
Mr. Boehner said that he had no stomach for such a provision and that he hoped
Mr. Bush would ultimately not support the Senate bill.

Though senators from both parties said afterward that Mr. Bush seemed to support
the bill in principle, they said he did not flat out endorse it.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said in an interview that
Mr. Bush would have to take a more forceful stand to clear up any ambiguity, but
White House officials have said that he is trying to stay away from endorsing
any one piece of legislation so he can help broker compromise with the House,
which is pushing a bill focusing only on enforcement.

Under the Senate plan, illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States
for five years or more would eventually be granted citizenship if they remained
employed, had background checks, paid fines and back taxes and learned English.

Illegal immigrants who have lived here two to five years would have to travel to
a United States border crossing and apply for a temporary work visa, but they
would also be eligible for permanent residency and citizenship over time.
Illegal immigrants who have been here less than two years would have to leave
the country, though they could apply to be in a temporary worker program.

The Senate bill collapsed amid partisan feuding over whether conservatives
should be allowed to offer amendments to the legislation.

Republicans, along with Mr. Kennedy, insisted that votes should be allowed on
amendments. Mr. Reid blocked votes on the amendments, saying they were intended
to gut the legislation.

The Democratic leadership has insisted on assurances that Democratic members of
the Judiciary Committee could serve as negotiators with the House over a final
bill, an approach that Mr. Frist has rejected.

Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, said Tuesday that Mr. Reid and Mr.
Frist had a brief argument over the terms as Mr. Bush sat between them. A senior
Senate aide who was briefed on the meeting afterward said the argument came to a
close with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, pointing to such partisan
bickering as an example of what is wrong with Washington. Mr. Martinez said
afterward that ''they just were back and forth'' and that ''the meeting moved to
a loftier discussion after that.''

Mr. Martinez added that the president said, ''You know, I don't know what you
all do over there, but I understand the difficulty now.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Patrick J. Leahy, left, and Harry Reid, right, with his
aide, Jim Manley, leaving the White House. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Are America

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 348 words


Warnings of a crippling immigrant boycott did not come true yesterday. The
economy survived. But what may not survive -- we hope -- is people's willful
misunderstanding of the nature of the immigrant-rights movement.

The worst among our citizens and politicians are eager to depict illegal
immigrants as criminals, potential terrorists and alien invaders. But what we
saw yesterday, in huge, peaceful rallies in Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Chicago,
Denver, New York, Atlanta and other cities, were regular people: the same types
of assimilation-minded moms, dads and children we wistfully romanticize on
holidays devoted to, say, St. Patrick and Columbus.

If these extraordinarily positive events were a protest of anything, it was the
idea of the immigrant as temporary and unwelcome guest worker. The marches flew
in the face of theories that undocumented workers want nothing but to labor
unnoticed and separate from the nation that employs them to make its meals, trim
its hedges and slaughter its beef.

These immigrants, weary of silent servitude, are speaking up and asking for
something simple: a chance to work to become citizens, with all the obligations
and opportunities that go with it.

Our lawmakers, to their discredit, have erected barriers within barriers,
created legal hurdles and bureaucratic hoops, and dangled the opportunity for
lowly guest-worker status without the citizenship to go with it. It is an
invitation to create a society with a permanent underclass deprived of any
ladder to something better. It is a path to creating a different, and lower,
vision of our country and ourselves.

It is not only the border-obsessed Minutemen who should be shamed by yesterday's
joyous outpouring. Lawmakers who have stymied comprehensive immigration reform
with stalemated name-calling and cold electoral calculation should listen up. A
silent, shadow population is speaking with one voice. The message, aimed at
Washington but something the whole country should hear, is clear: We are
America. We want to join you.

It's a simple message. It should be sinking in by now.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona County Uses New Law To Look for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1082 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, May 9


To people who say round up more illegal immigrants, Sheriff Joe Arpaio of
Maricopa County here has an answer: send out the posse.

On Wednesday, the posse, a civilian force of 300 volunteers, many of them
retired deputies, are to fan out over desert backcountry, watching for smugglers
and the people they guide into these parts.

Already, a small team of deputies roams the human-trafficking routes to enforce
a nine-month-old state law that makes smuggling people a felony and effectively
authorizes local police forces to enforce immigration law.

Not only do deputies charge the smugglers, but many of their customers have also
been jailed. That has drawn criticism from several quarters, even the politician
who sponsored the law and has generally supported Sheriff Arpaio's position.

''That was not our intent,'' said the sponsor, State Representative Jonathan
Paton, a Republican, who added that he would prefer to detain smuggled
immigrants under trespassing laws, a move lawmakers are considering under a
package of bills intended to crack down on illegal immigration.

Take a border state wrestling with the effects of a surge of illegal immigrants.
Add Sheriff Arpaio and his unorthodox, well-chronicled brand of law enforcement
-- he forces male and female inmates to wear pink underwear, among other
often-questioned tactics. And watch the sparks fly.

''I have compassion for the Mexican people, but if you come here illegally you
are going to jail,'' said Sheriff Arpaio, an elected Republican, whose county is
the fourth most populous in the country and among the fastest growing.

To avoid suggestions that deputies practice racial profiling, the sheriff has
ordered them to find probable cause, usually a minor traffic infraction, before
pulling over suspect vehicles.

Lawyers and advocates for the jailed immigrants, several of whom are challenging
their arrests, take a different view.

''It's really an attempt to intimidate immigrants by threatening and imposing
incarceration,'' said Victoria Lopez, executive director of the Florence
Immigrant and Refugee Rights Project.

Peter Schey, a lawyer from Los Angeles hired by the Mexican consulate here to
represent some of the detainees, said, ''This sheriff is not the director of
homeland security, but that is how he is acting.''

Sheriff Arpaio sought and received an interpretation of the statute by County
Attorney Andrew P. Thomas, who said the illegal immigrants could face charges
that they conspired with smugglers.

Mr. Thomas, also a Republican, sent a letter on Tuesday to the State Department
protesting what he considered Mexico's intrusion into Arizona affairs by
retaining Mr. Schey and trying to challenge the law.

Representative Paton said he believed that Maricopa was the sole jurisdiction
enforcing the law, with other law enforcement authorities telling him that they
lacked the manpower to do so or questioned whether such actions would hold up in
court.

Smuggling illegal immigrants is a federal crime. Arizona adopted its law last
year out of frustration that Washington had not done enough to control illegal
crossings. In recent years, central Arizona has emerged as a prime crossing
point.

A majority of illegal immigrants caught by the Border Patrol are returned to
their home countries -- in the case of Mexicans, almost immediately -- without
charges.

In the eight weeks since the team of deputies formed, 146 people have been
arrested, Sheriff Arpaio said, with 12 suspected of being smugglers. Four have
pleaded guilty and under a deal with prosecutors received three years'
probation. They will be referred to federal authorities for deportation.

Cases are pending against the remainder, with 48 seeking dismissal of the
charges. A conviction under the state law could mean a two-and-a-half-year
prison term.

Mr. Schey, executive director of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional
Law, an advocacy group, said nothing in the law authorized charging illegal
immigrants with smuggling. In court papers, he suggested that the entire law was
invalid because it ''pre-empts'' federal authority to regulate and enforce
immigration law.

The deputies, meanwhile, continue their patrols. Normally, Deputy Chris Scott
spends his days kicking in doors and barreling through houses, serving search
warrants and performing the other high-energy tasks of a special weapons and
tactics officer. But before dawn one morning this week, on ''illegal immigrant
interdiction'' patrol, Deputy Scott saw a pickup with a broken tail light drift
over the center line of a desolate road near Gila Bend. He flicked on the
emergency lights of his unmarked sport utility vehicle and pulled over the
pickup.

Barely mentioning the reason for the stop -- state law prohibits driving over
the center line or with a broken light -- he peppered the driver and five
passengers with questions: ''Licencias?'' ''You have identification?'' ''These
guys work with you very long?''

After several backup deputies arrived, they determined that the men were not
being smuggled, although some appeared to be here illegally and were turned over
to the Border Patrol.

''I think word is getting out, and they are skirting around us,'' Deputy Scott
said later as he cruised without finding much suspicious activity.

The Border Patrol has not taken a position on the state law or the efforts to
enforce it, a spokesman, Jesus Rodriguez, said.

It may be easy to dismiss the sheriff as grandstanding, and he promises a
television-friendly event on Wednesday to begin expanded posse patrols, but last
November he won a fourth term. An editorial in The Arizona Republic that
criticized the patrol as ''knee jerk'' also credited him with an ''unerring
ability to gauge public opinion.''

A statewide poll of 380 voters from April 20 to 23 by Arizona State University
and KAET-TV in Tempe showed broad support for more stringent border security,
with 57 percent favoring building a fence there.

Opinion split over making it a serious crime to be here illegally, with 51
percent opposed to such a move and 48 percent opposed to making it a felony to
help illegal immigrants. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or
minus five percentage points.

Sheriff Arpaio's cellphone ringtone plays ''My Way'' by Frank Sinatra. ''I have
enough confidence with the Maricopa community,'' he said in his 19th-floor
office here, the walls decorated with clippings of news coverage. ''If not,
that's the way the ball bounces.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 12, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about the use of an Arizona immigration law
by the sheriff in Maricopa County to arrest both illegal immigrants and people
who smuggle them misstated the role of Peter Schey of the Center for Human
Rights and Constitutional Law and the nature of a legal challenge he filed.
Although he was called into the case by the Mexican Consulate, he represents one
defendant; he was not hired by the consulate to represent several. He has
challenged the validity of the county's arrest policy, not the law itself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deputy Michael Danner searches near Gila Bend for illegal
immigrants. Deputy Chris Scott, right, checks a suspected hideout, all under the
leadership of Sheriff Joe Arpaio, below, of Maricopa. (Photographs by Rick
Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-Embassy Driver Is Indicted In People-Smuggling Scheme

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 12


A Filipino immigrant who was a driver at the Micronesian Embassy in Washington
was indicted here on Friday on charges of stealing passports from the embassy
and doctoring them to sell to other Filipinos seeking to enter the United
States.

Enrico Calderon, 41, of Springfield, Va., charged up to $15,000 each for the
doctored passports, according to the indictment. Unlike travelers with passports
from the Philippines, those with Micronesian passports are not required to get
visas from the United States to enter the country.

The indictment also cites five specific cases, although a spokesman for
Christopher J. Christie, United States attorney for New Jersey, said Mr.
Calderon and two co-conspirators had smuggled about 50 people into the country
since 2004.

Also named in a related indictment was Roehl Rivera, 41, of Cabanatuan City in
the Philippines. He is charged with escorting illegal immigrants into the United
States, using a Micronesian passport himself, and being paid $300 to $400 for
each person.

Seth Kosto, an assistant United States attorney, said Mr. Calderon would buy
one-way tickets for the immigrants, most of whom were Filipino; then he and Mr.
Rivera would gather them in a Hong Kong hotel room and teach them basic facts
about Micronesia, a tiny island nation of about 108,000 people.

If questioned by United States Customs and Border Protection agents, the
would-be immigrants were told to say that they were merely visiting the United
States and planned to buy return tickets at the end of the trip, the court
papers said.

From Hong Kong, the smugglers would take their charges on nonstop flights to
Newark Liberty International Airport, according to the indictment.

It was after one such flight in January that customs agents noticed alterations
in the passport of Mr. Rivera and one of the people he was escorting. When
questioned, they quickly admitted to traveling on false documents, and Mr.
Rivera implicated Mr. Calderon in the scheme, according to court papers.

If found guilty, Mr. Calderon and Mr. Rivera each face 3 to 10 years in prison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Slow War On Human Trafficking

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1839 words


FOR at least three years, the United States Department of Justice has identified
Long Island as one of 21 regions across the country where trafficking in human
beings -- abducting or coercing people, usually illegal immigrants, into a kind
of indentured servitude -- is rampant. In 2005, the Justice Department awarded
more than $1 million in grant money to combat the problem in Nassau and Suffolk.

But more than a year after the Long Island Anti-Human Trafficking Task Force was
organized, not one trafficker operating on Long Island has been arrested, and
just one victim, a Chinese woman forced to work in a Wantagh brothel that was
disguised as a massage parlor, has been freed from traffickers.

Officials of the task force offered a variety of explanations for what they
acknowledged were scant results on Long Island. Trafficking investigations are
complex and time-consuming, they said, and they depend on testimony from victims
who are terrified of the police. That the New York criminal code includes no
statute specifically aimed at human trafficking further complicates their
efforts, they said.

So the task force has spent the last year training police officers, sharing
intelligence and fine-tuning mechanisms for amassing evidence, the officials
said. ''I do expect that there are big cases coming soon,'' said Demetri M.
Jones, an assistant United States attorney and the chairwoman of the task force.

In addition to the Justice Department, the task force includes three other
federal agencies -- the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement division of the Homeland Security Department, and the Labor
Department -- and the State Department of Labor, the Nassau and Suffolk police
departments and district attorney's offices, and two private organizations, Safe
Horizon and Catholic Charities.

Each of the county police departments got $360,000 from the federal government
last year for training. Catholic Charities, which helps victims gain legal
residency and find jobs and housing, and Safe Horizon, a New York City-based
national organization that trains nongovernmental agencies to assist victims,
received grants totaling about $400,000 for their efforts.

Just how big is the problem they are trying to combat? Florrie Burke, a senior
director at Safe Horizon, responded to the question with a deep sigh. ''We don't
know for sure,'' she said. ''And that's true anywhere.''

Ms. Burke said Long Island is a natural location for human trafficking because
of its proximity to New York City, where a number of cases have been documented,
and to the airports and seaports where immigrants arrive.

''But it's all supposition, and that's what all locations are, until you find a
real case,'' she said.

Safe Horizon did find one case on Long Island, but it was in 2001, long before
the task force was formed. The group's tip to federal authorities eventually led
to the arrests in June 2004 of Mariluz Zavala and her husband, Jose Ibanez, who
pleaded guilty last winter to federal crimes including conspiring to obtain
forced labor. They are now in prison.

Prosecutors said the couple charged would-be immigrants up to $13,000 each to be
smuggled into the country from Peru using phony tourist visas, and then forced
them to live in cramped, squalid conditions in houses in Coram, Brentwood and
Amityville and to hand over their passports and almost all their earnings, under
the threat of being turned in to immigration officials.

Despite the precedent of that case and the rapid growth of Long Island's
Hispanic immigrant population, county police officials said their efforts are
concentrated mostly on massage-parlor brothels run by and employing Asians.
Nassau has raided two dozen in the past year; Suffolk has raided eight.

''We're cleaning up the community,'' said Capt. Steven Skrynecki, the Nassau
police representative on the task force. ''And while we're doing that, a
secondary motive is to look for and rescue the victim.''

As a result of those raids, police officials contend that a majority of human
trafficking victims on Long Island are young Asian women who are forced to live
in unhealthy conditions, work long hours and surrender all or most of their
earnings.

By their very nature, they cannot be counted with any accuracy. But private
groups estimate that as many as several hundred people may be laboring under
duress or in captivity in Nassau and Suffolk, working in restaurants and
sweatshops, on farms, as house cleaners or as prostitutes.

The one victim that the task force has rescued is a 37-year-old woman from
China, where the government generally penalizes couples who have more than one
child. The woman, who asked to be identified only by her nickname, Tracy,
because she fears retaliation, said she fled China in May 2000, leaving behind
her husband and son, after government officials forced her to abort her second
child and undergo sterilization.

''I had nowhere else to go,'' she said in an interview, aided by a police
interpreter.

Her family agreed to pay $12,000 to a so-called snakehead -- a human smuggler --
to bring her to America, she said, and she spent the next five years working 12
hours a day, 6 days a week in Chinese restaurants for $250 a week to repay the
money.

After developing back and leg problems from the long work hours, she said, she
met a woman in Flushing who came from her native region in China who told her
about easier, better-paid work in massage parlors.

When she reported for work at a Wantagh parlor in February 2005, she said, the
owner ordered her to complete every massage with a sexual act. When Tracy
refused, she said, the woman threatened to have her deported. ''I was afraid,''
Tracy said. ''I couldn't go back to China.''

She was arrested for prostitution twice in the next four months, but was
initially too afraid of deportation to tell the police her story. It took her
lawyer, a detective and a prosecutor -- all promising her that she could remain
in the country -- to change her mind.

''My lawyer said this is a free country, and if I tell the truth, nothing bad
will happen,'' she said. ''She said, 'We're all here to help you.' ''

Tracy now has temporary legal residency and is trying to help the police
persuade other women to come forward. ''I tell them: 'Go to the authorities.
They will help you. I don't want you to go through what I went through, living a
life of being scared every day. And I want you to stand up for yourself,' '' she
said through the interpreter.

Still, the owner of the Wantagh massage parlor has never been arrested. ''That
was early on in our quest to infiltrate these groups,'' Captain Skrynecki said
of the case. ''We've now gotten better at moving up the chain. But
unfortunately, even though we have moved up a few notches, we haven't had a
cooperating victim since then.''

He and other task force members said that in addition to language and cultural
barriers, a mutual lack of trust stood in the way, as it does for many of the 32
federally sponsored task forces around the country.

Victims tend to be suspicious of all officials because of the rampant official
corruption and brutality in the countries many of them come from, Ms. Burke of
Safe Horizon said. And those victims who may nonetheless be willing to talk
often meet with skepticism from American police.

''The victim frequently starts out as a defendant, so their credibility is an
issue,'' Captain Skrynecki said. ''They could just be making it up to get out
from under a criminal charge. So we need to go a little deeper and corroborate
the story.''

Ms. Burke said that putting a woman in handcuffs and interrogating her at a
police station was hardly conducive to assuaging her fears of captors or of the
police.

''We're not quite where we need to be on Long Island yet,'' she said.

Moreover, she said, more attention needs to be paid to non-Asian victims. But
growing hostility toward immigrants, particularly in Suffolk and particularly
aimed at Hispanics, is a major stumbling block.

''You have government officials trying to please constituents, and law
enforcement being leaned on also,'' Ms. Burke said. ''And then it's hard for
people to wrap their heads around the idea that these people they think are
criminals and want to deport are actually victims of a horrible trafficking
scheme.''

She said that although massage-parlor brothels full of young Asian women stand
out as obvious targets on Long Island, she has encouraged the police to also
investigate restaurants, farms, sweatshops, topless bars and domestic-service
agencies.

''Targeting one population is not a great idea,'' she said. ''We have to look at
the work situations, rather than an ethnic population.''

Task force members said they were starting to look at topless bars with dancers
from Eastern Europe and Russia, but those generally involve organized crime, a
far tougher nut to crack than a small-time trafficking ring.

''It's a difficult proposition all around,'' said Detective Lt. Edward Reilly,
commander of the Suffolk police force's kidnap investigations team.

That is why his department is also trying to gather evidence against the
exploiters of Hispanic day laborers, and is recruiting social service
organizations to help find victims.

Lieutenant Reilly said Suffolk officers thought they were close to winning over
another Chinese woman who was beaten by her employer at a Centereach massage
parlor, but she balked at cooperating with them and is now in federal custody,
awaiting deportation. ''The important thing is that she's no longer in the hands
of traffickers,'' he said.

Most successful human trafficking cases, including the one involving Ms. Zavala
and Mr. Ibanez, are prosecuted under a set of federal laws that were renewed
last year, providing stiff penalties for traffickers.

New York State lacks any similar legal tool, so state prosecutions must use laws
against kidnapping, robbery, coercion or unlawful imprisonment, all of which
require a victim's cooperation and testimony, said Joseph Brogan, a Nassau
prosecutor on the task force.

Mr. Brogan said his office has been confronted with several cases in the past
few months where none of the existing statutes fit the offense and no victim
would testify.

''We're dealing with interstate and international boundaries in some cases,'' he
said. ''The real challenge is gathering sufficient evidence.''

The State Legislature is considering a bill that would directly address human
trafficking. Jane Manning, a lawyer and program officer with Equality Now, a
human rights advocacy group that favors the bill, said it would define sex and
labor trafficking as crimes under state law, set stiff penalties and provide for
restitution and assistance for victims.

''Until you have something on the books that names this as a crime,'' Ms.
Manning said, ''honestly, some police officers who come in contact with a
trafficking situation may not even recognize that's what they're looking at.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Human Smuggling, for a Hefty Fee

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 284 words


President Bush's plan to tighten border security is up against a human smuggling
industry that the United Nations estimates is a $10-billion-a-year global
enterprise.

Every year, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants cross into United States
territory. Many are moved by a clandestine class of ''migration merchants.''
Some, like ''coyotes'' at the Mexican border, are the equivalent of small
businesses. Others, like the ''snakeheads'' in China, are part of extensive
international organizations that move people along complex land-air-sea routes.

Fees are shaped by market demand, competition and underlying costs. Illegal
immigrants transiting through the Dominican Republic to Puerto Rico, for
example, pay more if they travel the 70 miles between the two islands by
speedboat than by the slower, more crowded vessels called yolas.

Fees have gone up as the United States has cracked down on its borders after the
Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. The cost to cross the Mexican border has increased about
50 percent, in part because improved surveillance technology has made the trip
more difficult.

Fees that the Fujianese in southern China pay have tripled over the last two
decades, largely because smugglers know they are willing to pay. Northern
Chinese pay only about half what the Fujianese pay, partly because they have an
easier time obtaining legitimate visas under false pretenses. They then overstay
the visas.

The smuggling fees here are estimates compiled from interviews with officials
from the Department of Homeland Security's immigration and customs enforcement
division, smugglers from the Caribbean and Asia, illegal immigrants, academic
researchers and published reports.   JENNIFER 8. LEE


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: Arrow thickness indicates upper end of estimated fee a
person pays to be smuggled into the United States from each country or
region.Canada (non-Canadians): $3,000Northern China: $35,000Fujian, China:
$60,000Mexico: $3,000Guatemala: $7,000Eastern Europe: $30,000India, Pakistan:
$30,000Dominican Rep., Suriname, Brazil, Peru, Ecuador: $12,000Map of the world
highlighting above locations.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: New Trial Ordered In Smuggling Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 94 words


A federal appeals court has ordered a new trial for the truck driver convicted
in a 2003 human smuggling attempt that ended 100 miles southwest of Houston and
left 19 illegal immigrants dead. The ruling means the driver, Tyrone Williams,
could once more face the death penalty. A three-judge panel of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled Wednesday that the verdict was
invalid because the jury had failed to decide whether Mr. Williams was directly
responsible for the deaths. Mr. Williams's lawyer said he would appeal to the
Supreme Court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Enforcement to Benefit Detention Companies

BYLINE: By MEREDITH KOLODNER

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Private Prisons Expect a
Boom; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words


As the Bush administration gets tougher on illegal immigration and increases its
spending on enforcement, some of the biggest beneficiaries may be the companies
that have been building and running private prisons around the country.

By the fall of 2007, the administration expects that about 27,500 immigrants
will be in detention each night, an increase of 6,700 over the current number in
custody. At the average cost these days of $95 a night, that adds up to an
estimated total annual cost of nearly $1 billion.

The Corrections Corporation of America and the Geo Group (formerly the Wackenhut
Corrections Corporation) -- the two biggest prison operators -- now house a
total of fewer than 20 percent of the immigrants in detention. But along with
several smaller companies, they are jockeying for a bigger piece of the growing
business.

Corrections Corp. and Geo are already running 8 of the 16 federal detention
centers.

With all the federal centers now filled and the federal government not planning
to build more, most of the new money is expected to go to private companies or
to county governments. Even some of the money paid to counties, which currently
hold 57 percent of the immigrants in detention, will end up in the pockets of
the private companies, since they manage a number of the county jails.

''Private companies are positioning themselves as suppliers, and are positioned
to take the majority of new beds available,'' said Anton High, an analyst with
Jefferies & Company, the brokerage firm. He has recommended that his clients buy
Corrections stock.

Louise Gilchrist, vice president for marketing and communication at Corrections
Corp., said her company would have no trouble meeting the federal government's
needs. ''We believe as their demand increases, they will need to rely on
providers who have bed space available,'' she said. ''The company feels it is
well positioned.''

Wall Street has taken notice of the potential growth in the industry. The stock
of Corrections Corp. has climbed to $53.77 from $42.50, an increase of about 27
percent, since February when President Bush proposed adding to spending on
immigrant detention.

Geo's stock rose about 68 percent in the period, to $39.24 a share from $23.36.

The increasing privatization of immigrant detention has its critics. Immigrant
advocates say health care at some centers has fallen short. They contend that
some centers have treated immigrants as if they are criminals -- restricting
their movements unnecessarily, for instance -- even though many are still
awaiting a ruling on their legal status.

Because those who cross the border illegally are not considered criminals, they
are not automatically assigned a lawyer. But, the advocates say, there have been
repeated instances when immigrants have not had access to working phones to call
for legal assistance.

''Private prisons have unleashed an entrepreneurial spirit in this country that
is unhealthy,'' said Judith Greene, director of the nonprofit research group
Justice Strategies. ''Standards are violated on a regular basis in order to cut
costs.''

The companies counter that they are living up to their contractual obligations.
''If you develop a reputation as a company that cuts corners, you will lose your
contracts,'' said Steve Owen, director of marketing at Corrections. The
allegations, he added, ''are completely false.''

Immigration experts say the need for more prison space is not a result of an
increase in the number of people entering the United States illegally. According
to the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, the number of unauthorized immigrants
arriving in this country is down by about 50,000 a year from the late 1990's.

Instead, the increase in spending on detention is part of a crackdown on illegal
residents living in the United States as well as an expected increase in the
number of immigrants captured as they try to cross the border.

The government also plans to detain more immigrants, especially those from
countries other than Mexico, while they await their hearings, instead of
releasing them on their own recognizance. This effort to end what is known as
''catch and release'' means more capacity is needed immediately.

''The issue is not how many immigrants,'' said Joe Onek, a senior policy analyst
at the Open Society Institute. ''There's incredible pressure on the
administration from members of its own party and from some sectors of the
population to crack down.''

Revenues for the prison management companies will grow not only because of the
rising number of detainees, but also because profit margins are higher at
detention centers than prisons, analysts say.

Last year, the Correction Corp.'s revenue from holding immigrants jumped 21
percent, to $95 million from $70 million in 2004. Geo, the second largest prison
operator, received $30.6 million last year, about the same as the year before.

While the companies would not comment on profit margins from their immigration
business, Wall Street analysts said that detention centers produce profit
margins of more than 20 percent.

That compares with margins in the mid-teens for traditional prison management,
they said, because prisoners are provided with more costly services like high
school degree programs and recreational activities.

Even with the expected growth in the number of immigrant detainees, the main
source of income for the private prison companies will continue to be revenue
from state and federal governments for housing regular inmates.

The state and local prison population totaled more than 1.5 million last year,
with about 100,000 of those held in privately managed prisons. But the number of
state and federal inmates rose by just 1.4 percent from June 2004 to June 2005,
slower growth than the average 4.3 percent annual increases from 1995 to 2000.

By contrast, the number of immigrants in detention is expected to increase by
about 20 percent over the next three months alone.

Federal immigration contracts generated about $95.2 million, or 8 percent, of
Correction Corp.'s $1.19 billion in revenue last year, and about $30.6 million,
or 5 percent, of Geo's $612 million total income.

In the first quarter of 2006, Corrections Corp.'s detention revenue rose to
$25.5 million. The federal immigration agency is now the company's third-largest
customer, after the federal Bureau of Prisons and the United States Marshals
Service.

The detention market is projected to increase by $200 million to $250 million
over the next 12 to 18 months, according to Patrick Swindle, a managing director
at Avondale L.L.C., an investment banking firm that has done business with both
Geo and Corrections Corp. He said that a company's capacity would play an
important role in how much of the market it would be able to capture.

The company ''currently has 4,000 empty beds in their system,'' Mr. Swindle
said. ''They are bringing on an additional 1,500 beds within the border
region.''

''Reasonably, about 3,000 to 4,000 beds could be made available'' for immigrant
detention, he said.

Having empty cell space that can be made available quickly is considered an
advantage in the industry since the government's need for prison space is often
immediate and unpredictable. Decisions about where to detain an immigrant are
based on what is nearby and available. Immigration officials consider the
logistics and cost of transportation to the detention center and out of the
country.

''We can use the beds whenever and wherever we like,'' said Jamie Zuieback, a
spokeswoman for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''We are
funded for a certain number of beds but there are many beds around the country
that are available and it depends where and when we need them if we use them.''

While companies do not release how much space they currently have available,
analysts estimate that Geo has about 1,500 empty places. To increase capacity,
the company announced in June that it was building a 576-inmate expansion of the
875-inmate Val Verde Correctional Facility it owns in Del Rio, Tex.

George C. Oley, Geo's chief executive, said in a statement at the time of the
Val Verde announcement: ''We are moving forward with the expansion of this
important facility in anticipation of the expected increased demand for
detention bed space by the Federal Government.''

Despite the two companies' dominance, they face competition from smaller players
in the corrections business. A new federal detention center set to open in Texas
at the end of July will be run by the Management and Training Corporation, a
privately owned company based in Utah.

The Cornell Companies, based in Texas, currently operates two centers that hold
detainees. It is the third-biggest private corrections company, though
significantly smaller than Corrections Corp. and Geo, controlling just 7 or 8
percent of the market, according to Mr. Swindle.

''What's great about the detention business,'' Mr. High of Jefferies said, ''is
not that it's a brand-new channel of demand, but that it is growing and
significant.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Holding centers for people accused of illegal immigration are
built in 24-hour-a-day construction at Raymondsville, Tex. (Photographs by
Theresa Scarbrough for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''An Increasing
Population''Private prison companies are poised to benefit from an expected
increase in the number of illegal immigrants detained.Graph tracks Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
detention capacity and budget since 2005.Detention centersFor the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs EnforcementMap of the U.S. shows the locations
of:Corrections Corporation of AmericaGeo GroupCornellFederally operated(Sources
by Department of Homeland Security
 the companies)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judges Zero In On Treatment Of a Detainee

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words


In sharp questioning, a three-judge panel yesterday challenged arguments by
federal officials seeking dismissal of a Pakistani man's suit charging that
because of his religion, race or national origin, he, like others, was held for
months after 9/11 in abusive solitary confinement before being cleared of links
to terrorism and deported.

In the mahogany and marble splendor of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in
Lower Manhattan, lawyers for former Attorney General John Ashcroft and other
government officials argued that the officials were entitled to immunity from
the lawsuit filed by the man, Javaid Iqbal, who had been known as ''the cable
guy'' to his Long Island customers before he was swept into a federal detention
center in Brooklyn as were hundreds of other Muslim immigrants in the New York
area.

From the start of yesterday's two-hour hearing, one of the judges, Jon O.
Newman, showed particular impatience with the narrow legal defenses offered by
the defendants in the case, which lawyers for Mr. Iqbal say seeks accountability
for what they call serious constitutional violations by the nation's highest law
enforcement officials. It is the first case of its kind to reach the appellate
level.

Judge Newman was especially scathing in questioning the lawyer for Dennis Hasty,
formerly the warden of the Metropolitan Detention Center, where Mr. Iqbal and
184 others designated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as ''of high
interest'' were confined in a special unit where a 2003 Justice Department
Inspector General's report found widespread abuse.

Mr. Hasty's lawyer, Michael L. Martinez, had argued in his brief that even if
everything alleged in the lawsuit were true -- as the appellate judges must
assume at this stage of the litigation -- Mr. Iqbal's treatment ''never
approached the level of a due process violation.''

''Beatings?'' Judge Newman asked. ''Exposure to air-conditioning after standing
in the rain? Needless strip-searches? Never approached a due process violation?
If I thought your client really believed that, I've got to tell you, I'd be
really troubled.''

Judge Robert D. Sack was equally acerbic in commenting on a defense assertion
that the complaint failed to link Mr. Hasty personally to what was going on at
the detention center.

''He is the warden,'' Judge Sack said. ''If he didn't know what was going on --
I'm boggled twice in one argument.''

Mr. Martinez replied that five years after 9/11 it was easy to criticize
decisions made at the time. He cited legal precedents holding that ''the courts
are ill-equipped to second-guess what goes on in prisons.''

Earlier, Judge Newman interrupted Lauren Resnick, the lawyer representing two
former officials of the F.B.I., Michael Rolince, the agency's former chief of
counterterrorism, and Kenneth Maxwell, a former special agent in charge of the
F.B.I. office in New York, as she argued that the complaint was not specific
enough in linking the F.B.I. supervisors to what another federal bureaucracy was
doing in the detention center.

''You don't think your clients had a major role in the decision not to release
these plaintiffs?'' Judge Newman asked. He was referring to findings by the
Inspector General that detainees picked up on called-in tips were often
designated ''high-interest'' and held in highly restrictive conditions until the
F.B.I. cleared them, a process that took months because it was not a high
priority.

''Are you telling me that they were unaware that they were being held in highly
restrictive conditions?''

Instead of answering, Ms. Resnick kept repeating the legal position that the
complaint itself was deficient in the way it made its accusations.

Earlier this year, the federal government agreed to pay $300,000 to another
plaintiff in the same suit, settling his claim without admitting to wrongdoing.
The government, which in a lower federal court lost its effort to dismiss Mr.
Iqbal's lawsuit without testimony, is seeking to overturn that ruling. It also
lost a similar motion in a companion lawsuit brought as a class action by other
former detainees.

Mr. Iqbal eventually pleaded guilty to credit-card fraud and was deported to
Pakistan.

Many legal arguments yesterday concerned Supreme Court rulings on governmental
immunity. Judge Sack and Judge Jose A. Cabranes suggested that a case now
pending before the Supreme Court might affect the question, and asked for memos
by Oct. 9 on whether a delay would be appropriate.

Gregory G. Garre, a Justice Department lawyer representing Mr. Ashcroft and
Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the F.B.I., said that context was
everything in judging whether Mr. Iqbal's treatment, as alleged, violated any
known constitutional rights.

''If there's anything that the court can take judicial notice of,'' he said, ''
it's that 9/11 was the most deadly foreign attack on domestic soil.''

In his rebuttal on behalf of Mr. Iqbal, whose lawsuit was brought by the Urban
Justice Center, Alexander A. Reinert argued that questioning officials was
necessary to determine how 9/11 actually affected Mr. Iqbal's treatment.

Mr. Iqbal's lawsuit charges that Mr. Ashcroft and others created a
discriminatory policy that was ''applied to Mr. Iqbal in some of the most
horrific conditions of confinement,'' he said, and that they knew or should have
known it.

''They may believe the facts will disprove it,'' added Mr. Reinert, of Koob &
Magoolaghan, ''but that's exactly what discovery is for.''

At the close of the hearing, Judge Newman questioned Mr. Garre, as the sole
Justice Department lawyer, about another assertion in Mr. Hasty's brief. It
contends that Mr. Iqbal's lawsuit itself shows there were ''only minimal
restrictions'' on his ability to practice his religion, since he complained that
his Koran had been routinely confiscated and that guards had banged on his cell
door when he tried to pray, which demonstrated that he had been allowed to pray
and to have a Koran.

In a tone of outraged incredulity, Judge Newman repeated the phrase ''only
minimal restrictions,'' first pressing Mr. Hasty's lawyer to say whether that
was really his client's position or ''just hyperbole by his lawyer,'' and
finally asking Mr. Garre whether that was the government's position.

Mr. Garre replied, ''Specific abuse like that is not something that's condoned
by the United States.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's the President's Turn

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 610 words


If President Bush wants serious immigration reform as badly as he says he does,
he had better step up soon to get his party united behind him. Otherwise the
best hope in a generation to fix the immigration system will end up as
legislative road kill, steamrollered by partisanship and pecked at by crows
cawing, ''No amnesty!''

The bill that so badly needs rescuing was being hailed in the Senate only
Thursday as a near-miracle of bipartisan good sense and good will. A gaggle of
senators from both parties held a giddy news conference to announce a ''huge
breakthrough'': a compromise on a vastly ambitious bill to tighten the borders,
create a guest worker program and open a path to citizenship for most of the up
to 12 million illegal immigrants now in the United States.

Hours later the deal was off the table, derailed by procedural bickering that
went into the night and continued Friday. Democrats accused Republicans of
lining up a series of hostile amendments that would have distorted the carefully
drafted compromise beyond recognition. Republicans accused Democrats of holding
the bill -- and hopes for immigration reform this year -- hostage to politics.
The minority party, they claimed, wanted to block all amendments because it was
less interested in having a good bill than in having a good issue with which to
hammer Republicans this election year.

No one but the senators has any interest in who did what to whom. The Democrats'
motives were undoubtedly less than pristine. But Democrats also had a lot to
worry about. The House had already passed a hard-line bill that would make the
current immigration situation worse on every possible front. It's not surprising
that some Democrats wanted some sort of guarantee that the bill the Senate was
to send out -- which was already very much a compromise -- would not be watered
down further.

Senators held dueling news conferences Friday, pointing fingers and ratifying
their collective failure. Then everyone scattered for a two-week recess.

It was a crushing blow for those who had hoped for a workable immigration bill
this year. Those who have been urging the comprehensive, tough-but-humane
approach have been heartened as the chances for success seemed to grow stronger
over many months. A bill offered by Senators John McCain and Edward Kennedy,
with tougher borders and a path to citizenship for millions, was tweaked in the
Judiciary Committee but emerged largely intact, with bipartisan support. The
bill got a serious reworking when Senators Mel Martinez and Chuck Hagel offered
an alternative that added layers of complication and hurdles to the citizenship
path, the better to appease Republicans.

But while that approach has serious flaws, it does not essentially violate a
bedrock principle of comprehensive reform: a citizenship path for the illegal
immigrants among us. A bill that provides that, unblocks the logjam that has
created an endless waiting line for would-be citizens who do want to follow the
rules and improves border security is not just better than nothing. It is
actually something.

As senators go home to test the political winds, and immigrants and their allies
ready for what are expected to be immense marches around the country tomorrow,
it now falls to Mr. Bush to keep the pressure on. He has so far been the bearer
of well-meaning mush, saying many right things about secure borders and guest
workers and compassion, but with a calculated vagueness that is becoming
maddening. He must insist that lawmakers get behind a comprehensive solution,
and that filibusters and poisonous amendments not be allowed to crush the
possibility of real reform.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 53 words



To the Editor:

Is it possible that the Senate has suddenly realized that those who break the
law shouldn't be rewarded; that those who obey the immigration rules should not
be ignored; and that ''guest worker'' is a euphemism for ''cheap labor''?

No, it must be something else.

David Kopko
Nantucket, Mass., April 8, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Give Me Your Talented '

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words



To the Editor:

In ''How to Lose the Brain Race'' (Op-Ed, April 10), Steven Clemons and Michael
Lind argue that my additions to the immigration reform package ''sent a message
to the rest of the world: send us your brawn, not your brains.''

In truth, I support a balanced policy -- including an agriculture workers
program and increasing numbers of high-tech visas.

The agriculture industry cannot today hire the American workers it needs. That's
why I sponsored a bipartisan amendment providing undocumented agriculture
workers with an opportunity to earn a green card if they continue working in
agriculture. This program would provide them an opportunity to come out of the
shadows.

I also support a program to allow foreign students to work in science,
technology, engineering and math. But I believe we should ensure that American
students get the training they need to compete in these fields.

So I proposed increasing the cost of the visas, with the funds going for
scholarships for American students.

Mr. Clemons and Mr. Lind suggest a choice must be made between agriculture
workers and foreign students. They are wrong. This is not an either-or issue.

Dianne Feinstein
U.S. Senator from California
Washington, April 11, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Boycott for Immigrants' Rights Picks Up Support on Long Island

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., April 24


In this Long Island village, where a third of the population is Hispanic and
downtown sidewalks at lunchtime are fragrant with the smell of grilled fajitas
and fried bananas, a group of business owners vowed yesterday to close their
doors on Monday as part of a nationwide boycott in support of amnesty for the
nation's 11 million illegal immigrants.

One of the businessmen, Ivan Carmona, is an American citizen who said that he
crossed into the United States illegally in 1980 because he could neither find
work in his native Colombia nor obtain a visa to work here legally.

He became a citizen in 1986, after an immigration amnesty.

''I come across the river, and I was looking for the same opportunities the
Italians and Chinese and Irish come here for,'' said Mr. Carmona, who began as a
dishwasher in Manhattan.

He worked as a carpenter, then started a construction business, and now shares
ownership of a restaurant here, Pollos Mario, which he manages six days a week,
opening the doors at 9 a.m. and closing them at midnight -- a 90-hour workweek
that he will interrupt on Monday for the first time in the two-year life of the
restaurant.

''We are not terrorists,'' he said. ''We must show we are here for working.''

About 20 business owners made a call for a one-day boycott on the steps of
Village Hall, standing under the American flag, the flag of Nassau County and
the banner of the Workplace Project, an immigrant-advocate group.

The boycott of commerce, work and school is intended to reflect the impact that
immigrants have on the economy, they said, and to protest many of the harshest
proposals under review in Congress for dealing with illegal immigrants.

Not all immigrant advocates and leaders are supporting the boycott. Cardinal
Roger M. Mahony of Los Angeles, an outspoken advocate of rights for illegal
immigrants, has cautioned against taking part in an action that he suggested
might cause a public-opinion backlash.

But here, and in a cluster of nearby communities that together form one of the
hubs of Long Island's Hispanic population, there is an apparent consensus that
without flexing its economic muscle, the immigrant community will lose the
momentum some feel it has gained during the past weeks of demonstrations across
the country.

''Our intention is to show those who write our laws that we value our workers in
this land, a land made of immigrants,'' said Nelson Hernandez, the owner of a
real estate company, Legacy Homes, who will join his 20 employees in showing
support for a lenient approach to illegal immigrants.

Chris Lopez, the manager of a wholesale grocery supplier, Jimenez Wholesale in
Freeport, that supplies more than 300 small groceries and bodegas on Long
Island, said that immigration reform was a matter of survival for businessmen
like himself and his clients.

''If they pass the worst bills, we could lose all our customers,'' he said.
''It's better to close for one day than to close forever.''

Mr. Lopez came illegally to the United States in 1979 from the Dominican
Republic. He said he earned his citizenship after marrying an American, the
mother of his four children. ''One graduated just now from Stony Brook,'' he
said. ''And the other three are going to go to college, too.''

Under the harshest measures passed by the House of Representatives, but not
included in the major bills before the Senate, it would be a felony to live in
the United States without visa documents, an immigration status that is
currently treated only as a violation of civil law.

A Senate bill favored by immigration advocates, including the business owners
who gathered yesterday, would permit most illegal immigrants to remain in the
country legally, and to earn citizenship over time.

''For me, this is the best country,'' said Mr. Carmona, the co-owner of Pollos
Mario, a two-story place with uniformed servers and $8 entrees that seem too
much to eat in one sitting. ''It gives me a chance to work, and that is all I
wanted.'' He, his wife and a 19-year-old daughter live in a rented house in
Flushing, Queens, and hope to buy a home when they can afford it.

Of his 32 employees, he said, about half are legal and the rest he cannot vouch
for. ''When I need a dishwasher, I hire the guy who comes for the job,'' he
said, leaving unsaid two facts of life in America as he knows them: Illegal
immigrants often take jobs that others will not. And he was once one of them.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ivan Carmona, a co-owner of Pollos Mario in Hempstead, N.Y.,
with a notice that says the restaurant will be closing on Monday. (Photo by Kirk
Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bipartisan Group Thwarts Foes of Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 947 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19


It was a rare sight in the modern, politically polarized Senate: a bipartisan
core of Republicans and Democrats fending off killer amendments from the right
and the left to preserve the central elements of their bill to overhaul
immigration.

''That is what legislating is all about,'' declared Senator Harry Reid of
Nevada, the Democratic leader, after a freewheeling week in a chamber where most
fights these days are carefully scripted brawls between the two parties.

In the days since President Bush endorsed comprehensive changes in immigration
law in a nationally televised speech, Senate backers of that approach have
prevailed on the crucial votes, clearing the way for the likely Senate approval
of major immigration legislation next week.

What happens next is anyone's guess. Many House Republicans are dug in against
the call by a Senate majority and the president for a plan that could ultimately
lead to citizenship for millions who have lived illegally in the United States
for years. House Republicans deride that idea as an affront to the law-abiding
public.

And Republicans fear that even if they reconcile those seemingly irreconcilable
viewpoints in House-Senate talks, Democrats will throw up new obstacles to deny
Mr. Bush a legislative triumph close to crucial mid-term elections. The future
of the legislation is unsettled to say the least.

''It is a jump ball right now,'' said Representative Ray LaHood, Republican of
Illinois.

In the Senate, the emerging legislation was toughened up during the floor fight.
Senators agreed to cap the flow of low-skilled temporary workers at 200,000
annually and disqualified criminals and those who ignored deportation orders
from receiving citizenship. They approved 350 miles of border fencing and 500
miles of vehicle barriers between the United States and Mexico, designated
English as the national language and voted to require those seeking citizenship
to demonstrate some English proficiency.

Conservative critics of the original bill say those additions were significant
improvements and they promised to try to reshape the measure even more in the
days ahead. But they still do not intend to vote for it.

''The Senate should be ashamed of itself,'' Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of
Alabama, said Friday. He called the developing legislation flawed and said it
would put the nation at an economic disadvantage by focusing mainly on
low-skilled workers while other nations concentrate on attracting skilled
newcomers.

''It should never, ever, ever become law,'' said Mr. Sessions, who predicted the
Senate measure would be completely rewritten in negotiations with the House or
the entire effort would collapse.

Both opponents and advocates of the legislation said the outcome would
ultimately be determined by Mr. Bush and how much pressure he was willing to
bring to bear in his weakened political state to force a final agreement.

In interviews Thursday as part of a visit to the border in Yuma, Ariz., Mr. Bush
said he was determined to solve the problem. ''My job is to continue to find
that common-sense way forward and continue to articulate it,'' he said in an
interview broadcast by CBS News.

While the Senate bill underwent some changes, efforts by Mr. Sessions and fellow
conservatives like Senators Jon Kyl of Arizona and John Cornyn of Texas to make
fundamental changes to the legislation were repeatedly defeated. Their foes were
led by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, who took aim at amendments they saw as major threats.

''It strikes a dagger at the heart of what this legislation is about,'' Mr.
Kennedy said Thursday night as he successfully fought a proposal by Mr. Kyl to
prohibit those who enter the country as temporary workers from seeking
citizenship.

The legislation has its Democratic doubters as well. Senator Byron Dorgan of
North Dakota failed in his effort to curb the guest worker program, an
initiative that has drawn the scorn of organized labor. Mr. Dorgan and other
Democrats also joined conservative Republicans in a failed bid to require the
Department of Homeland Security to certify that the border was secured before
any new programs for immigrants could start.

Though the immigration issue was initially thought to favor Democrats since it
could hurt Republican efforts to court Hispanics, some Democrats facing tough
re-election fights in the fall are finding it cuts both ways. Almost as the
votes were being counted on the Senate floor, Democrats like Senators Debbie
Stabenow of Michigan and Robert Menendez of New Jersey were coming under fire.

''Stabenow Supports Social Security Benefits for Illegal Workers,'' said the
headline over a press release issued by a challenger, Michael Bouchard, after
Ms. Stabenow voted against a Republican plan to deny immigrants credit for
payroll taxes paid while working illegally.

Tom Kean, a challenger to Mr. Menendez, issued a statement noting the senator
opposed designating English the national language. ''While I respect the diverse
heritage of our nation, English is the bond that binds us together,'' said Mr.
Kean in a statement.

A spokesman for Mr. Menendez accused the Republican of trying to divert
attention from his own shifting views on immigration. ''We listen more to our
constituents than to Tom Kean Jr.,'' said the spokesman, Matthew Miller.

Though backers of the broad measure are increasingly optimistic that they will
win next week, Mr. Reid, the Democratic leader, warned it was too early ''to
give high-fives'' with difficult votes ahead. ''This coming week we all have to
keep our heads down and push hard,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A truck along the border between the United States and Mexico
passing a boundary marker in Naco, Ariz. (Photo by Hector Mata/Agence
France-Presse -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Many Paths on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 119 words



To the Editor:

Legislating English as the official language is nothing more than
state-sponsored bigotry. It is a slap in the face to each and every
Spanish-speaking legal immigrant and does nothing to address the 11 million
problems we have.

Fear and hatred have been fed in a very effective effort to distract Americans
from the real issues: illegal immigration, the war in Iraq, exploding energy
costs, the federal government's ineffective response to disasters, Social
Security and a total disconnect between Washington and its constituency.

Let's stick to the issues and, as a nation, agree on effective solutions to our
problems instead of the normal hysteria.

Richard Pook
Rockville Centre, N.Y., May 20, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Many Paths on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 144 words



To the Editor:

As an immigration lawyer who speaks four languages and is a former French and
Spanish teacher, I resent the implication that because I support Senator James
Inhofe's amendment declaring English to be the official language of this
country, I am a xenophobe.

Why is it so unreasonable to expect that those who want to belong to the great
club that is America be obligated, as a condition of membership, to learn the
idiom of the majority?

We condemn immigrants to a life of marginalization by relieving them of the duty
to become proficient in English. All this, so that the elites can feel good
about their tolerance for ''diversity.''

My clients, the ones who sweat blood and tears to earn the right to be called
''American,'' don't need that sort of tolerance, nor do they want it for their
own children.

Christine M. Flowers
Philadelphia, May 21, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican President Thanks Bush for Support on Changes in Immigration

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON; Antonio Betancourt contributed reporting from Mexico
City for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 26


On the last day of his four-day visit to the United States, President Vicente
Fox of Mexico spoke with President Bush to thank him for his support for the
sweeping immigration changes that were passed by the Senate this week.

Deputy Foreign Minister Geronimo Gutierrez said Mr. Fox had reached President
Bush Friday morning. Mr. Gutierrez said President Fox ''recognized President
Bush's leadership'' in standing against fierce opposition from within the
Republican Party, promoting increased security along the United States-Mexico
border and expanding guest worker programs.

Mr. Fox also restated Mexico's commitment to working with the United States to
strengthen security along the border and to create more jobs so that its people
do not feel the need to migrate.

Mr. Gutierrez said: ''We know that this visit came at a sensitive time. But all
the comments that have come to us from Washington have told us that President
Fox did a good job, and that his visit was a positive, not a negative.''

A White House spokeswoman, Jeanie Mamo, said, ''The two presidents reaffirmed
their commitment to work together to secure the border and build economic
prosperity in both countries.''

Political analysts here and in Mexico said it might be too early to tell if Mr.
Fox's visit had an impact on Washington, where legislators have yet to resolve
stark differences over immigration. But they said Mr. Fox achieved his goal of
making Mexico's views heard by the conservative forces opposed to them, without
appearing to meddle in American affairs.

That, on its own, the analysts said, seemed a small triumph.

''Mexico has been demonized in the last eight months of the immigration
debate,'' said a close adviser to Mr. Fox's government, who was granted
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about these matters. ''When he
is at a distance, it's easy to put horns on him.

''But when people have the chance to see him,'' the adviser said of Mr. Fox,
''to hear him talk about how Mexico is working to create jobs, and to increase
security on the border, it has an impact.''

Mr. Fox did not deviate much from those messages during his sweep through Utah,
Washington State and California.

Wary that his words could inflame the passions of Republican conservatives, Mr.
Fox canceled a press conference that had been scheduled at the start of his trip
and then refused requests for interviews. Still, during his appearances, he made
some of the strongest statements ever to come from a Mexican head of state about
his country's responsibility for the problem of illegal migration. At the same
time, he urged the United States to do more than build walls.

Time and again during his trip, Mr. Fox said his government was committed to
''continue expanding jobs in Mexico so that migration is no longer a
necessity.''

Andrew Selee, director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson Center,
said he did not believe that those messages had been heard in Congress. But in
the meantime, he said, Mr. Fox had succeeded at beginning to build a political
base for his cause from the bottom up.

''What the Mexican government can do effectively is to build support for its
cause at the state level,'' Mr. Selee said. ''It's a longer-term effort, but if
you want to change votes in Washington, it's important to reach their
constituents. That's where the real debate lies.''

In Mexico, political analysts like Denise Dresser and Rafael Fernandez de Castro
of the Technological Autonomous Institute of Mexico were skeptical about the
chances of immigration reform and said they lamented that President Fox had
failed to sway the debate.

''There are people worried about the Latinization of the United States, because
there has been a browning of the United States,'' Mr. Fernandez said. ''This is
a very serious and very difficult debate. And Mexico, for better or worse, is
not being taken into account, not even when the president is in the United
States.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Victory

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 648 words


Americans should be proud of what the United States Senate did this week. It
passed an ambitious bill that could lead to the most far-reaching overhaul of
immigration laws in the nation's history. It did so after months of thoughtful
debate and through a bipartisan compromise, a creature that many thought had
vanished from Capitol Hill. The bill has many flaws, but its framework is
realistic and humane. At various low points in the debate, this outcome could
scarcely have been imagined, but the near-impossible happened on Thursday, by a
vote of 62 to 36.

The Senate has given the cause of immigration reform a lot of momentum, which it
will need since it is now heading for a brick wall: the House of
Representatives.

The House Judiciary Committee chairman, James Sensenbrenner Jr., in the role of
head brick, called the Senate bill ''a nonstarter'' the morning after it passed.
Discussing the odds of reconciling the House and Senate legislation into one
bill, Mr. Sensenbrenner struck a tone of deathly pessimism. The chambers had
once been miles apart, but now they were ''moons apart or oceans apart,'' he
said, grasping for words to convey the vastness of his gloom, and the ferocity
of his bargaining stance.

But why was he so down?

The House's immigration bill is tough on security. But so is the Senate's. The
House wants 700 miles of new fencing on the Mexican border; the Senate wants
370, with another 500 miles of vehicle barriers. That looks like mere miles
apart to us.

But when you add the real crux of the debate -- the future flow of temporary
workers and a path to citizenship for the nation's shadow population of 11
million to 12 million illegal immigrants -- things do get tricky.

Many polls show that the American public has moved decisively toward favoring a
comprehensive immigration solution: tightening security and giving illegal
immigrants a chance to seek the burdens and benefits of citizenship. But those
in the Sensenbrenner camp are clinging to a fantasy that only a clenched fist
will set the nation's immigrant problems right. They have refused to treat
illegal immigrants as anything but outlaws, and oppose the Senate bill's
citizenship path. They speak with the sullen defeatism of those who have dug
into their positions and can't climb out.

It is hard to understand what -- besides election-year pandering and xenophobic
hostility -- motivates their unwillingness to bend toward the flexible, sensible
policy that immigrants, their families and their advocates, many business
organizations and labor unions, and a majority of the Senate are seeking.

Is it their fear that the United States as we know it is on the brink of
disintegrating under a flood of poor people looking for work? That dread was
expressed this month in a much-buzzed-about report from the Heritage Foundation.
It warned that the Senate bill would increase the United States population by
103 million in 20 years. An uproar followed, and led to an amendment that shrank
the bill's guest-worker quotas. The foundation then revised its estimate down to
66 million.

But that is still a staggeringly ridiculous sum, considering that Mexico's
entire work force is only 43 million. We suppose it is possible that every last
worker south of the border could move here, bringing family members and pets,
but Mexico and Central America would have to be depopulated to make the
conservatives' nightmare come true. To the reality-based community, thankfully,
the Senate bill is not a nightmare.

It is a rough draft of what could end up as a profound achievement. There is a
huge gap between the House and the Senate, but it can be bridged, and President
Bush should bridge it. The coalition that passed the Senate bill has handed Mr.
Bush an opportunity to lead the country to a better place. He should spend every
last shred of his political capital and skill to take it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Chides Party Members On Immigration

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1


Beginning a public relations offensive intended to prod divided Congressional
Republicans into overhauling the nation's immigration laws, President Bush
rebuked conservative opponents of his plan on Thursday and warned that there is
''no excuse'' for delay.

With Congress set to return to Washington on Monday after a one-week recess,
some Republicans have suggested they may fare better at the polls in November if
the House and Senate wait until after Election Day to reconcile their vastly
different immigration bills.

But Mr. Bush made clear in a speech at the United States Chamber of Commerce
that he did not want Congress to wait. Next week, the president will take his
case for what he calls ''comprehensive immigration reform'' on the road, with
appearances in New Mexico and Nebraska.

''The House and Senate bill will require effort and compromise on both sides,''
Mr. Bush told a friendly audience gathered at the chamber's headquarters, across
the street from the White House. ''It's a difficult task. Yet the difficulty of
this task is no excuse for avoiding it.''

Whether Mr. Bush can bring his party's warring factions together remains to be
seen. On one side are conservatives who support the House bill, which declares
illegal immigrants felons and would have them deported. On the other are those,
like the president, who prefer the Senate version, which would open the way for
many of the estimated 11 million people living in the United States illegally to
become citizens.

In his speech, Mr. Bush took aim at House members who brand the Senate bill
amnesty, though he did not mention any by name. ''Some members of Congress argue
that no one who came to this illegally should be allowed to continue living and
working in our country,'' he said. The lawmakers are ''are acting on deeply felt
principles,'' he said, but added, ''I also believe that the approach they
suggest is wrong and unrealistic.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Senator Plans His Own Immigration Hearings

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 113 words


Senator Arlen Specter, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said
he would hold his own summer sessions on immigration policy. His move came after
House Republicans said Tuesday that they would delay negotiations on immigration
legislation pending a new round of hearings. Mr. Specter said his first hearing
on July 5 would be held in Pennsylvania, the state he represents, and would
explore the need for temporary guest workers in agriculture and other
industries. ''I'm doing it to develop a broader, factual, evidentiary record on
the need for the comprehensive bill, which is challenged by quite a number of
House members,'' Mr. Specter said.    CARL HULSE (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republican Immigration Bill Dispute Involves Even Its Name

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 577 words


After more than two weeks of Congressional hearings over immigration reform,
there is no sign of compromise between the House Republican majority and the
Senate on the issue, which has bitterly divided Republicans. The lawmakers are
even arguing over names.

At hearings last week in Washington, House Republicans routinely referred to an
immigration bill the Senate passed in May as the ''Reid-Kennedy bill,''
associating it with two Democrats, Senators Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority
leader, and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the liberal lawmaker who was one
of its authors.

Democrats pointed out that the name omitted at least one prominent Republican,
Senator John McCain of Arizona, who wrote the bill with Mr. Kennedy. In the
Senate, the measure is known as the McCain-Kennedy bill. Another Republican,
President Bush, also supports it.

At a House education committee hearing on Wednesday, Representative Robert E.
Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey, thanked the Republicans ''for declaring
Democratic victory in the effort to take over the Senate'' by recognizing the
roles of Mr. Reid and Mr. Kennedy. But Mr. Andrews said it would be more
accurate to call the measure ''the Bush-McCain-Reid-Kennedy bill.''

''Only 23 Republicans voted for it,'' retorted Representative Howard P. McKeon
of California, the Republican chairman of the committee. The Senate bill passed
with 62 votes after a late compromise forged by yet more Republicans, Senators
Mel Martinez of Florida and Chuck Hagel of Nebraska.

The re-baptism reflects the intensity of the House Republicans' rift with their
Senate colleagues over the bill, which creates a guest worker program and a path
to citizenship for many illegal immigrants. The new name was part of a strategy
that House Republican leaders devised last month when they decided to hold
hearings through the summer to build support for their position, postponing
negotiations with the Senate.

''We thought we ought to explain it for what it is, a bill that relied heavily
on Democrats,'' said Kevin Madden, the spokesman for the House majority leader,
Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio. A bill passed by the House in December
focuses on border security and makes it a crime to be in the United States
illegally.

Asked at a recent news conference how he felt about the bill's name and being
purged from it, Mr. McCain said, ''You can call it a banana if you want to,'' as
long as it eventually becomes law.

In another semantic dispute, arguments raged in the hearings over the word
amnesty, which House Republicans say is what the Senate bill amounts to.

''It meets the minimal, if not the over-the-top, standards'' for amnesty, said
James R. Edwards Jr., an immigration expert at the conservative Hudson
Institute. He said the legalization provisions in the bill would reward
lawbreakers and encourage others to enter the country illegally.

Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee, Democrat of Texas, responded by citing the
American Heritage Dictionary, noting that amnesty is based on the Latin word for
amnesia. ''We have no amnesia in the Senate bill,'' Ms. Jackson-Lee said. The
Senate measure includes tough hurdles that illegal immigrants must clear before
they can become legal, she argued.

The two sides cannot even agree on whom the debate is about. House Republicans
refer to ''illegal aliens,'' while supporters of the Senate bill prefer the more
anodyne but vague ''undocumented immigrants.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Robert E. Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey. (Photo
by Mel Evans/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 28, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

House G.O.P. Planning Recess Hearings

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27


Moving to bolster support for their border security bill, House Republican
leaders said Thursday that they planned to hold 21 immigration hearings during
their August recess before sitting down with the Senate to work on compromise
legislation.

House Republicans said they still hoped to finalize immigration legislation this
year and pointed to a bill introduced this week by two Republican lawmakers as a
possible framework for a compromise. The bill, introduced by Representative Mike
Pence of Indiana and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, would require the
president to certify that the border was secure before allowing a temporary
guest worker plan to be carried out.

''Before we can look at other immigration issues, we must first secure the
borders,'' Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, said at a news
conference. ''I'm not endorsing any one plan, but that does start to look at a
pathway, that type of a solution, possibly to get this job done.''

Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House majority leader, said the
hearings, which will take place in 13 states, would expose what he described as
''troubling provisions'' in the Senate's immigration bill, which would tighten
border security and put most illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship. He
said House Republicans, who passed legislation that focuses solely on border
security, would concentrate on border fencing and involving the local police in
the enforcement of immigration laws.

''I believe that these hearings will help us produce a more responsible solution
that the American people support,'' Mr. Boehner said.

Democrats quickly derided the hearings, describing them as an effort to delay
negotiations with the Senate and to stir the passions of conservative voters
before the Congressional elections in November.

''These are campaign events driven by the right wing of the Republican Party,
not true hearings,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts
and an architect of the Senate immigration bill. ''Immigration is a serious
issue and Americans wish that Republicans would stop playing politics with it
and stop stalling real reform.''

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, the chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, said the House hearings would do little to move the
legislation forward. ''I don't think that the hearings are going to have any
significant impact on any Congressional action,'' said Mr. Specter, a key
proponent of the Senate legislation. ''I think that we all pretty well know what
the bills say.''

Congressional aides said lawmakers in the House and Senate were continuing to
hold private meetings in an effort to reach a consensus. Meanwhile, President
Bush has continued to prod lawmakers to find some common ground.

Mr. Bush emphasized this week that tough border security and a mechanism to
legalize illegal immigrants were both critical components of immigration
legislation. ''All elements of the problem must be addressed together, or none
of them will be solved at all,'' Mr. Bush said Monday.

Mr. Pence, the leader of the conservative caucus in the House, describes his
legislation as ''a rational middle ground.'' The legislation modifies a proposal
he made in May, which would have allowed illegal immigrants to become legal
temporary workers, though they would not have been allowed to become permanent
residents or citizens.

Under the new plan, officials would be required to focus on securing the border
for two years. A temporary worker program would be carried out only after the
president had certified that those efforts had been successful.

The temporary worker program would be limited to immigrants from Mexico, Canada
and countries in Central America that have trade deals with the United States.
Participants would be required to return to their countries and apply for a
two-year visa that could be renewed for up to 12 years. After 12 years,
immigrants would be eligible for permanent residency. After 17 years, they would
be eligible for citizenship.

Matt Lloyd, a spokesman for Mr. Pence, said that Mr. Pence had sent a package
outlining his proposal to House members this week and had discussed the plan
with several lawmakers. Mr. Kennedy, who has met with Mr. Pence in recent weeks,
described the proposal as a positive development.

''While I don't agree with Pence's plan, I do agree with his commitment to
immigration reform and admire his willingness to break with those in his party
who would rather just play politics with immigration,'' Mr. Kennedy said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Sets Aside Work on Immigration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1212 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4


As they prepare for a critical pre-election legislative stretch, Congressional
Republican leaders have all but abandoned a broad overhaul of immigration laws
and instead will concentrate on national security issues they believe play to
their political strength.

With Congress reconvening Tuesday after an August break, Republicans in the
House and Senate say they will focus on Pentagon and domestic security spending
bills, port security legislation and measures that would authorize the
administration's terror surveillance program and create military tribunals to
try terror suspects.

''We Republicans believe that we have no choice in the war against terror and
the only way to do it is to continue to take them head-on whether it is in Iraq
or elsewhere,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the majority
leader.

A final decision on what do about immigration policy awaits a meeting this week
of senior Republicans. But key lawmakers and aides who set the Congressional
agenda say they now believe it would be politically risky to try to advance an
immigration measure that would showcase party divisions and need to be completed
in the 19 days Congress is scheduled to meet before breaking for the election.

President Bush had made comprehensive changes in immigration laws a priority,
even making the issue the subject of a prime-time address, but House Republicans
have been determined not to move ahead with any legislation that could be
construed as amnesty for anyone who entered the country illegally. They held
hearings around the country in recent weeks to contrast their enforcement-only
bill with a Senate measure that could lead to citizenship for some.

''I don't see how you bridge that divide between us and the Senate,'' said
Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York and chairman of the
Homeland Security Committee. ''I don't see it happening. I really don't.''

Democrats say they are not surprised by the immigration impasse and believe some
Republicans would prefer to keep the issue alive to stir conservative voters
rather than reach a legislative solution.

They plan to highlight the collapse of immigration legislation sought by Mr.
Bush and the likelihood that Congress will not meet an Oct. 1 deadline to pass
most required spending bills as evidence that Republicans have lost sight of the
concerns of average Americans. The Democrats are also intensifying calls for the
dismissal of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.

''Every day, people around the country recognize that this is a failed
administration,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader. ''If
Republicans want to spend the whole month on nothing that is relevant to the
American people, we are happy to do that.''

With Democrats poised to pick up seats in the House and Senate and Republicans
determined to hang on to their majorities for the final two years of the Bush
administration, the next few weeks promise to be highly combative, particularly
after the August primaries made it clear that voters are not in a forgiving
mood.

In a draft of a planning memorandum to be circulated to Republican senators,
Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, who is entering his last months as majority
leader, said, ''I expect minority obstructionism to be at an all-time high.''
Republicans are already preparing for a post-election session to begin Nov. 13
and run at least up to Thanksgiving.

Mr. Frist laid out an ambitious agenda, including a vote on John Bolton's
renomination to be ambassador to the United Nations. But his memorandum did not
even mention immigration. In an appearance in Iowa last week, Mr. Frist said
broad legislation addressing what to do about millions of illegal immigrants
already in the United States might have to await the next Congress.

Staff members from the Senate and House Judiciary Committees met last week to
try to find some basis for common ground on the fate of the illegal population,
but one participant said they made no progress.

Representative Mike Pence, the leader of the House conservative caucus and a
proponent of an immigration compromise proposal that has attracted some White
House interest, said he was also doubtful that legislation would reach Mr.
Bush's desk before the elections.

''Anything's possible,'' said Mr. Pence, Republican of Indiana, ''but that's
probably not likely.''

Lawmakers of both parties who helped shape the Senate measure insisted that
consensus was still within reach, even on the more difficult immigration issues,
and immigrant advocacy groups are planning a series of marches this week to prod
lawmakers to take action. Some Republicans warned that their party could suffer
politically if it falls short.

''If there's not legislation with Republicans in charge,'' said Senator Arlen
Specter of Pennsylvania, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, ''there's going to
be blame here, and justifiable blame, if we do not produce a bill.''

Two other senators who played a leading role in writing the Senate bill, John
McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts,
intend to urge Mr. Bush to bring lawmakers to the White House to broker a
resolution.

''We can get the job done, but it's going to require presidential leadership,''
Mr. Kennedy said.

With the immigration measure seemingly stalled, Republicans say they will put
most of their time and energy into security-oriented measures to drive home a
theme that has served them well in the last two elections -- that they are
better equipped to thwart terrorism than are Democrats.

''They'll wave the white flag in the war on terror,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said Sunday of the Democrats on
the CBS News program ''Face the Nation.''

But Democrats believe that voters will not be easily persuaded by the Republican
push on national security and that the public increasingly sees the Iraq war as
an impediment to the war on terror.

In a letter to Mr. Bush on Monday, the Democratic leaders of the House and
Senate urged him to begin pulling American troops out of Iraq this year.

''Mr. President, staying the course in Iraq has not worked and continues to
divert resources and attention from the war on terrorism that should be the
nation's top security priority,'' said the letter signed by Mr. Reid and
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, as well as the
senior Democrats on relevant committees.

The Democrats also urged Mr. Bush to fire Mr. Rumsfeld, and they intend to try
to force no-confidence votes in coming days that could put Republicans on the
spot, given statements by some in the party that Mr. Rumsfeld should resign. But
the leadership remains supportive.

''I doubt there is any other American who could have done a better job over the
last five years,'' Mr. Boehner said of the defense secretary.

Since they will not finish the spending bills on time, Republican leaders will
have to push through a stopgap measure to keep the government running through
the election. But Republicans do hope to advance some nonsecurity measures. The
major legislation on the floor in the House this week is a bill that would ban
trading in horses to be slaughtered for human consumption.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rallies Sound the Drumbeat on Immigration

BYLINE: By SHIA KAPOS and PAUL GIBLIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: BATAVIA, Ill., Sept. 4


Spirited groups of immigrant rights supporters rallied in Illinois and Arizona
on Monday in marches intended to keep the drumbeat going for changes in
immigration law.

In both places, counterdemonstrators heckled from the sidelines and called on
the federal government to enforce its border laws.

Organizers of a rally in Phoenix, outside Arizona's copper-domed Capitol,
estimated their numbers at 4,000, though the police said the event drew about
1,000 people.

In Batavia, a flag-waving crowd, estimated by the police at about 2,500, chanted
''Si, se puede'' -- ''Yes, we can'' -- and converged on the district office of
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. In a counterrally sponsored by the Chicago Minuteman
Project, some 200 men, women and a few children jeered the larger crowd.

Neither Mr. Hastert nor his staff was on hand, and he could not be reached for
comment.

Organizers hoped to pressure Mr. Hastert to push legislation favorable to
immigrants through Congress.

''We're here because we need to keep this issue alive,'' said Jorge Mujica, 50,
a Mexican immigrant who helped organize the rally and who lives in Berwyn, Ill.

''We want to show that we didn't disappear after May 1,'' Mr. Mujica said,
referring to the hundreds of thousands who demonstrated nationwide that day on
the issue. ''We're still marching. We're not going away.''

Alfredo Gutierrez, at the rally in Phoenix, said that he was disappointed it had
not attracted more marchers but that he thought the debate had changed in recent
months. Immigrant rights activists who were initially so optimistic have begun
to lose hope, he said.

''That feeling that something would be accomplished has diminished almost daily
with every report of every negative thing that goes on with Congress,'' Mr.
Gutierrez said.

The Arizona chapter of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now
set up three tents, at which volunteers registered people to vote and
distributed postcards urging members of Arizona's Congressional delegation to
support a path for citizenship for illegal immigrants. Counterprotesters
gathered behind the main stage and shouted at the crowd, but security personnel
and the police generally kept the sides apart.

Fran Garrett, a volunteer with the anti-immigration group United for a Sovereign
America, based in Phoenix, said she was fed up with the authorities who refused
to arrest and deport illegal immigrants.

''They try to get the message out that they're here to do jobs and all that,''
Ms. Garrett said. ''That's not true. They are here to take over eight states of
the United States, and they are going to do it by sheer numbers alone, when they
get enough people where they are the majority in a state.''

In Batavia, 30 Chinese-Americans joined the mostly Latino crowd. One of them,
Man Li Wu, said through an interpreter that she had a daughter in China who had
tried for eight years to enter the United States.

''I'm 70 and I don't know how long I'll be able to wait,'' she said. ''I want to
see my grandchildren.'' Members of the Chicago Minutemen say that living in the
United States is a privilege and should not be an easy process.

''Immigration laws aren't broken,'' said Evert Evertsen, 61, from Harvard, Ill.
''The problem is they're just not being enforced.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants and supporters marched to the office of the House
speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, in Batavia, Ill. (Photo by Kenneth Dickerman for The
New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Movement Struggles to Regain Momentum Built in Spring Marches

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Rachel L. Swarns reported
from Washington, and Randal C. Archibold from Los Angeles. Lakiesha R. Carr
contributed reporting from Washington, and Cindy Chang from Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1322 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10


For a moment, it sounded like one of the spirited crowds from this past spring.
There, at the foot of the Capitol, flag-waving immigrants chanted and cheered
and warned lawmakers in Congress to take notice.

''Legalization now!'' they shouted. ''Who are we? America!''

But this time, only a few thousand people protested, not the hundreds of
thousands that organizers had expected at the rally here on Thursday. And
similar scenes played out across the country last week as immigrant
demonstrations drew much smaller crowds than anticipated in Los Angeles, Phoenix
and Batavia, Ill.

Buoyed by the huge immigrant protests in April and May, some organizers had
predicted that a million people would take to the streets around Labor Day. And
they vowed to produce a million people, through voter registration and
citizenship drives, to press for legislation that would grant legal status to
the nation's illegal immigrants and help shape the outcome of the November
midterm elections.

Some organizers now acknowledge that both goals were overly optimistic. And
political analysts, policy makers and immigrants alike are questioning the
staying power of the fledgling immigrant rights movement. Can the disparate
group of churches, unions and immigrant rights organizations that tapped the
frustration of immigrant communities transform itself into a political force
that can reliably mobilize the masses to march and vote?

The movement, some organizers say, may have blunted some of the harsher
legislation that had been under consideration in Congress. But it faces an
uphill effort, and the shifting political landscape will play a major role in
its long-term vitality.

Armando Navarro, a professor who helped organize the Los Angeles demonstrations
in the spring, said he believed the protest movement had sputtered once it was
clear that the harshest legislation would not pass.

Many immigrant marchers were outraged by House legislation, approved in
December, that would have made it a federal crime to live in the United States
illegally. The provision would have turned millions of illegal immigrants into
felons, ineligible to win any legal status. Living in this country without a
document like a visa or a green card is now a violation of civil immigration
law, not criminal law.

That bill has stalled along with a competing Senate bill, which would have
granted legal status to most of the nation's illegal immigrants. The
Congressional stalemate has left immigrants less motivated to march, Mr. Navarro
said, and less optimistic about the prospects for legislative change while
immigrant leaders try to find a new strategy.

''Division has set in over strategy,'' said Mr. Navarro, who teaches ethnic
studies at the University of California, Riverside. ''There was no consensus on
what we should do next. We lost an opportunity to create a transition to a new
rhythm.''

Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington research group
that tracks political trends, said it remained uncertain whether the groups
could easily regain their momentum.

''There was an effort to resurrect that collective outpouring of the spring, and
it clearly didn't succeed,'' Mr. Suro said of last week's marches. ''The
question is, What do they do next? If it's going to be a movement, it's
definitely struggling, not just for legs, but probably for air right now.''

Organizers counter that their movement is alive and well, but grappling with the
inevitable growing pains that afflict any emerging political organization.

Juan Carlos Ruiz, the general coordinator of the National Capital Immigration
Coalition, which organized last week's rally in Washington, said immigrant
groups were still struggling to raise money, develop strategy and overcome
internal divisions and disappointment among their constituents at the slow pace
of change.

Mr. Ruiz said the campaign to register voters and naturalize immigrants was
initially hobbled by poor financing and the lack of technical expertise to
identify potential voters and new citizens. But he said that his group and
others were steadily building that expertise and hoped to have an impact in
November and beyond, with a particular focus on the presidential election in
2008.

''We had the number of volunteers ready to go, but without financial support,
without the technical support, it is very difficult,'' Mr. Ruiz said.

''But we are building capacity, educating our communities, building
relationships with other groups,'' he said, pointing to emerging alliances with
African-American churches, unions, antiwar groups and others. ''We are growing,
and we are learning. And my sense is that we are cultivating something very
powerful. In the presidential election we will see a big shift.''

Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, an immigrant
advocacy group, said she believed many illegal immigrants were reluctant to
march because increasing numbers of those immigrants had been arrested in recent
months.

This year, the Department of Homeland Security sharply increased the number of
workplace raids, making 245 criminal arrests of employers, up from 25 in 2002.
Some 2,700 immigrant workers were caught up in those operations, and most were
deported, officials said.

Ms. Munoz also said that immigrants who had hoped the spring marches would move
Congress were feeling increasingly disheartened. ''In the spring when people
were marching, there was a real sense that this could be within our grasp,'' she
said, referring to legislation that would legalize illegal immigrants. ''It's
clear to people now that we have a long way to go before this is going to
happen.''

But she, too, emphasized that the immigrant rights movement was shifting into a
more critical phase, beyond marching and rallies.

''We're not picking up on diminished urgency or energy in our communities,'' Ms.
Munoz said. ''But a lot of the energy invested in marches in the spring has been
invested in developing infrastructure for the long term. And we're discovering
it's hard to do that and organize marches.''

A survey conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center found that many Hispanics were
energized by the demonstrations. About 75 percent of the 2,000 Hispanics
randomly surveyed from June 5 to July 3 said they thought the debate would
prompt more Latinos to vote in November, and 63 percent said they thought the
marches signaled the beginning of a new and lasting social movement.

But the political outlook has changed enormously since then. President Bush, who
championed legislation that would put illegal immigrants on a path to
citizenship, has found his stature weakened. And conservatives in Congress, who
once seemed on the defensive, have rallied.

Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who favors legalization of
illegal immigrants, said the protests were ultimately counterproductive because
they galvanized conservatives who criticize legalization as amnesty for
lawbreakers.

''Looking back, the massive protests with immigrants waving Mexican flags was
detrimental to those of us who wanted comprehensive reform,'' Mr. Flake said.
''It just polarized us.''

At the rally here in Washington, some marchers said they were disappointed by
the low turnout. Aurora Flores, a hotel worker from El Salvador, said people
were beginning to doubt that the marches would change anything.

''With the last rally having been so big -- so many people -- and nothing seemed
to happen, a lot of people were discouraged,'' Ms. Flores said.

But Siu Hin Lee, an immigration advocate from Los Angeles who attended the rally
here, said he was hopeful about the power of the movement, even though the
crowds had been smaller than expected.

''It's not one march, one mobilization, and you get change,'' said Mr. Lee,
coordinator of the National Immigration Solidarity Network. ''It's a long-term
struggle. And we're keeping up the momentum.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dondi Manzon, right, carried a Philippine flag at a rally
Saturday in Los Angeles. Turnout at recent events has fallen short of
expectations. (Photo by Ann Johansson/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Immigration Proposals

BYLINE: By RACHEL SWARNS (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 107 words


House Republicans proposed a series of border security and immigration
enforcement strategies, calling for more fencing along the Mexican border, more
Border Patrol agents and counterfeit-proof Social Security cards for citizens
and immigrants searching for work. The proposals are likely to form the basis
for a legislative package House Republicans plan to announce this week. The
initiatives are expected to pass the House this month, either attached to other
legislation or as a stand-alone bill. House Democrats called the Republican
effort political grandstanding in the weeks before the November midterm
elections.   RACHEL SWARNS (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When a Foreigner Turns American

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words


When an immigration judge granted asylum last week to an orphaned Pakistani
youth who grew up in Queens, one argument she considered was that he was so
Americanized, ''he would stick out like a sore thumb'' in his native land.

Can you be too Americanized to be deported?

In the end, the judge used other grounds to halt the deportation of the young
man, Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain, 21, and to recognize him as a refugee from
persecution. But the question is part of a growing debate over how to treat the
Americanized children of foreign parents.

It makes sense that the concept has now turned up in an asylum hearing, said
Stephen Knight, deputy director of the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies at
Hastings College of Law in San Francisco. At a time of simmering conflict
between the United States and Muslims in other countries, Americanized young
people may very well become targets of persecution overseas.

At the same time, he added, no one is suggesting asylum as an answer for more
than a handful. Among Pakistanis of all ages, for example, fewer than 2,000
cases of asylum were granted nationwide in a decade, and in New York, only 77
Pakistanis received asylum in 2004.

''It's a very difficult, strenuous avenue to pursue, to try to gain asylum in
the United States,'' Mr. Knight said. ''Judges are skeptical, the standard of
proof is high, Congress is making it harder to apply and easier to deny.''

A broader answer is a measure known as the Dream Act, included in immigration
bills now stalled in the Senate. It offers a path to citizenship to young people
of good character who have lived in the United States for five years, been
accepted to college, or earned a high school diploma.

Opponents say the measure will encourage illegal immigration and subsidize
immigrants' education at the expense of American children and their taxpaying
parents. Supporters contend it is unfair to punish young people for parental
decisions, and unwise to leave a generation of strivers in a dead end -- let
alone to deport them to lands where anger at America is boiling over.

''Like many first generation immigrants, they're very loyal to the country that
took them in,'' said Cris Toffolo, director of the Justice and Peace Studies
program at St. Thomas University in St. Paul, who testified as an expert in Mr.
Hussain's asylum hearing. ''But then if we deport them or deny them citizenship,
they're like a jilted lover. Why should they be loyal?''   NINA BERNSTEIN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Ponder Conditions For Automatic Deportation

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 956 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3


The intersection of federal criminal law and immigration law is a perilous place
for the millions of legal residents of the United States who are not citizens:
one slip, one criminal conviction, can mean deportation.

The justices of the Supreme Court struggled, during the first argument of their
new term on Tuesday, to understand exactly how the two statutory frameworks
intersect.

The question, posed by two separate cases that were consolidated for a single
argument, was whether immigration officials can treat an immigrant's state-court
conviction for possession of a small quantity of illegal drugs as an
''aggravated felony'' as long as the crime is considered a felony under the
state law, even if federal law treats the same conduct as only a misdemeanor.

Conviction of an ''aggravated felony'' has dire consequences for a noncitizen,
including automatic deportation without the usual rights of appeal and a
permanent bar against returning to the United States.

Congress added the category of aggravated felony to federal immigration law in
1988, and it includes a number of specific offenses. Among them is a ''drug
trafficking crime'' that in turn is defined as ''any felony punishable under the
Controlled Substances Act,'' the basic federal drug law. Does a particular drug
crime that is a felony under the law of a state become a ''felony punishable
under the Controlled Substances Act,'' even if federal law would treat it only
as a misdemeanor?

Although the government's position has shifted over time, its current view is
that the answer is yes. The law of the ''jurisdiction of conviction,'' Deputy
Solicitor General Edwin S. Kneedler told the court, is what determines whether
the crime is an aggravated felony.

Lawyers for two lawful permanent residents caught up in this statutory maze
argued the opposite. ''State felonies are not themselves punishable under the
Controlled Substances Act,'' Robert A. Long Jr., representing Jose Antonio
Lopez, told the court. ''It is not a federal crime to violate state law,'' he
added.

Mr. Lopez, a native of Mexico who became a permanent legal resident in 1990,
pleaded guilty in a South Dakota court in 1997 to ''aiding and abetting
possession of cocaine,'' a felony under South Dakota law for which he served 15
months in prison. Under federal law, a first offense of possessing cocaine is a
misdemeanor.

At the time, the Board of Immigration Appeals took the position that a drug
crime that was not a federal felony could not be considered an ''aggravated
felony.'' While the non-aggravated-drug conviction made Mr. Lopez deportable, it
left officials with the discretion to treat him leniently, including granting
him a ''cancellation of removal.''

But while his case was pending before an immigration judge, the Board of
Immigration Appeals changed its position and ruled that a state-law drug felony
was an aggravated felony. Mr. Lopez lost his final appeal last year before the
United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis. He was
deported to Mexico in January. His Supreme Court appeal is Lopez v. Gonzales,
No. 05-547.

The other case before the court, Toledo-Flores v. United States, No. 05-7664,
was brought by another Mexican, Reymundo Toledo-Flores. He was convicted in
Texas of possession of 0.16 grams of cocaine, less than six one-thousandths of
an ounce, a felony under Texas law. He lost an appeal before the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, and was deported in
April.

As is often the case with questions of statutory interpretation, the argument on
Tuesday was dense, dry and technical. But the human dilemmas created by the
government's current interpretation have drawn considerable attention to the
case.

Dozens of civil rights and criminal defense groups signed briefs on the
immigrants' behalf, as did the American Bar Association and three men who served
as general counsels of the Immigration and Naturalization Service under
Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.

The former officials' brief said that ''because the 'aggravated felony'
categorization has such sweeping consequences and essentially eliminates the
capacity of the immigration enforcement system to differentiate among individual
circumstances,'' it should apply only when Congress has been completely clear.

Several justices found the language less than clear. Referring to the phrase
''any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act,'' Justice Stephen
G. Breyer said to Mr. Kneedler, the government's lawyer, ''I could look at those
words a thousand times and not have a clue'' whether the law covers state
felonies that are only federal misdemeanors.

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg observed that ''it seems to me unseemly'' that
''because of the happenstance of the states in which they were convicted,'' one
immigrant could be ''barred from ever coming back'' while another who committed
the identical offense would not be.

Mr. Long, the lawyer for Mr. Lopez, agreed with the observation. He said the
government's interpretation would permit individual states to ''banish''
immigrants by labeling minor offenses as felonies.

Part of the argument was spent debating whether, for technical reasons, Mr.
Toledo-Flores's appeal was moot, as the government argued. His lawyer, Timothy
Crooks, said the case was not moot because under the conditions of his
''supervised release'' in Mexico, Mr. Toledo-Flores must observe certain rules,
including abstention from alcohol.

Justice Antonin Scalia replied that this was not a burden with sufficient real
consequences to keep the case alive.

''Nobody thinks your client is really, you know, abstaining from tequila down in
Mexico,'' Justice Scalia said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York's Immigration Courts Lurch Under a Growing Burden

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1824 words


Tears streaked Meizi Liu's face in 2003 as she told an immigration judge in New
York of being forcibly sterilized in China. The judge, Jeffrey S. Chase, had won
awards as a human rights advocate before his appointment to the bench in 1995.
But now he had 1,000 pending cases, and he had heard it all before.

He insisted that she was lying, ridiculed her story and, when she would not
recant, denied her petition for asylum.

The tables turned after appeals by Ms. Liu and others reached federal court this
year. In scathing decisions, the court rebuked Judge Chase for ''pervasive bias
and hostility,'' ''combative and insulting language'' and remarks ''implying
that any asylum claim based on China's coercive family planning policies would
be presumed incredible.''

It is always judgment day in the windowless courtrooms where immigrants plead to
stay in the United States. But these days, as never before, the nation's 218
immigration judges are also being judged, even as they struggle to complete
350,000 cases a year amid an immigration debate that promises to send them many
more.

Appeals courts criticize some judges by name, citing abusive behavior and bad
decisions. Studies highlight stark disparities in judgment, like 90 percent of
asylum cases granted by one judge and 9 percent down the hall. Faced with
mounting criticism, Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales vowed to introduce
yearly performance evaluations of the judges, who are Justice Department
employees. The Harvard Law Review urged a campaign to turn the five worst judges
into ''media villains'' to motivate reform.

Yet a more complicated picture emerges in the federal building in Lower
Manhattan. There, Judge Chase, who colleagues say is chastened since being
rebuked, is one of 27 immigration judges searching for ways to handle 20,000
cases a year, driven as much by scarce resources and escalating demands as by
quirks of personality and power.

In asylum cases, the wrong decision can be a death sentence. In others,
banishment hangs in the balance, with the prospect of families split up or swept
into harm's way. But before they can consider the merits of a case, judges must
cope with an intricate web of laws, changing conditions in distant lands, and a
mix of false and truthful testimony in 227 tongues vulnerable to an
interpreter's mistake as small as pronouncing ''rebels'' like ''robbers.''

As the caseload has grown, spurred in part by stepped-up enforcement, so has the
pace demanded by ''case completion goals'' set in Washington.

To stay afloat, New York judges schedule 30 to 70 cases at a time, hold 4
contested hearings a day and decide more than 15 cases a week, all without law
clerks, bailiffs, stenographers or enough competent lawyers.

''The court is a stepchild of the whole immigration system,'' said Sandra
Coleman, who spent years on the immigration bench in Miami. ''They want to make
the judges the villains, and there are judges who are villains, I don't deny
that. But the problem is the system.''

Many federal judges agree. ''I fail to see how immigration judges can be
expected to make thorough and competent findings of fact and conclusions of law
under these circumstances,'' John M. Walker Jr., chief judge of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, told the Senate Judiciary
Committee in April, urging that the number of immigration judges be doubled.

With one of the largest caseloads among the nation's 53 immigration courts, and
with nearly half its cases concerning asylum, New York illustrates the crunch
that judges face in many big cities where complicated matters crowd the docket.

Caseloads exploded in the 1990's. In 2000, an unpublished report by a Justice
Department evaluation team warned that New York judges were ''reaching the point
of exhaustion and burnout.''

The report urged a slower pace and an increase in the staff-judge ratio to three
to one from two to one. Instead, an evaluation last year found that the ratio
had slipped even lower.

Justice Department rules do not allow immigration judges to speak to reporters.
But weeks of observation, court records and interviews with lawyers, clerks,
interpreters and immigrants show that the judges are coping in very different
ways, with far-reaching consequences.

Patricia Rohan, who keeps a twinkling Statue of Liberty lamp in her chambers, is
recognized after 24 years on the bench as a model of soft-spoken fairness and
efficiency.

On a recent weekday, with 575 cases pending, she patiently took notes as a man
who shells fish explained why deportation to Gambia would put his Bronx-born
daughters at risk of genital mutilation. She gently questioned an Ecuadorean
cleaning woman of 55 who avowed that love, not a green card, had prompted her
marriage to an American 15 years after she immigrated illegally. Teasing out
supporting evidence in both cases, Judge Rohan dictated favorable decisions into
an aging tape recorder.

Other judges have a different approach. Sandy K. Hom, appointed in 1993, is also
invariably polite, but so quick and predictable in his denials of asylum -- 91
percent in recent years, compared with Judge Rohan's 25 percent -- that lawyers
regularly advise people assigned to him to move to another state.

Given his speed, he has the fewest pending cases, about 345. But many of his
decisions have been rejected on appeal, including one in which he denied asylum
to a widowed Armenian Christian and her children and ordered them deported to
Iraq, arguing that since Saddam Hussein's ouster, they had no reason to fear
religious persecution.

In another case, records show, he mixed up the medical documents presented by
Janeta Kutina, a 69-year-old Latvian woman of Jewish heritage, confusing the
deaths of her father and her husband, both victims of anti-Semitic violence.
Then, the appeals court found, he cited his own mistake as evidence that her
account was inconsistent.

Down the hall and at the other end of the spectrum, Margaret McManus grants
asylum at the highest rate in the country -- 90 percent -- but at the price of
what Kevin Kerr, president of the clerks' and interpreters' union local,
complains is a chaotic calendar with 931 pending cases. She typically
reschedules cases until petitioners can secure supporting documents, pursue
other avenues or find lawyers.

A judge's fact-finding is much harder without a lawyer to speak for those facing
deportation, who are not entitled to court-appointed counsel. Many get what the
2000 Justice Department report called ''the high-volume, low-margin, piecework
approach'' practiced by ''an unsavory subculture'' of ''travel agency'' lawyers.
Nor do government lawyers know each case.

Judge Chase's trajectory illustrates why those judges unable to come to terms
with the system's deficiencies may risk losing their judicial bearings.

As a young immigration lawyer, he joined rallies on behalf of Chinese
asylum-seekers and gave other lawyers videotaped lessons on asylum.

''Some of the judges will have their minds made up before they enter the
courtroom, depending on the country an immigrant is from,'' Mr. Chase, whose
wife immigrated from Iran, told a Newsday reporter in 1995. ''A judge needs to
start each case with a clean slate and listen to the lawyer and the applicant.
Rather than have that look on his face of 'Why are you wasting my time?' ''

But before long, incredulous tirades became his trademark in many Chinese asylum
cases, according to court records and interviews with a dozen lawyers. Openly
frustrated with a pattern of boilerplate claims that he suspected had been
concocted by smugglers, he applied his own tests of honesty.

In September 1999, at the first court appearance of Guo-Le Huang, who said his
wife had been forced to have an abortion in her last month of pregnancy, Judge
Chase rejected the man's assertion that he was not working because he lacked
papers.

''That is the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard,'' Judge Chase said,
setting the tone he would take with Mr. Huang over two years. ''I'm not going to
waste my court time on this case.'' He questioned why Mr. Huang lived in a
Hispanic neighborhood, interrupted an account of persecution with sarcasm and
berated him for giving up his firstborn for adoption because she was a girl,
calling the act ''sexist'' and ''inhumane.''

In the harried world of immigration court, many lawyers seemed to accept his
tactics as an idiosyncratic tool, not unlike the long wooden claw that another
judge, lacking a clerk, uses to hand down documents. And, statistics show, Judge
Chase granted 42 percent of the 2,729 asylum requests he heard through 2004,
including 250 of 943 from China.

''He's trying very hard to get to the truth,'' said one lawyer, Robert Murtha.
''A lot of these people, if you look behind the foolish lies they're telling,
they really do have a case. But the lawyer that they go to adapts their story to
conform with the pattern, and it does drive him crazy.''

Another lawyer, Peter Lobel, described Judge Chase as a ''deeply caring man,''
whose approach was '' 'I don't care what your claim is, just be honest with me.'
'' But he added, ''He got so it was like an interrogation.''

Several lawyers credited Judge Chase with unusual generosity to petitioners who
admitted to falsehoods -- no help to those who maintained they were telling the
truth. Ms. Liu, now 39, the asylum-seeker who told of being forcibly sterilized,
testified that family-planning cadres in China subjected her to painful uterine
surgery when her second child was a baby. She fled in 2000, leaving her children
in hopes of reunion in America.

''The judge said, 'You have been lying all day, but if you admit to lying, I
will grant your case,' '' Ms. Liu recalled through an interpreter. ''I was very
angry, because everything I said was true.''

In 2003, she appealed his denial to the Board of Immigration Appeals, the
internal review body. But a year earlier, its reviews had been sharply curtailed
when John Ashcroft, then attorney general, cut board membership to 11 from 23
and set tight deadlines to reduce a large backlog. Single board members issued
50 decisions a day, typically one-sentence rulings affirming denials.

Like Ms. Liu, many of those who received such decisions turned to federal court.
Second Circuit filings jumped 53 percent; it is finding merit in 20 percent of
the immigration appeals, returning them for revision.

Ms. Liu's case was remanded in February, and lawyers say Judge Chase tried to
change. But in July, the 2001 Huang case caught up with him, in a blistering
Second Circuit decision prominently published in The New York Law Journal.

Mr. Lobel described the judge as devastated and braced for more: ''He said, 'I
learned my lesson, but some of these cases are still in the pipeline.' ''

Ms. Liu is still waiting, too, and worrying about which judge will decide her
family's fate.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A judge accused Meizi Liu of lying and denied her asylum, but
she appealed, and her case is being revisited. (Photo by Chip Litherland for The
New York Times)
A corridor at 26 Federal Plaza in Lower Manhattan, above left. The 27
immigration judges in the building handle 20,000 cases a year. Above right,
Janeta Kutina, a Latvian whose father and husband died after being victims of
anti-Semitic violence, and David Rossman, her translator. (Photo by Marilynn K.
Yee/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 39)Chart: ''A Growing
Burden''U.S. immigration judges are struggling to keep up with cases.IMMIGRATION
COURT CASES (Fiscal year)'01RECEIVED: 282,396COMPLETED: 259,475'02RECEIVED:
290,389COMPLETED: 273,784'03RECEIVED: 299,167COMPLETED: 296,113'04RECEIVED:
299,474COMPLETED: 302,030'05RECEIVED: 368,848COMPLETED: 352,287(Source by U.S.
Department of Justice)(pg. 39)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Marshal Immigrant Forces, Start at Ethnic Radio Stations

BYLINE: By LIA MILLER

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 471 words


After an enormous turnout in Los Angeles at a rally against immigration
legislation two weeks ago, organizers pointed to the concerted efforts of Latino
radio there as a major force in mobilizing people.

Those efforts have spread across the country and across ethnic lines.

Chung-Wha Hong, the executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition,
the group coordinating a rally at City Hall in New York at 3 p.m. today -- one
of scores of rallies scheduled across the country in support of immigrant rights
-- said the ethnic media was an ''incredible intermediary'' that can make a huge
impact in turning a cause into a much bigger movement.

''Our strategy is saturation and marshaling all of their communications
infrastructure with information about this rally,'' she said. ''When our
colleagues in Chicago and L.A. were telling us what some of the strategies were,
it became very clear the ethnic media plays such a leadership role.''

Misun Chang, the program director and host of the morning program ''Women
Salon'' at WWRU-AM, a Korean-language station in Manhattan, said the station
produced one-minute promotional spots that ran 10 times a day informing people
of the rally, which will end three separate marches to City Hall. A month ago,
the station started call-in shows in the morning and evening in which immigrants
talked about some of the problems they faced. Ms. Chang said some of the
discussions on the shows became extremely emotional.

Frank Flores, general manager of the two of the most popular Latino music
stations in New York, WSKQ-FM and WPAT-FM, which are owned by the Spanish
Broadcasting System, said immigration legislation was a major issue for many of
the station's listeners. ''So many of our listeners could be affected by what's
going on in Washington,'' he said.

The two stations have been promoting the rally frequently and urging listeners
to attend. He said that both stations would attend and cover the rally.

Nomar Vizcarrondo, the news director for WADO-AM, a Spanish-language news, talk
and sports station owned by Univision, said that while there had not been any
special promotions on his station for today's marches and rally, immigration
legislation had been the station's top news story for weeks.

''It is important as a news event and we want to make sure they get all the
information possible about it,'' said Mr. Vizcarrondo.

While many of the ethnic radio stations in New York are involved in promoting
the rally, they have not joined forces the way those in Los Angeles did. Other
than the annual Puerto Rican Day parade in Manhattan, Mr. Flores said it was
unusual for his station and Univision stations to be involved in the same event.

''This goes beyond the competitive nature of our business,'' he said. ''This is
something that's on a much higher ground.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 24, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senators to Reignite Debate on Immigration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23


Prodded by large demonstrations and the prospect of another on the horizon,
Senate leaders will try to revive stalled immigration legislation this week,
with some urging President Bush to mediate personally the sharp differences
among Republicans on the volatile issue.

Two weeks after the Senate walked away from its immigration debate, leaders of
both parties are expressing a new sense of urgency to act before the November
midterm elections. Mr. Bush, who has made an immigration bill a centerpiece of
his legislative agenda and who could use a victory on Capitol Hill to revive his
flagging second term, is expected to address the issue again on Monday in an
appearance in Irvine, Calif.

''This is a top priority, and the president wants to see the Congress press
ahead and get something done, in a comprehensive way,'' the White House press
secretary, Scott McClellan, told reporters on Sunday.

After an Easter recess punctuated by large immigrant rights protests, both
Democrats and Republicans say their colleagues recognize that if they do not
press ahead it could stir a reaction from those who want stricter border
enforcement, business operators who rely on foreign workers and advocates of
immigrant rights.

''We're not going to be stampeded, but at the same time we understand that there
is a giant problem out there,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of
Pennsylvania and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, who set a hearing
for Tuesday on the economic impact.

Mr. Specter said he intended to use a White House meeting the same day to
encourage Mr. Bush to ''get into the fray now'' by getting House and Senate
Republicans to reconcile differences before the Senate passes a bill. ''The time
has come for specifics,'' Mr. Specter said.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader blamed by Republicans for
tying up the legislation, and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, a chief architect of the Senate measure that fell apart two weeks
ago, also called on Mr. Bush to get involved. In interviews, each said the
president must push back against conservatives who want to limit the legislation
to stronger border enforcement.

''The president is going to have to weigh in on this,'' Mr. Reid said.
''Somebody has to stand up to the right wing that is not allowing us to go
forward.''

Mr. Bush has said he favors legislation that includes a guest worker program for
illegal immigrants, and he used his radio address on Saturday to reiterate that
goal.

A spokesman said the president was eager to work with Congressional leaders to
advance a bill. ''The president's position is that it is important to keep that
legislation moving,'' said Ken Lisaius, deputy White House press secretary.

Mr. Bush has shown little appetite for the give and take of negotiations,
preferring to outline his goals and leave details to his Congressional allies.
But those allies are now feuding bitterly among themselves.

Some Senate Republicans, led by John McCain of Arizona, champion an approach
mixing stiffer border controls with potential citizenship for some illegal
immigrants. But conservatives in the House and the Senate balk at talk of legal
residency for those in the country illegally.

''The differences between the two approaches are so great, I do not know how you
connect those dots,'' said Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado,
who favors more border enforcement. ''The idea of providing amnesty, which is
inherent in every one of the Senate plans, is abhorrent to most members of the
House Republican Conference.''

Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, said Saturday in an
article for National Review Online that he wanted to finish immigration
legislation by the end of May. But he will face resistance from some in his own
party.

Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said he was leery. ''We need to
think very seriously about how we want immigration to be conducted in the
future,'' Mr. Sessions said, citing estimates of 30 million new arrivals in the
next decade. ''Just passing 'something' is not respectful of the American
people.''

Immigration will not be the first order of business for the Senate. Lawmakers
will consider a $106.5 billion emergency spending measure for the war in Iraq
and hurricane recovery, which will expose another Republican split over
spending.

That fight will push any immigration bill into the first week of May at the
earliest. But trying to assuage conservatives and ease the way for a broader
bill, Republicans want to add $2 billion to the emergency spending bill for
additional border agents and enforcement tools like fences for high-traffic
areas and new surveillance aircraft.

''Under any circumstances, security has to come first,'' Mr. Frist wrote in his
article.

Mr. Reid, who two weeks ago resisted a Republican push for a series of
conservative amendments to a bipartisan compromise on immigration, said in an
interview that he was willing to agree to what he described as a reasonable
number of them. But he said Mr. Frist, Mr. McCain and other Republican backers
of a broad measure would eventually have to join Democrats in forcing a final
vote if they wanted to produce a bill.

Mr. Reid and Mr. Specter called for guarantees on how the Senate would conduct
immigration talks with the House, including a commitment that senators would not
give in to House conservatives.

The Senate returns to its debate on the issue as immigrant advocacy groups plan
an economic boycott on May 1, the latest in a series of large-scale
demonstrations that have sharpened Congressional focus on the issue. Some
lawmakers and members of the public have been upset at foreign flags at the
rallies. Some predict that the proposed national school and job walkout could
stir a stronger negative reaction.

''There is some real concern about the marches,'' said Representative Steve
Chabot, an Ohio Republican who played host to Mr. McCain for a campaign event
during the recess but does not share his position on immigration. ''For the most
part, people think we ought to control our borders.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Speaker's Decree vs. Democracy

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 332 words


After all the legislative hash that the Republican Congress has made of
immigration policy, the worst is yet to come. Any workable compromise that a
bipartisan mix of senators may manage this week must, perforce, run into
negotiations with House obstructionists. And none are more hard-core than
Speaker Dennis Hastert. He stands waiting with his triumphalist decree that no
bill, even one fairly balancing border protection and enlightened naturalization
law, can be put to a vote unless a majority of his Republican caucus -- not some
larger majority of, yes, the people's House -- agree to it.

''The job of speaker is not to expedite legislation that runs counter to the
wishes of the majority of his majority.'' Thus spoke Speaker Hastert in a little
noticed moment of czarist excess three years ago that his office is now
stressing as the immigration issue churns toward a two-house negotiation.

This odious doctrine would be a major hurdle to any immigration bill, but
especially to one that actually threatens to attract a bipartisan majority.

Thus is Mr. Hastert giving 116 Republican lawmakers out of his total caucus of
231 members the power to bottle up a bill, even if most of the House's 435
members eventually support something like the Senate compromise. And this is not
just talk. Mr. Hastert, whose minions easily hamstring the rules of open debate,
has repeatedly used his ukase to snuff out bipartisanship, even on such crucial
affairs of state as the Medicare drug program.

In the past, leaders of Democratic majorities did not hesitate to elbow
Republicans out of play on issues and keep them on a leash. But bipartisanship
always had a chance to prevail, while the Hastert doctrine makes partisanship a
sweeping dogma. The speaker should beware: increasingly, voters are watching the
feckless, partisan Congress with disapproval, according to opinion polls, and
House zealots intent on turning the immigration bill into a xenophobe's
manifesto will have to confront them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 63 words


An article on Saturday about the opposition of Representative F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr., the leading House negotiator on immigration legislation, to
the measure passed last week by the Senate misstated the name of the program
director for the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, who was
critical of some provisions of the Senate bill. He is Stanley Mark, not Mark
Stan.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

First Prize: A Chance to Stay

BYLINE: By GERGANA KOLEVA

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; DIRECTIONS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 470 words


Partisans in the roiling national debate over immigrant rights have waged their
fight in Congress and on the streets of American cities. A more out-of-the-way
front will open this week when an art collective takes over a Chelsea gallery
for a week with a guest-worker program of its own: a show that doubles as a
contest pitting foreign-born artists against one another in their quest for
permanent residency here.

More than 200 artists from 43 countries applied to take part in the experiment,
''AsylumNYC'' at the White Box Gallery, and the collective, Wooloo Productions,
narrowed the field to 10. Upon arriving at the gallery on Monday, the
''contestants'' will have to give up all of their own materials. In exchange,
each will be issued pen, paper, a mattress and space on the floor. For the rest
of the week, that's where they'll live, getting three meals a day and creating
artwork to be judged by two Wooloo members on Saturday. Where they get other
materials from is their problem, but they can't leave.

The prize is the services of Daniel Aharoni, an immigration lawyer who has
promised to help the winner secure an O-1 artist visa good for three years. (His
fees will be covered by Franklin Furnace, an avant-garde group in Downtown
Brooklyn and a sponsor of the show.) Wooloo will also organize a New York solo
show for the winner.

That much is clear. What the contestants are being asked to create is hazier.
Indeed, Wooloo's aim all along has been to mimic the uncertainty of the
immigrant experience. According to Martin Rosengaard, director of the
collective, that means applicants who persistently ask the right questions --
pressing the show's organizers for details about the contest or hitting up
gallery visitors for extra supplies -- have an advantage.

''Yikes! What am I gonna do, just sit there?'' Naohisa Matsumoto, 33, said when
a reporter told him of the rules. Mr. Matsumoto, a Japanese furniture designer
who lives in Brooklyn, applied to ''AsylumNYC'' because his work visa expires
next year. But the contest's limits present a problem: ''I'm an object-maker and
I need specific materials, specific tools.''

Dusanka Komnenic, 29, a painter from Serbia and Montenegro, was surprised but
unfazed: ''It will be interesting to see what interaction is created between us
in the box and 'them' in the outside world,'' said Ms. Komnenic, who teaches at
the Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design under the provisions of a student visa
that will expire in July. ''It's sort of a gladiators' arena in a sophisticated
setting.''

To Lanfranco Aceti, a mixed-media artist from Cassino, Italy, that sounded too
much like exploitation, an aspect of the immigrant experience he could do
without: two days after learning Wooloo had accepted his application, he decided
not to take part.    GERGANA KOLEVA


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Page 4 of Arts & Leisure today about a gallery show
that is also a contest for foreign-born artists seeking a visa to live in the
United States refers incorrectly to the involvement of an immigration lawyer,
Daniel Aharoni, and of the avant-garde group Franklin Furnace. Mr. Aharoni will
work without charge for the show's winner; the group will not be paying his
fees. Its contribution will instead be used to cover visa processing.

  After the section had gone to press, terms of the contest changed. The judging
is to take place this Friday, not Saturday, and the winner will receive a solo
show on Saturday, not sometime later.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DUSANKA KOMNENIC
LANFRANCO ACETI
 NAOHISA MATSUMOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drawing Workers, and Some Critics

BYLINE: By ALLAN RICHTER

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words


AS federal legislators debate a national immigration policy, Long Island
officials are wrestling with the most visible aspect of the immigration issue in
the suburbs: the laborers who gather in busy locations in many Long Island
communities every morning, hoping a contractor will pick them up for a day's
work.

Where these day laborers gather spontaneously, a host of problems seem to
follow. Business owners and area residents complain about traffic congestion,
petty crime, litter and other nuisances, while advocates for the laborers say
they often suffer abuse from passers-by and from the people who hire them.

To cope with these problems, a growing number of communities are looking into
establishing official hiring sites for day laborers. Three sites are already
operating, in Freeport, Huntington Station and Glen Cove, and officials in North
Hempstead and Southampton are weighing plans for more.

But the hiring sites generate disputes of their own, and the Island is a long
way from a consensus about whether they function as intended.

The question of how and where the 100,000 illegal immigrants estimated to be in
Nassau and Suffolk get work is taking center stage in the Islandwide debate, to
some extent eclipsing fights over where and how they live, which flared last
year in communities like Farmingville that have seen an influx of immigrants.

Now, advocates for day laborers are redirecting their efforts to places like
Roslyn Heights, the latest community facing criticism for the way day laborers
who gravitate there for work are treated. A recent Hofstra University study of
eight communities on the Island singled out Roslyn Heights as the place where
immigrant laborers faced the most harassment and abuse.

The biggest problem faced by workers there, the Hofstra researchers said, is
mistreatment by contractors, who were more likely to put them to work in unsafe
conditions, short their pay or renege on paying them altogether.

''They bring you to the house and want you to paint a room for $40 or $50,''
said Israel Romero, 47, one of a group of laborers gathered outside the Willis
Paint and Design store in Roslyn Heights on a recent morning.

Mr. Romero, a Salvadoran who has been in the United States for a decade, said
that a fair rate for such work would be $125 to $150 a day, but that contractors
commonly pay substandard wages.

Hofstra researchers said that complaints about abuses by contractors were
probably high in Roslyn Heights because most of the work there consists of small
jobs on single-family homes, rather than large jobs at apartment complexes or
commercial buildings that better-established contractors would bid on.

Willie Chicas, a 31-year-old Salvadoran, said he painted a home in Roslyn
Heights last month, a week's work, and was promised $900. He was given a check
when the job was finished, he said, but before he had a chance to cash it, the
contractor had stopped payment.

Mr. Chicas said he used to seek work at the Home Depot store near his home in
Hempstead, but recently switched to the area near Willis Paint on Mineola Avenue
to get away from unrelenting police scrutiny, a source of trouble for workers
that was also cited in the Hofstra study.

Jon Kaiman, the North Hempstead supervisor, said he took issue with the Hofstra
researchers' findings about Roslyn Heights.

''I don't doubt that some of it takes place,'' Mr. Kaiman said of the claimed
mistreatment of workers. ''By the nature of the relationship between day
laborers and contractors, abuses, I'm sure, occur and probably frequently.'' But
he said his office had received no complaints about abuses in Roslyn Heights.

Nadia Morin Molina, executive director of Workplace Project, a Hempstead
advocacy group and sponsor of the Hofstra study, said it was not surprising that
day laborers had not complained to the town. Most, she said, want to avoid
attracting official attention because of their immigration status, and see
little they can achieve by complaining.

''It's so far underground right now,'' Ms. Molina said. ''There's a lot of
information you need to find the contractor and enforce the law, but you can't.
There are no pay stubs.''

When all a day worker may know about the contractor who hired him is a first
name and the color of his truck, it's really hard to follow up, she said.

One of the goals of official hiring sites is to protect workers from these kinds
of problems. Contractors and workers are typically asked to register, and the
hiring process is monitored. But advocates acknowledge that having an official
hiring site does not stop fly-by-night contractors from continuing to seek
laborers at unauthorized locations.

''It's a difficult situation because the workers are just looking for work and
are willing to take it at almost any cost,'' Ms. Molina said. ''The contractors
know that, so they're always looking to undercut the official hiring sites.''

Public officials who oppose the hiring sites voice bigger objections than that,
though. Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, said the sites put legitimate
businesses at a disadvantage by helping provide cheap labor to contractors who
are willing to break the law.

Mr. Levy said a better solution is to enforce the federal Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986, which makes it illegal to knowingly employ illegal
immigrants.

''If that were properly enforced, those who are here now illegally or come here
illegally in the future won't find work and will go back home,'' he said. ''Work
will be found by those immigrants who go through the proper channels.''

Gregory M. Maney, an assistant sociology professor at Hofstra who conducted the
research study, said that one commonly voiced motive for creating the sites --
shifting the day laborers out of the public eye -- may plant the seeds for the
sites to fail.

''Residents say they want them out of sight, out of mind, and then they put them
in commercial districts where they're tough to find for contractors,'' Dr. Maney
said, citing as an example the City of Glen Cove's shape-up site in an
out-of-the-way industrial area on Sea Cliff Avenue.

Ralph V. Suozzi, the mayor of Glen Cove, said that setting up the site has
helped ease traffic congestion in areas formerly frequented by day laborers, and
that he thought crime had abated there as well, though he had no statistics.
Still, he acknowledged that the new site now has traffic problems of its own,
and not all of the city's day laborers use it.

''It's a partial solution,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''There are still issues, but it's
going in the right direction.''

Less than a mile from the Glen Cove site on a recent late morning, six workers
waited outside Carmen's Deli hoping for work. Before the official site opened,
there would have been three times as many, a deli worker said.

Manuel Diaz, 36, a Salvadoran wearing an American-flag baseball cap, said he and
other day laborers knew that some contractors still went to the deli looking for
workers, probably to sidestep the monitoring at the official site.

David Mejias, a Nassau County legislator from North Massapequa who favors
creating more official hiring sites, said that once they are open, the county
must crack down on contractors who continue to recruit day laborers from
unauthorized sites, especially in residential areas.

Day laborers who stay away from the official sites say the lottery system used
at some sites to match workers and employers takes no account of their skills
and experience.

Rony Arriaza, 40, a Guatemalan who lives in Hempstead but seeks work at Willis
Paint, said that although he is a skilled drywall worker and painter, under a
lottery system, ''somebody doesn't know that work, and they go first.''

At the Glen Cove site, for example, workers are supposed to be hired in the
order their names are pulled from a brown paper bag and then written on a
blackboard.

But some contractors ignore the blackboard. Just after 9 on a recent morning,
one contractor sought a particular worker he had hired before, and left
empty-handed when he learned he was not there.

A few minutes later, Robert Czernicki, an owner of apartment buildings in New
York City, came by looking for a cleanup man for a building in Kew Gardens. He,
too, skipped the posted list, and also passed over a man he had hired before who
he knew could speak little English.

Still, Johnny Rivera, 34, a Salvadoran who lives in Glen Cove, said he recently
started seeking work at the official site because it was safer and more orderly
than the relative chaos of the streets, and workers there were more likely to
earn what many of them regard as the minimum fair pay for a day's work, $100.

''It's much better for us, because we don't have any problems with the people
outside,'' Mr. Rivera said.

Workers at the Roslyn Heights site said they were not waiting for the government
to step in to get organized. Many have agreed among themselves not to accept
less than $100 a day, and several said they were trying to learn English because
they thought contractors were less likely to take advantage of bilingual
workers.

Mr. Chicas, the victim of the $900 bounced check, said he was able to recoup the
wages by enlisting help from the Workplace Project advocacy group.

''They think we're scared, but contractors have to know that we have
organizations working for the people, for the immigrants,'' Mr. Chicas said.
''We are here, and we are not going back. This country has the money. This is
the American dream. This is the place to find some jobs.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Day laborers at an official hiring site set up for them in an
industrial area in Glen Cove. La Fuerza Unida de Glen Cove, a Hispanic advocacy
group, runs the site. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Edisom Mantilla, right, job coordinator for La Fuerza Unida de Glen Cove, with
day laborers. La Fuerza Unida means ''the united force.'' (Photo by Vic DeLucia
for The New York Times)(pg. 5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dozens Charged in Green Card Fraud in Queens

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 470 words


A former federal immigration officer and more than two dozen other people were
arraigned yesterday on charges of conspiracy, fraud and money laundering,
accused of arranging marriages for green cards.

According to a 13-count indictment unsealed in Federal District Court in
Manhattan, the illegal activity centered on a business called Help Preparers
Professional Services of Queens.

Prosecutors said the company provided hundreds of permanent-residence documents,
commonly known as green cards, from April 2001 through November 2005. Charging
between $8,000 and $16,000 a person, the business generated more than $1 million
in revenues, prosecutors said.

The charges were unsealed two months after the beginning of a federal crackdown,
including raids on businesses and task forces on document fraud, undertaken as
immigration has moved to the fore of national political debate. Rival factions
in Congress are debating guest worker programs and promises of citizenship, and
President Bush is seeking to appear tough on security while promoting a
compromise plan.

In a 2002 report, the General Accounting Office said that federal immigration
agencies lacked the ability to track and manage immigration benefits fraud
cases. To promote the new crackdown, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials emphasize the role of document fraud in terrorist plots, noting that
seven of the Sept. 11 hijackers used fraudulent residency certificates to obtain
genuine Virginia identity documents and board airplanes.

In the New York case, the defendants are accused of using fraudulent marriage
documents to obtain green cards. Help Preparers arranged for some clients to
marry American citizens under false pretenses and produced documentation of
nonexistent marriages for others, according to the indictment.

The business was owned by Beverly Mozer-Browne, 49, of Brooklyn. Her brother,
Phillip A. Browne, 40, worked until December as a district adjudication officer
for the federal Citizenship and Immigration Services in Manhattan. The Brownes
and other defendants in the case who were arraigned yesterday pleaded not
guilty.

According to the indictment, Help Preparers used the false marriage documents,
along with fraudulent financial documents like fictitious letters from
employers, to apply for green cards for its clients. The applications were
mailed to Citizenship and Immigration Services, also a part of the Department of
Homeland Security, where Mr. Browne approved them without interviewing the
applicants, the indictment says.

The indictment charged 28 other people, including 13 employees of Help
Preparers, two people who scouted citizens willing to marry clients, two
citizens who were paid to enter sham marriages and 11 clients.

Twenty-seven of those charged were arrested yesterday, as of late afternoon.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beverly Mozer-Browne, accused of arranging fraudulent marriages
to obtain green cards for clients, being taken from court in Manhattan. (Photo
by Angel Franco/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dollars and Dreams: Immigrants as Prey

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3450 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


IT was when his immigration attorney asked him for $3,000 several years ago that
Celso Lima Mejia started to wonder whether his lawyer was taking him for a very
costly ride. Mr. Mejia, a Guatemalan immigrant who was residing illegally in the
United States, said he had already paid Miguel Gadda $3,600 to help him apply
for asylum. Mr. Mejia recalled in a recent interview that Mr. Gadda promised him
that the legal fees -- a large chunk of his annual pay of about $20,000 as a
handyman -- would land him a coveted prize: a green card allowing him to come
out from the shadows and live in the United States as a permanent resident.

But immigration authorities rejected the application, and Mr. Mejia said Mr.
Gadda pressed him for the extra $3,000 to appeal the decision. Until that point,
Mr. Mejia said, Mr. Gadda had done virtually no work on the case -- ''He hadn't
even done any prep work with me before my hearing'' -- but his asylum
application had revealed him to immigration authorities. Mr. Mejia, who is now
29, felt that he had to keep fighting, so he scrounged up the money. And that
was the last time he saw Mr. Gadda.

When Mr. Mejia found a deportation order in his mail in 2001, he rushed in panic
to his lawyer's office. ''But the office wasn't there anymore, and there was
nowhere to find him,'' said Mr. Mejia, who gained permanent resident status --
his green card -- after turning to a second lawyer he described as ''my angel.''

Mr. Mejia wasn't Mr. Gadda's only victim. When the State Bar of California
disbarred Mr. Gadda in 2002, it cited him for professional misconduct and legal
incompetence involving eight illegal immigrants he had advised. (Mr. Mejia's
case was not among them.)

Mr. Gadda is hardly alone. As the number of illegal immigrants in the country
has swollen to what the Department of Homeland Security conservatively estimates
at nine million, so have the ranks of those who inhabit the immigration
business's underbelly, posing as well-meaning advisers to those in search of a
new job, a new home and a green card if not full citizenship. Immigrants,
strangers in a foreign land for whom a green card means a ticket to a fuller
life, are ideal prey for con artists and would-be consultants out for a quick
buck.

ANALYSTS, lawyers and immigration specialists say that the current debate over
immigration reform is also providing a perfect business environment for those
who prey on the undocumented in the Chinatowns, barrios and other immigrant
enclaves around the country.

''Every time there's talk of a new law passing, these scammers basically pop
up'' and aim at immigrants, said Victor D. Nieblas, an immigration lawyer based
in Los Angeles who teaches at Loyola Law School there. ''It's big business.''

The worst offenders, Mr. Nieblas and others said, tend to be immigration
consultants, or ''notarios'' -- nonlawyers who, whether or not they are
qualified to do so, are in the business of helping aliens negotiate the
immigration system. Even the name ''notarios'' rankles immigrant advocates: in
many Latin American countries, a ''notario publico'' is a professional licensed
to represent people in legal matters.

''For unscrupulous attorneys and other practitioners, a change in the law
represents a kind of open season on aliens,'' said Jennifer J. Barnes, the
general counsel for the Executive Office for Immigration Review, a unit of the
Justice Department. ''That's what's happened in the past when we've enacted
changes in immigration law, and I'm sure if a new law passes this time, we'll
see people out there trying to take advantage of the situation.''

Yet that seems to be happening already. People who closely monitor the national
immigration debate may know that the House of Representatives and the Senate are
so far apart on their immigration bills that no new amnesty laws may be enacted
-- but that information reaches illegal immigrants only in fractured pieces.
Even then, immigrant advocates say, some notarios and others milking the process
for financial gain warp and bend the true parameters of asylum opportunities to
take advantage of legions of hopefuls.

Mr. Nieblas, who is a host of a weekly immigration advice program on a
Spanish-language radio station in Southern California, said he was already
hearing from callers who contended that local notarios were ''asking them for
money so they can start processing people under the new law, though there is no
new law.''

Lori A. Nessel, an associate professor at the Seton Hall University School of
Law who runs its Immigration and Human Rights Clinic, has picked up on the same
chatter on the East Coast.

''The concern is that you have these notarios out there saying, 'Pay now and get
your applications in now for the amnesty,' when there's no reason to be taking
people's money until there's a law,'' Professor Nessel said.

Nelly Reyes is a well-regarded immigration consultant in San Francisco who has
spent the last 15 years helping her Spanish-speaking clients fill out forms,
translate documents and navigate the federal bureaucracy. She earns roughly
$60,000 a year, and says that she could make several times that amount if she
emulated the practices of some of her more nefarious competitors. ''I've gotten
two or three calls over the last month from people saying, 'Let's go into
business together, this is the time to start making a lot of money,' '' Ms.
Reyes said.

By her estimation, more than half her counterparts should be put out of
business, because they are either scam artists or incompetents selling skills
they do not possess.

''What's scary right now,'' Ms. Reyes said, ''is that people are saying,
'Whatever it takes, whatever I must pay to become legal.' ''

''It's that attitude that people can take advantage of,'' she added.

Over the past three years, Greg Abbott, the Texas attorney general, has secured
judicial orders to shut down a dozen notarios around the state. That includes
the Aplicacion de Oro, a large immigration consulting firm in West Texas that a
judge ordered closed in January after Mr. Abbott said that its two owners had
''scammed'' hundreds of immigrants out of thousands of dollars each, according
to a press release. In California, the state attorney general, Bill Lockyer, has
obtained civil judgments against roughly two dozen immigration consultants since
2000, a department spokesman said.

But advocates for immigrants say that California and Texas are the exception to
the rule, and that most local district attorneys, who are also charged with
monitoring consumer fraud, contend that their resources are too thinly stretched
to devote much -- if any -- time to investigating immigration consultants.
Moreover, advocates say, the problem is so widespread in California, Texas, New
York and other states where illegal immigrants tend to live that even the most
well-meaning efforts seem futile.

''The authorities will close down one of these shops, and a couple of weeks
later they'll open up someplace else,'' said Mr. Nieblas, who is also an officer
in the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ''There are literally hundreds
of these businesses in the Los Angeles area alone that are targeting the
community.''

At the moment, the most common fraud perpetuated on illegal immigrants -- and
certainly the most lucrative -- is the kind that Mr. Mejia and his new lawyer
believe almost had him sent back to Guatemala. ''There are any number of
immigration scams, but the asylum scam is by far and away the most popular right
now,'' said Nora Privitera, a lawyer for the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in
San Francisco. The brilliance of asylum fraud, at least from the perspective of
the perpetrator, is that the federal government ends up sending most of the
casualties back to their lands of origin.

''Their victims are typically deported and can't rat on them,'' Ms. Privitera
said.

There are two general versions of the asylum scheme. The more simple of the two
has a lawyer or notario convincing an illegal immigrant to pay the going rate of
about $5,000 -- more if a client is willing to pay for appeals -- to apply for
asylum. The payment changes hands, even though the illegal immigrant is unlikely
to secure asylum status, which is meant for those who would face persecution
back in their home country if they were deported.

That is among the accusations that the State Bar of California was leveling at
Walter Pineda, an immigration lawyer, in a San Francisco hearing room last week.
According to immigration experts, people typically emigrate from Mexico to
search for better economic opportunities, not because they fear for their
safety. Even so, Mr. Pineda routinely encouraged his Mexican clients to file
''meritless'' asylum applications, according to the state bar, which has accused
him of more than two dozen counts of incompetence and five counts of moral
turpitude for what it called ''repeatedly and knowingly'' lying to his clients.

The bar association contends that Mr. Pineda would routinely ''take client money
to file frivolous applications, spend no time actually trying to develop a
viable position for the clients to stay legally in the United States, lose the
applications for asylum and take more money to file frivolous appeals.''

Doron Weinberg, Mr. Pineda's lawyer, said, ''We admit to the general facts, but
as you can imagine, we deny every judgment that has my client doing something
reprehensible.''

An immigration lawyer typically works hard for a $5,000 fee -- assembling
evidence, prepping witnesses, drawing up arguments to convince a skeptical
immigration hearing officer that a client deserves asylum. Then there are cases
like those of Mr. Mejia, the Guatemalan handyman who lost $6,600 pursuing his
asylum case.

Guatemalan rebels kidnapped Mr. Mejia, the son of a government employee, when he
was 7 years old and the country was in the midst of a prolonged civil war; two
years after securing his release, his family fled Guatemala for the United
States. Like so many illegal immigrants, Mr. Mejia and his parents did their
best to live their lives out of the view of the authorities -- until a family
friend referred Mr. Gadda to them a half-dozen years ago.

Another lawyer might have been able to make a credible case that Mr. Mejia
deserved asylum. But Mr. Gadda apparently was unwilling or unable to do so. Mr.
Mejia says he believes his own experience reflects the accusations that the
California bar made against Mr. Gadda: that he proved willing to collect fees
but not to do the work for which he was paid.

''This was a lawyer who took money from his clients and repeatedly failed to
perform legal services,'' said Sherrie B. McLetchie, the lead lawyer for the
California bar in the disbarment proceedings against Mr. Gadda. And the
undocumented ''are among the most vulnerable clients any lawyer can represent,''
she said.

Despite his travails, Mr. Mejia stayed the course. It would eventually cost him
over $10,000 more in legal fees beyond what he paid Mr. Gadda, but Ilyce
Shugall, a local immigration lawyer, was able to secure him a green card in
April. ''I worked after work, and I worked on weekends,'' to pay the added fees,
Mr. Mejia said.

Ms. Shugall said that Mr. Gadda ''had made such a mess out of the asylum claim
that we decided to drop it.'' Instead, Ms. Shugall, who works for the law firm
of Van Der Hout, Brigagliano & Nightingale in San Francisco, pursued an
alternative claim known as a ''cancellation-of-removal'' order. Such orders
grant green cards to anyone who has lived in the United States for at least 10
years and can demonstrate that a parent or a child in the country legally would
suffer ''exceptional and unusual hardship'' if the applicant was deported. Mr.
Mejia, who arrived here in the late 1980's and later became the primary care
provider for his ailing parents, met that criteria and won his green card.

MR. MEJIA was fortunate to have an advocate like Ms. Shugall, because
cancellation-of-removal orders are often central to the other type of fraud
involving an asylum claim. In it, a deceitful notario or lawyer tells potential
clients that they qualify for a cancellation order, but does not disclose a
crucial prerequisite: that even if they are care providers for a legal but
ailing resident who is a parent or child, they must still prove that a loved one
would suffer extreme hardship if the authorities deported the caregiver.

''That's a very difficult standard to meet, but people are not told that part of
it,'' said Ms. Privitera of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center. The most
insidious aspect of this unfortunate legal strategy, Ms. Privitera said, is that
first the lawyer or immigration consultant must get someone into the system,
because only if there is a removal order in place can someone petition to have
the order rescinded, which would lead to a green card. The simplest way to do
this is to request asylum, so the client will typically pay thousands of dollars
for a futile asylum claim and, after the loss, will spend thousands of dollars
more to pursue a legalization strategy that is far more likely to snare a
deportation order than a green card.

''Once you're in immigration court, there's only two ways out,'' Ms. Privitera
said. ''You get granted something, or you get told to leave. There's no
prosecutorial discretion for people who come into court because they've been
defrauded.''

Illegal immigrants who escape this trap are those who find a capable lawyer
willing to take on their botched cases before they are deported -- immigrants
like Silvia Castillo of San Jose, Calif. Ms. Castillo, along with four other
plaintiffs, has filed a suit accusing Rose Ann Martinez, an immigration
consultant, and several San Francisco Bay Area lawyers of conspiring ''on a
fraudulent immigration scheme.'' Ms. Castillo, a housekeeper and single mother
of two, said the process cost her about $10,000.

''My mother basically spent her entire life's savings,'' said Glancy Robles, her
16-year-old daughter.

According to the complaint, filed earlier this year in California, Ms. Martinez
persuaded Ms. Castillo and her fellow plaintiffs, all of them illegal immigrants
from Mexico, to pursue the cancellation-of-removal strategy. But, court papers
say, Ms. Martinez never informed her clients that they also had to file an
asylum application, which would put them in peril of deportation. The victims
also contend that Ms. Martinez failed to tell them that a
cancellation-of-removal order was rare and that they would be successful only if
they also proved that their deportation would cause extreme hardship for a
parent or child. Ms. Martinez declined to comment.

Because both of Ms. Castillo's children were born in the United States, they are
citizens. But both are healthy. Ms. Castillo lost her case -- and her family
would have been forced to move back to Mexico if not for the intervention of
Vaughan de Kirby, a San Francisco lawyer.

Mr. de Kirby was able to convince a judge that sending Ms. Castillo back to
Mexico also meant deporting her two children, both of whom were in school at the
time. He also was able to prove that her two daughters would experience extreme
hardship if they were forced to leave the country, thereby clearing up the mess
that he said Ms. Martinez -- and the outside law firm she commissioned -- had
made of Ms. Castillo's case.

''Immigration consultants serve a valuable function, because they can operate at
a cost factor for people who can't afford an attorney,'' Mr. de Kirby said.
''But unfortunately they're not well regulated, and there are abuses.''

Mr. Nieblas, the Los Angeles immigration lawyer, is not nearly so generous in
his comments about notarios. He estimates that he meets with as many as 20
people a month who have shown up in his office after an immigration consultant
has botched a case through incompetence or malfeasance. If it were up to him, he
said, he would outlaw immigration consultants altogether.

Another Los Angeles immigration lawyer, Alan R. Diamante, says that ''70 to 80
percent of my clients have either been victims of a notario, or a lawyer working
together with a notario.'' He, too, says he does not believe that notarios play
a legitimate role in handling the legal mechanics of immigration.

LIKE other lawyers interviewed for this article, both Mr. Nieblas and Mr.
Diamante said that they would never advise clients to reveal their residency
status to authorities on the chance that they might secure a
cancellation-of-removal order. He said that the stakes were very high, and the
chances of winning low.

''I've had clients come to me and say, 'I've got a son who is suffering from
this disease or that disease, let me turn myself in,' '' Mr. Nieblas said. ''I
always tell them no. But some then just find someone else to handle the case.
They've heard from people on the streets that this is the perfect opportunity to
get a green card, and they don't want to believe me -- and they can always find
a notario who'll take their case.''

The undocumented are not always on the losing end of immigration schemes. In
Chinatown in San Francisco, for instance, an immigrant can spend $20,000 to
$40,000 over six to seven years fighting to secure a green card, said Steve W.
Baughman, a local immigration lawyer. Alternatively, he said, the same person
can find an unscrupulous consultant who, for roughly $5,000, ''will teach you
how to lie and cheat your way into a bogus asylum claim.''

For example, the granting of asylum is nearly automatic for a Chinese expatriate
who claims religious and political persecution because he or she is a member of
the Falun Gong spiritual sect. So some immigration consultants, Mr. Baughman
said, maintain libraries of materials and videos about the group so that illegal
immigrants can fake membership in Falun Gong when an asylum officer quizzes
them.

''I can hardly blame people for doing it,'' he said. ''It's the supply side that
needs to be dealt with.''

The federal government's Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
Chris Bentley, a spokesman, does what it can to spread the word that illegal
immigrants must be careful about whom they turn to when seeking legal
assistance. ''If people snuck in the country illegally, we still don't want them
to be taken by someone hanging out a shingle on a street corner, claiming
they're an immigration expert when they're not,'' Mr. Bentley said.

Yet the abuses of immigration consultants are hardly a top priority, Mr. Bentley
acknowledged, for an agency now tucked inside the Department of Homeland
Security.

The San Francisco district attorney's office will ''vigorously prosecute any
complaints we receive'' about immigration consultants, said an assistant
district attorney, June Cravett. Her office, she said, is trying to spread the
word that it offers a haven for illegal immigrants who feel that they have been
fleeced by a scam artist.

BUT limited resources mean that her office does not set up sting operations or
the like, Ms. Cravett said. ''Unfortunately, we haven't received that many
complaints,'' she said.

The local authorities in Los Angeles have adopted a similar approach, said Mr.
Diamante, a former president of the local Mexican American Bar Association.
''They do one major token case every five years, it gets a lot of attention, and
then that's it,'' he said.

Immigrant advocates and law enforcement officials in California point to the
district attorney's office in Santa Clara County, in the heart of Silicon
Valley, as a model enforcement program. But they say that while county officials
have taken impressive steps to crack down on unscrupulous notarios, the office's
experiences and limited resources still underscore how hard it is to rein in the
problem.

''There are so many of them it's really hard to go after every single one,''
said Martha J. Donohoe, a deputy district attorney in the county who oversees
her office's efforts to monitor immigration consultants. ''Basically our focus
has had to have been going after the really bad actors.''

When she has a law clerk, Ms. Donohoe says, her office can monitor the
immigration consultant industry more proactively. Otherwise, her office must
wait until it receives complaints from local advocacy groups that represent
illegal immigrants, she said.

''I hate to say it, but by the time we go after someone, they've typically hurt
so many people,'' Ms. Donohoe said. ''Typically it takes years to bring one of
these cases, and the word has to really spread that someone is a bad, bad actor
before we get people who are here illegally to bring a complaint.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Celso Lima Mejia says he lost $6,600 to an immigration lawyer,
who was later disbarred. Mr. Mejia stood near a mural by the artist Joel
Bergner. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Victor Nieblas, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, says talk of a new law on
amnesty has helped prompt dishonest people to step forward to prey on the fears
of people who are living in the United States illegally. (Photo by Jamie Rector
for The New York Times)
Nelly Reyes, an immigration consultant in San Francisco, says that in the
current climate, ''People are saying, 'Whatever it takes, whatever I must pay to
become legal.' It's that attitude that people can take advantage of.'' (Photo by
Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 Nora Privitera, a lawyer in San Francisco, points out that many victims of
shady immigration schemes are deported, making it less likely that the person or
people who collected their money will be caught. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New
York Times)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Supports Broad Powers Of Detention

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words


A federal judge in Brooklyn ruled yesterday that the government has wide
latitude under immigration law to detain noncitizens on the basis of religion,
race or national origin, and to hold them indefinitely without explanation.

The ruling came in a class-action lawsuit by Muslim immigrants detained after
9/11, and it dismissed several key claims the detainees had made against the
government. But the judge, John Gleeson of United States District Court for the
Eastern District of New York, allowed the lawsuit to continue on other claims,
mostly that the conditions of confinement were abusive and unconstitutional.
Judge Gleeson's decision requires top federal officials, including former
Attorney General John Ashcroft and Robert S. Mueller III, the F.B.I. director,
to answer to those accusations under oath.

This is the first time a federal judge has addressed the issue of discrimination
in the treatment of hundreds of Muslim immigrants who were swept up in the weeks
after the 2001 terror attacks and held for months before they were cleared of
links to terrorism and deported. The roundups drew intense criticism, not only
from immigrant rights advocates, but also from the inspector general of the
Justice Department, who issued reports saying that the government had made
little or no effort to distinguish between genuine suspects and Muslim
immigrants with minor visa violations.

Lawyers in the suit, who vowed to appeal yesterday's decision, said parts of the
ruling could potentially be used far more broadly, to detain any noncitizen in
the United States for any reason.

''This decision is a green light to racial profiling and prolonged detention of
noncitizens at the whim of the president,'' said Rachel Meeropol, a lawyer for
the Center for Constitutional Rights, which represented the detainees. ''The
decision is profoundly disturbing because it legitimizes the fact that the Bush
administration rounded up and imprisoned our clients because of their religion
and race.''

A spokesman for the government, Charles S. Miller, would not respond to those
assertions, saying only that the Justice Department was ''very pleased that the
court upheld the decision to detain plaintiffs, all of whom were illegal aliens,
until national security investigations were completed and plaintiffs were
removed from the country.'' He said the government was reviewing the rest of the
opinion to decide whether to appeal the rulings Judge Gleeson made to allow the
plaintiffs' other claims to proceed.

In his 99-page ruling, Judge Gleeson rejected the government's argument that the
events of Sept. 11 justified extraordinary measures to confine noncitizens who
fell under suspicion, or that the attacks heightened top officials' need for
government immunity to combat future threats to national security without fear
of being sued.

But his interpretation of immigration law gave the government broad discretion
to enforce the law selectively against noncitizens of a particular religion,
race or national origin, and to detain them indefinitely, for any unspecified
reason, after an immigration judge had ordered them removed from the country.

''The executive is free to single out 'nationals of a particular country' and
focus enforcement efforts on them,'' the judge wrote. ''This is, of course, an
extraordinarily rough and overbroad sort of distinction of which, if applied to
citizens, our courts would be highly suspicious.''

Yet, he continued, the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that Congress and the
executive branch, in exercising their broad power over naturalization and
immigration, can make rules that would be unacceptable if applied to American
citizens.

In the judge's view, the government has the right to detain people indefinitely
as long as their eventual removal is ''reasonably foreseeable.'' If that
interpretation stands, it could apply to millions of noncitizens, including
tourists removable for visa violations, said Gerald L. Neuman, a law professor
at Columbia who is an expert in human rights law and was not involved in the
case.

''It doesn't seem to limit the motives the government has to have in being slow
in removing them; it could even be just basic neglect,'' he said.

But Professor Neuman cautioned that ''it's only a district judge's decision.''

''The decision encourages the government to behave this way without fear of
financial liability,'' he said, but it does not carry the weight of a ruling by
an appellate court. ''This interpretation is attackable even among other judges
in Brooklyn, let alone Lower Manhattan.''

But David Cole, a law professor at Georgetown University and a co-counsel in the
lawsuit, said the ruling was the only one of its kind and made New York ''an
equal protection-free zone'' because the government can detain immigrants
wherever it chooses.

''What this decision says is the next time there is a terror attack, the
government is free to round up every Muslim immigrant in the U.S., based solely
on their ethnic and religious identity, and hold them on immigration pretexts
for as long as it desires,'' he said. ''We saw after 9/11 what the government
did in an era of uncertainty about how far it can go. Judge Gleeson has
essentially given them a green light to go much further.''

The class-action lawsuit, Turkmen v. Ashcroft, is the first and largest of
several brought by immigrants held after 9/11. The named plaintiffs in the case
include former detainees who came back to the United States this year for
depositions and were required to be in the custody of federal marshals at all
times. Among them were Hany Ibrahim, a deli worker, and his brother, Yasser, a
Web designer, Egyptian Muslims who said then that putting themselves back in the
hands of the government they were suing was an act of faith in America.

Yesterday, Yasser Ibrahim, who had lived in New York for three or four years on
an expired tourist visa and was delivered in shackles to the Metropolitan
Detention Center in Brooklyn soon after Sept. 11, said through his lawyers that
he was shocked and very disappointed by the judge's decision.

''I can't believe the court would allow this to happen,'' he said.'' I am
frightened for other Muslims in the United States, who could face the same
discrimination and abuse that I suffered.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 21, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Plans National Hearings Before Changes to Immigration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


In a decision that puts an overhaul of immigration laws in serious doubt, House
Republican leaders said Tuesday that they would hold summer hearings around the
nation on the politically volatile subject before trying to compromise with the
Senate on a chief domestic priority of President Bush.

''We are going to listen to the American people, and we are going to get a bill
that is right,'' said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, who said he had informed Mr.
Bush of the plan.

The unusual decision to set a new round of hearings on legislation already
passed by the House and the Senate places a serious roadblock in the way of Mr.
Bush's drive for major changes in immigration policy.

The timing means that formal Congressional negotiations will not begin until
September, just as Congressional campaigns are entering their crucial final
weeks, when lawmakers typically shy away from difficult issues.

''I don't know how likely that is,'' Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the
House Republican whip, said about reaching an agreement before November.

Mr. Blunt suggested that final consideration might have to wait for a lame-duck
session after the election. ''We clearly are going to be here later in the
year,'' he said.

But advancing significant legislation in lame-duck sessions has proved
difficult. If Congress does not act this year, the House and the Senate will
have to begin anew in 2007 should lawmakers want to pursue immigration changes.

A White House spokeswoman said Mr. Bush would press for legislation. ''The
president is undeterred in his efforts to pass a comprehensive immigration
reform bill,'' said the spokeswoman, Dana Perino, who said the White House was
''committed to working with members to see if we can reach a consensus on a bill
that will help solve our nation's immigration problems.''

The leadership decision reflected the deep resistance among House Republicans to
the bipartisan approach approved in May by the Senate and generally endorsed by
Mr. Bush. That bill combined new border enforcement with a program for temporary
guest workers and the ability of illegal immigrants to qualify for citizenship
by meeting a series of requirements.

House Republicans passed a party-line bill late last year that focused solely on
border enforcement, and they said a majority of the public backed their
approach. Many House Republicans consider the Senate bill amnesty for those who
have entered the country illegally.

''Our No. 1 priority is to secure the border,'' Mr. Hastert said, ''and right
now I haven't heard a lot of pressure to have a path to citizenship.''

In a swipe at the Senate version, Representative Deborah Pryce of Ohio, a senior
member of the Republican leadership, labeled the legislation the ''Kennedy
bill'' -- a dismissive reference to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, who helped write the measure in cooperation with Republicans
including Senators Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and John McCain of Arizona.

Those lawmakers held out hope on Tuesday that a final bill could be completed
this year and said they accepted the House position that more scrutiny of the
issue was required. ''I respect their views,'' Mr. McCain said, ''and I hope
that we can still continue discussions, and hopefully we can reach an
agreement.''

Another Republican proponent, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, warned
that voters might punish Republicans if they were unable to come up with a
solution to such a pressing national problem.

''The question is, Is it better to solve the issue before the election, or is it
better to make people mad and do nothing?'' Mr. Graham said. ''I think it is
hard to go to the electorate when you have the White House, the Senate and the
House and say that you cannot at least go through the effort of trying to get a
bill. That would to me be a sign of inability to govern.''

Democrats were highly critical of House Republicans, with Mr. Kennedy accusing
them of a ''cynical effort to delay or kill a comprehensive immigration bill.''

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said Republicans were
stalling, and he called on Mr. Bush to prod members of his party. ''He has
complete domination over this Republican Congress,'' Mr. Reid said. ''Let him
tell us how much he really wants a bill.''

The focus of the summer hearings and the schedule were uncertain Tuesday as
Republicans suggested that they would be used both to explore the content of the
Senate bill and to survey public opinion on the issue. But it was clear House
Republicans intended to use the forums to try to expose what they saw as
failings in the Senate bill and to build public opposition to that approach.

''The House bill is very different than the Senate bill, and I think we want to
have a clear understanding of what is in that bill,'' said Representative John
A. Boehner of Ohio, the House majority leader.

The hearings could also help House Republicans rally conservative supporters in
advance of the election, particularly given a recent special election in
Southern California in which immigration emerged as a dominant issue. But
Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, the chairman of the National
Republican Congressional Committee, said Tuesday that the topic's power varied
from district to district.

''It is not, in my view, a situation that has the same resonance in each
district,'' Mr. Reynolds said.

Official Opposes Border Wall

  TUCSON, June 20 (AP) --The new commissioner of Customs and Border Protection
said Tuesday that he did not favor building a huge wall along the Mexican
border.

''I don't support, I don't believe the administration supports a wall,'' the
commissioner, W. Ralph Basham, said. ''It doesn't make sense; it's not
practical.''

Fencing, including so-called smart fencing with sensors, vehicle barriers and
lighting, will be part of the infrastructure improvements, Mr. Basham said. But
a layered approach combining technology and air operations will be necessary, he
said.

Mr. Basham, only two weeks on the job, is touring the Southwest border region to
look at the challenges his agency is facing as National Guard troops arrive to
begin assisting its efforts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 23, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Republicans Schedule Immigration Hearings in Border States

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22


House Republicans announced on Thursday a series of summer hearings on
immigration policy to be held in California, Arizona and Texas and challenged
the view that the sessions were intended to delay new immigration legislation.

''We can send an immigration bill to the president this year,'' Speaker J.
Dennis Hastert declared at a news conference and surrounded by his fellow
leaders and chairmen of the committees that will hold the hearings. But Mr.
Hastert, Republican of Illinois, said the House would not be hurried.

''We want to make sure that the Congress gets this done the right way and not to
be rushed just because it's an election year,'' he said.

Sessions are planned in San Diego and Laredo, Tex., on July 5 and July 7,
respectively, on border vulnerabilities and international terrorism; hearings on
English as the official language and enforcement of current immigration laws are
planned for mid-July; and hearings are planned in Arizona in mid-August on costs
to the government resulting from gaps in border control.

The Armed Services Committee also plans a hearing in Yuma, Ariz., on the role of
the National Guard at the border, and additional hearings are likely to be
scheduled on a variety of other issues.

House Republicans said the meetings would provide a needed forum for Americans
to offer their views on contending with illegal immigration as well as provide a
chance to explore a measure passed by the Senate that House Republicans oppose
for numerous reasons, including the opportunity it provides for illegal
immigrants to gain citizenship.

Some Republicans and Democrats said the hearings were a ruse to stall
negotiations with the Senate until after the election while giving Republicans a
way to attack the Senate bill and rally election support.

Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, said her party
would have something to say, as well. ''What Democrats will do is go around the
country, wherever the Republicans want to go, and say the American people want
some answers,'' Ms. Pelosi told reporters on Thursday. ''Why haven't you
protected the border? Why haven't you protected American workers?''

In a countermove, the Senate Judiciary Committee is planning its own hearings,
beginning with one July 5 in Pennsylvania. Senator Arlen Specter, the
Pennsylvania Republican who is chairman of the panel, said he would examine such
issues as the need for a guest worker program and how to contend with millions
of illegal aliens already in the nation.

Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, said he backed the House move.
''Hearings, done right, will do much to knit together a common understanding of
the challenges we face and the choices we must make to write an immigration
reform law of which the Congress and the country can rightly be proud,'' Mr.
Frist said.

The dueling hearings set the stage for a summer of political clashes over
immigration heading toward the November elections and could provide a stage for
activism by those on both sides of the issue.

While lawmakers moved ahead with their plans, the White House continued to press
lawmakers to try to strike a deal on final legislation in September, after the
hearings. And interest groups backing the Senate's approach, which has been
generally endorsed by President Bush, released a poll on Thursday by the
Tarrance Group that found 72 percent of likely Republican voters considered it
important that Congress take action on immigration legislation this year.

House Republican leaders insisted on Thursday that their objective was to
produce a final bill, but they said that it must emphasize border enforcement,
new criminal penalties for illegal immigrants and sanctions on employers who
hire them before Congress moves ahead with the subjects of temporary guest
workers or potential citizenship.

''Unless we enforce our laws, the door will slowly close shut to immigrants,''
said Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin and
chairman of the Judiciary Committee. ''There has to be a differentiation between
the legal immigrants, which we have welcomed in the past and should continue to
welcome, those who obey our law, and those who break our law by entering the
United States illegally.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaking to reporters yesterday about problems with impending
immigration legislation were, from left, Representatives Roy Blunt, F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr., Vernon J. Ehlers, Peter T. King and the speaker, J. Dennis
Hastert, who said that the House would not be hurried. (Photo by Jamie Rose for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 21, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistani Gets 30 Years for Aiding Qaeda Operative

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 182 words


A Pakistani immigrant convicted of aiding Al Qaeda was sentenced yesterday to 30
years in prison.

The man, Uzair Paracha, 26, was convicted in Federal District Court in Manhattan
in November of trying to help Majid Khan, a Pakistani member of Al Qaeda, obtain
documents in 2003 to travel to the United States from Pakistan.

According to trial testimony and Justice Department documents, Mr. Khan had
planned with top Qaeda leaders in Pakistan to bomb underground storage tanks at
gas stations in Maryland.

Mr. Paracha impersonated Mr. Khan, including posing as him during telephone
calls with the Immigration and Naturalization Service and using his credit card
to make it appear as though Mr. Khan had never left the United States, when in
fact he had gone to Pakistan without notifying immigration authorities.

Mr. Paracha was arrested in March 2003 and faced up to 75 years in prison after
being convicted on five charges, including conspiracy to provide and providing
material support to Al Qaeda and identification-document fraud for the purpose
of engaging in international terrorism.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Finds Disparities In Judges' Asylum Rulings

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 662 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


An examination of thousands of immigration cases has found wide disparities in
the rate at which judges grant asylum to people seeking haven in the United
States, according to a study released Sunday by a private research group.

One judge in Miami denied 96.7 percent of the asylum cases before him in which
the petitioner had a lawyer. It was the highest denial rate in the nation
between the beginning of the fiscal year 2000 and the first few months of fiscal
year 2005 , the study found. In contrast, a New York judge granted asylum in all
but 9.8 percent of such cases.

Ten percent of the nation's immigration judges denied asylum cases in 86 percent
or more of their decisions, while another 10 percent of judges denied asylum
cases in 34 percent of their rulings during that same time period, the study
found.

The report, which examined 297,240 immigration cases from fiscal year 1994
through the first few months of fiscal year 2005, was done by the Transactional
Records Access Clearinghouse, a research group connected to Syracuse University.
The data was collected from the Justice Department, which oversees the nation's
immigration courts.

Because of factors that included changes in immigration law, the clearinghouse
divided the asylum cases into two groups, those decided from 1994 to 1999, and
those decided from 2000 to 2005.

The study found wide variations in how different nationalities were treated. It
reported that more than 80 percent of asylum seekers from Haiti and El Salvador
were denied asylum for the period beginning in 2000, while fewer than 30 percent
of asylum seekers from Afghanistan or Myanmar, formerly Burma, were denied.

David Burnham, co-director of the research group, said the findings seemed to
call into question the government's ''commitment to providing a uniform
application of the nation's immigration laws in all cases.''

Mr. Burnham said a copy of the report had been provided to the Justice
Department. A spokesman for the Justice Department did not return calls for
comment on Sunday.

The study echoes a report released last year by the United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom, an agency created by Congress in 1998. The
commission study, which examined the processing of asylum cases from 2000
through 2004, found that more than 80 percent of Cubans were given a permanent
right to stay in the United States, along with more than 60 percent of Iraqis.
By contrast, just more than 10 percent of those from Haiti and fewer than 5
percent from El Salvador were granted asylum.

That study also found that only 2 percent of asylum seekers without a lawyer
were granted asylum, compared with 25 percent of those who had a lawyer.

The study by Mr. Burnham's group found that 7 percent of asylum seekers lacking
legal representation won asylum, compared with 36 percent of those with lawyers.

The handling of asylum cases has become a delicate issue recently as federal
appeals judges have assailed what they have described as a pattern of biased and
incoherent decisions from immigration judges in asylum cases, which make up the
bulk of immigration appeals.

In September, the federal appeals court in Philadelphia said it had been
repeatedly forced to rebuke immigration judges for ''intemperate and humiliating
remarks.'' Citing cases from around the country, the court described ''a
disturbing pattern'' of misconduct in immigration rulings that sent people back
to countries where they had said they would face persecution.

In November, Richard A. Posner, a prominent and relatively conservative federal
appeals court judge in Chicago, concluded that the handling of asylum cases by
immigration judges had ''fallen below the minimum standards of legal justice.''

Concerned about what he described as ''intemperate or even abusive'' conduct by
some immigration judges, Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales called for a
comprehensive review of the immigration court system in January.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Judges Facing Yearly Performance Reviews

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 817 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9


Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales warned the nation's 215 immigration judges
on Wednesday that they all faced annual performance evaluations for the first
time and regular scrutiny to detect high reversal rates, frequent complaints or
unusual backlogs.

But the consequences of failing were not spelled out. And some of the judges
said they worried that evaluations would increase pressure on all judges to make
decisions faster, without weeding out the handful of judges who have drawn the
most criticism.

Immigration judges, who now handle 300,000 cases a year under stepped-up
guidelines, are employees of the Justice Department, not the federal judiciary.
After battling for years to unionize, they ratified their first labor contract
on Monday.

Performance evaluations were among several measures, most still in the planning
stages, that Mr. Gonzales announced here in a luncheon speech at the judges'
annual training conference. He has been under mounting pressure to disclose the
findings of a comprehensive review that he ordered last January after federal
appeals courts around the country complained of a pattern of biased and
incoherent decisions on asylum and rebuked some immigration judges by name for
''bullying'' and ''brow-beating'' people seeking refuge from persecution.

The speech was closed to the news media, but according to prepared remarks, he
assured the immigration judges that the review had found that the vast majority
did their jobs well ''under pressures that would try even the most patient among
us.''

But Mr. Gonzales added: ''Patterns have developed around specific areas of
concern. I have seen evidence that some immigration judges, on rare occasions,
do behave inappropriately toward those appearing before them, whether aliens,
their representatives'' or Department of Homeland Security lawyers.

Mr. Gonzales acknowledged that many critics attributed the problems to recent
changes intended to streamline the Board of Immigration Appeals. Many federal
judges say the changes, which reduced the number of judges on the board to 11
from 23, turned the board's internal review of immigration judges' decisions
into a rubber stamp, shifting the burden of re-examination to the federal
courts.

But the attorney general defended those changes, saying they had worked to
reduce a big backlog, while suggesting that a few modifications might be made.
He said he would seek to add four members to the board, who would also be
subject to yearly evaluations, and devise a system to identify cases appealed to
federal court and refer them back to the board for additional review.

Mr. Gonzales said he intended to prepare a budget request to hire more
immigration judges, staff lawyers and law clerks.

Other proposals include giving judges appointed after this year an immigration
law exam and a two-year probation, upgrading electronic equipment in courts
where judges now handle manual tape recorders themselves, and giving judges the
power to fine lawyers for frivolous filings or false statements.

Denise N. Slavin, an immigration judge in Miami and the president of the
National Association of Immigration Judges, the union local, said her colleagues
would welcome more resources. But Ms. Slavin said the performance evaluations
raised serious concerns for the independence of judges who by statute are
supposed to be neutral, independent decision makers, despite working for the
attorney general, like the government lawyers who appear before them.

''We want to be sure that no one's performance is evaluated on quantity rather
than quality,'' she said.

Among the questions unresolved are who will have a hand in the evaluation, Ms.
Slavin noted. If complaints are solicited from the lawyers, she said, liberal
judges could be at risk of criticism from the Department of Homeland Security
and conservative judges could be at risk from members of the private bar.

Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said that the process
of developing the evaluations was just beginning, and that no decisions had been
made on how they would be done.

But Mr. Roehrkasse added, ''The attorney general's directive makes clear that
performance appraisals will not be used to tell judges whether to grant or deny
relief'' but will focus on their professionalism, reasoning and courteous
manner.

Mr. Gonzales also called for the director of the Executive Office of Immigration
Review and the acting chief immigration judge to review a recent study
highlighting disparities in the rate at which immigration judges grant and deny
asylum ''and, if appropriate,'' to make recommendations on the issue.

''There are serious complaints coming from the Courts of Appeals, the press, and
a host of other observers,'' he said. ''You know, as professionals, that these
criticisms should not be ignored, and they cannot continue to cast a shadow over
your work.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Thursday about plans to subject immigration judges to
annual performance evaluations referred incorrectly to the lawyers who represent
the government in cases before them. The lawyers report to the secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security, not to the attorney general, to whom the judges
report.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Riverside: Immigration-Law Clash

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 90 words


Hundreds of demonstrators gathered in Riverside, at left, yesterday afternoon,
with some opposing and others supporting a township ordinance banning the hiring
and housing of people who cannot prove legal residence in the United States. The
police cordoned off the town's main streets to keep the demonstrations under
control. Immigrants' rights groups have protested the ordinance, adopted last
month in Riverside, a community of about 8,000 people. The ordinance would
punish landlords and employers who house or employ illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tim Shaffer/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: White Plains: Laborers Drop Part Of Lawsuit

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 96 words


Day laborers who have accused a suburban village of harassing them on the
streets as they looked for work dropped all claims of First Amendment violations
yesterday rather than reveal their immigration status. The decision, just before
the start of a trial in Federal District Court, means that the plaintiffs will
no longer argue that the village of Mamaroneck, 23 miles north of New York City,
was attacking their rights to free speech and free association. The case now
rests on the workers' 14th Amendment claim that they were discriminated against
because they are Hispanic.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistani Youth Wins Political Asylum Despite U.S. Protests

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 608 words


An orphaned young man living in Queens won a battle against deportation to his
native Pakistan yesterday when an immigration judge granted his plea for
political asylum over legal objections by the Department of Homeland Security.

The judge, Patricia A. Rohan, ruled that the young man, Mohammad Sarfaraz
Hussain, 21, had reason to be afraid that if deported, he would become the
target of violent extremists ''who would try to use him as a 'poster child' for
anti-American views.''

''Return to Pakistan would not only jeopardize his safety, but his emotional
development as well,'' Judge Rohan said, citing ''the very compelling
circumstances of his life.'' The judge referred to a psychological report
describing his symptoms of depression and post-traumatic stress disorder since
an earlier reprieve from deportation was unexpectedly withdrawn by immigration
officials in January.

The decision came after a three-hour hearing that included grim expert testimony
from a scholar of Pakistani politics about killings, routine torture and the
likelihood that, as an Americanized orphan whose case has received a lot of
attention, Mr. Hussein would be at high risk of harm. But Chartrisse Adlam, a
government lawyer, said, ''It's just speculation.'' Though Mr. Hussain's case
''does have some sympathetic elements,'' she said, ''the bottom line is the
government does not believe that he met his burden of proof'' for political
asylum.

Lawyers representing Homeland Security raised the stakes minutes before the
hearing. Mr. Hussain's lawyer, Elizabeth OuYang, said that she was given a
hallway ultimatum: If Mr. Hussain withdrew his petition for asylum and accepted
a deportation order, the government would agree not to actually deport him.
Otherwise, Ms. OuYang said, she was told, ''The offer is off the table'' and the
government would appeal if asylum was granted.

At the outset of the hearing, Ms. Adlam's supervisor complained to the judge
that an offer of deferred action had been rejected. But Ms. OuYang noted that a
similar promise in 2003 had proven temporary after changes in leadership and
practices, and if Mr. Hussain accepted an order of deportation, he could be
shipped to Pakistan without seeing a judge again.

The hearing traced family tragedies and world-shaking events that brought Mr.
Hussain to this point.

His uncle, Kamal U. Ahmed, a naturalized American citizen from Bangladesh, broke
down and wept on the stand as he told how his sister begged him to take care of
Mohammad, then 8, as she lay dying of cancer in 1993. Mohammad's father died in
Pakistan in 2000.

By the time he was 18, Mohammad testified, he felt ''all-American,'' playing
basketball on the varsity team at Jamaica High School, enjoying rap music and
speaking freely about his beliefs. In February 2003, he complied with a
government registration program -- --created in response to the attacks of Sept.
11 -- for male noncitizens from predominantly Muslim or Arab countries. The
government then took measures to deport him for lack of proper papers.

Here, he said, ''I have the freedom to speak out against government policies''
-- and he did, criticizing special registration at public forums and in a
documentary that has been shown worldwide. If he were deported to Pakistan, he
said, anti-American fundamentalists would say, '''He grew up there -- look what
they did to him,'' and try to turn him into an anti-American mouthpiece.

But he would refuse, he told the judge. And what would happen then? she asked
him.

''Torture,'' he replied.

After the judge's decision, his lawyer cried, but he kept his composure. ''I had
full faith,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justice for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 344 words


The Supreme Court starts off its term today with arguments in a pair of
immigration cases that turn on a technical issue but could have a considerable
impact on the real world. If the court gives the words ''illicit trafficking''
the wrong interpretation, as some lower courts have, a significant number of
legal immigrants could be unjustly uprooted and deported, or given unduly harsh
criminal sentences.

Federal immigration law, quite reasonably, imposes special conditions on legal
immigrants who are convicted of ''aggravated felonies.'' The law says that
''illicit trafficking'' in drugs is an aggravated felony, and today's cases pose
the question of what that means. The plain meaning of ''trafficking'' in drugs
is engaging in commercial activity. But some courts have ignored this plain
meaning and held that simple possession of drugs can count, and therefore can be
an aggravated felony.

That is the situation of the defendants in today's cases. Reymundo Toledo-Flores
was convicted of possession of cocaine, and Jose Antonio Lopez was convicted of
aiding and abetting possession of cocaine. The courts that heard their cases
ruled that their convictions qualified as trafficking, and therefore as
aggravated felonies. This legal exaggeration has serious consequences.
Noncitizens convicted of aggravated felonies can more easily be deported and can
be barred from becoming American citizens. They can also receive substantially
longer prison sentences if they commit future crimes.

The legal climate is not particularly hospitable to immigrants right now, and
Mr. Toledo-Flores and Mr. Lopez have the additional disadvantage of coming to
court having been convicted of crimes. But their crimes were minor ones that
cannot properly be described as aggravated felonies. As the American Bar
Association notes in a friend-of-the-court brief, treating the two men as if
they had committed worse crimes than they did ''leads not only to individual
injustices'' but also harms ''the integrity and fair and regular operation of
the criminal justice system.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Hauppauge: New Immigration Law

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 64 words


Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, signed into law yesterday a measure
requiring companies with government contracts to verify that their employees are
in the United States legally. Last month, the County Legislature passed the
proposal by a 15-to-3 vote. Opponents fear that the measure could exacerbate
tensions in a region that has seen an influx of day laborers from abroad.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Tamper With the Courts

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 413 words


The debate over immigration in Congress has surfaced quite a few bad ideas. One
of them is a proposal that the Senate is considering to restrict all appeals on
immigration cases to a single federal court. Separating immigration cases out in
this way would skew the judicial process against immigrants and diminish the
entire court system by singling out one class of people for inferior treatment.
It should have no place in immigration reform.

The growing number of immigration appeals is creating a burden on the federal
appeals courts. Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who is
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has proposed routing all of these appeals,
which are now heard by federal appeals courts across the country, to a single
court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Federal
Circuit is a little-known court -- not to be confused with the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia -- with a limited docket that is
heavy in patent cases.

Judges and law professors have been sharply critical of the proposal, at Senate
hearings this week and in letters to the Senate. They rightly point out that one
of the strengths of the federal judicial system is that cases are heard by
judges of general jurisdiction. If the Federal Circuit became the nation's
immigration appeals court, it is likely that presidents would choose judges for
it based on their immigration politics, skewing the court's rulings.

After the criticism of the Federal Circuit proposal, Senator Specter expressed
interest in setting up a single immigration court with judges drawn from appeals
courts across the country. That idea is also flawed. Since only a small number
of judges would sit on it, they, too, could be screened for their views about
immigration.

Having one court handle all immigration cases is also bad because federal law
evolves in large part based on ''circuit splits,'' differences in rulings among
appeals courts, which the Supreme Court resolves. A single court that heard all
immigration appeals would have inordinate power to make law in this important
area.

The best answer to the problem of overburdened appeals courts is overhauling the
Board of Immigration Appeals, which hears the cases first. The board needs more
judges, and those judges need to be made to do a better job. If the Senate took
care of this, there would be no need to tamper with, and do permanent damage to,
the federal appeals courts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kennedy Immigration Tack Vexes Democratic Leaders

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11


To Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the complex issue of immigration policy is simple
enough.

''We are the land of opportunity,'' he said. ''Our streets may not be paved with
gold, but they are paved with the promise that men and women who live here --
even strangers and newcomers -- can rise as fast, as far as their skills will
allow.''

While those words could have been part of his speech Monday to those rallying on
the Mall in Washington, they were delivered more than 40 years ago on the Senate
floor as Mr. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat, managed his first major piece of
legislation -- an immigration bill.

Decades later, Mr. Kennedy, the liberal leader and descendant of Irish
immigrants, is back in the thick of another immigration fight, pushing strongly
for a bipartisan compromise that would toughen border security while providing a
route to legal status for millions of illegal residents. And some of the fight
is with his own Democratic colleagues.

Mr. Kennedy's drive to strike a deal with Republicans is making some in his
party nervous. They worry that the senator, in his desire to bring about changes
in immigration law, will cede too much to Republicans and that the end product
will fall short on the guest worker and citizenship provisions favored by most
Democrats. They believe Mr. Kennedy made similar miscalculations when he cut
initial deals with Republicans on Medicare drug coverage and education policy.

''Just about everyone in the caucus is worried that without safeguards that this
is headed into an unfair, unbalanced bill,'' said one Democratic senator, who
would talk about internal party criticism only on the condition of anonymity.

Republicans acknowledge that Mr. Kennedy served as a valuable ally last week
when he broke with the Democratic leadership in its efforts to blame Republican
recalcitrance for the collapse of the immigration legislation. Mr. Kennedy, in a
split with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said he was
sympathetic to the Republican demand to offer amendments -- a sticking point
with Democrats.

''He certainly helped, by our lights, to make it a more truthful understanding
of what happened, and that leaves the door open for us when we come back,'' said
Eric Ueland, chief of staff to Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader.

The subject of immigration runs deep in Kennedy family lore. According to a
biography by Adam Clymer that focused on Mr. Kennedy's legislative
accomplishments, the senator used to regale his staff with how his maternal
grandfather, John F. Fitzgerald, who was known as Honey Fitz, opposed a literacy
requirement on new immigrants while serving in the House in 1897.

As a senator, John F. Kennedy opposed quotas on immigrants from outside Western
Europe, a cause Edward Kennedy and another brother, Robert, pursued as members
of the Senate. They took on Southern lawmakers who objected to giving Africans
the same opportunity to immigrate as those from Britain.

''This is one of his core issues, one of the things he has been concerned about
the longest,'' said Mr. Clymer, a former reporter for The New York Times, whose
book recounted Mr. Kennedy's 1965 floor speech.

As public outrage over increasing illegal immigration soared in recent years,
Mr. Kennedy joined with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, to find a
solution that went beyond border controls to making accommodations for some of
the millions of working illegal immigrants.

The two veteran lawmakers managed to bring other influential senators on board
and presented a comprehensive plan that provided part of the framework for
legislation approved by the Judiciary Committee. Though that plan met resistance
from Senate Republicans who viewed it as amnesty for those who had entered the
country illegally, the Senate announced a tentative agreement that embraced a
version of the Kennedy-McCain approach. But it lasted only hours. Mr. Frist,
confronted by angry members of his party, insisted on the opportunity to allow
consideration of some amendments. Democrats balked.

In a meeting Thursday evening in Mr. Reid's office, Mr. Kennedy argued for
moving ahead with the bill, confident that the votes were there to beat back
objectionable changes and that the debate could build momentum for the measure.
Mr. Reid and his leadership team countered that the amendments were meant to
derail the bill. They feared that without some assurances by Mr. Frist on
negotiations with the House, the bill could be hijacked by Republicans. Mr.
Kennedy lost.

A top aide to Mr. Reid said Tuesday that he was still determined to get a bill
and disputed assertions that he had made a political calculation to block it.

''Senator Reid is doing what is right for both his caucus and real immigration
reform,'' said Susan McCue, his chief of staff.

Mr. Kennedy said Tuesday that he believed the setback was temporary. ''I think
the momentum in our caucus is strongly in favor of immigration; there is a
difference on tactics,'' said Mr. Kennedy, noting that the situation is far
different for Republicans, who are split over the idea of allowing illegal
residents a chance to qualify for citizenship.

As he took in Monday's immigration rally here, Mr. Kennedy said he heard the
echoes of the civil rights movement and concluded that change was inevitable.

''There is too much velocity to deny it,'' he said. ''This is an extraordinary
grass-roots movement, and I think it is really one that we will have to
answer.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts exhorting the crowd
on Monday during a speech at an immigration rally at the Mall in Washington.
(Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Georgia Law, a Wide-Angle View of Immigration

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1127 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


With dozens of states rushing to fill the vacuum left by long-stalled
Congressional action on immigration legislation, none have rushed faster and
further than Georgia, which recently passed a law that all sides describe as
among the most far-reaching in the nation.

Rather than focusing tightly on restricting access to specific benefits or
cracking down on employment or bogus identity documents, as other states tried
to do, Georgia took the blunderbuss approach, passing a bill hitting as many
areas as possible.

The new law requires Georgia employers to use a federal database to verify that
their workers are legal, instead of using a voluntary system that was widely
ignored. Recipients of most state benefits, including welfare and Medicaid, must
prove they are in the country legally, although some medical services are
exempt. Workers who cannot provide a Social Security number or other taxpayer
identification will be required to pay a 6 percent state withholding tax, taken
from their paychecks.

Jailers must inform the federal authorities if anyone incarcerated is in the
country illegally, and the local authorities are specifically authorized to seek
training to enforce federal immigration laws. And a new criminal offense, human
trafficking, has been added to the books to crack down on those who bring in
large groups of immigrants.

The bill, known as the Georgia Security and Immigration Compliance Act, was
signed by Gov. Sonny Perdue, a Republican, on April 17 and will begin to take
effect on July 1, 2007, with various provisions taking effect over the next
several years.

Ann Morse, director of the Immigrant Policy Project at the National Conference
of State Legislatures, said no other state had gone so far as Georgia in trying
to restrict immigrant benefits and rights since Proposition 187 in California
(passed in 1994 and ruled unconstitutional four years later) and Proposition 200
in Arizona (passed in 2004). Both measure denied many social services to illegal
immigrants.

''There are other bills in legislatures around the country that are somewhat
comprehensive, but nothing as comprehensive as Georgia's,'' Ms. Morse said.

This came about, the bill's author said, because Republican leaders in Georgia
decided that public support was growing for such an initiative.

''We decided that the best thing to do was to take a lot of ideas and put them
together in one bill,'' said State Senator Chip Rogers, a Republican
representing some of Atlanta's far northern suburbs, who wrote the new law and
spearheaded its passage. ''The climate was certainly right.''

Everyone has a theory about why Georgia, of all the states, was the one to
produce such a comprehensive bill on the issue. ''You have to start with the
fact that we have a very conservative Republican Legislature and a conservative
Republican governor,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''And we are the state with the second
fastest-growing immigrant population.''

Tisha Tallman, legal counsel for the Atlanta office of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said something else was at work: the rise of
the issue on the national stage, after several years of gradual ferment in the
trenches, stirred by conservative talk shows.

''There has been legislation proposed the last two sessions, but it was not
taken very seriously until this year,'' she said. ''A certain climate had been
created over the last few years, and it resulted in the whole issue becoming
more mainstream.''

State Senator Sam Zamarripa of Atlanta, an opponent of the new law who is the
Democrats' point man on the issue, said there was something more insidious at
work: a coalition of opportunistic Republicans eager to exploit a fresh-edge
issue in the November elections and anti-immigrant groups hungry for a success
to build upon.

''In my opinion, the national anti-immigrant groups, the nativist organizations,
basically picked Georgia as a place where they could try to devolve
immigration,'' he said. ''They needed a state they could point to, and now they
have one.''

D. A. King, a retired insurance salesman in the Atlanta suburb of Marietta who
has become one of the most prominent voices for the new legislation, said he
resented the accusations that the law was anti-immigrant. He is simply against
illegal immigrants, he said, and Washington has failed to act.

''The Georgia legislation is a direct result of the federal government's refusal
to secure our borders in the war on terror and to get illegal immigration under
control,'' said Mr. King, adding that he had spent most of his savings and much
of the last two years leafleting legislators, writing local newspaper columns
and organizing more than a dozen protests.

No one can say for sure how many illegal immigrants live and work in Georgia.
Estimates run from a quarter of a million to many hundreds of thousands more.
What is known is that they are prevalent in certain industries, like
agriculture, construction, poultry processing and carpet mills.

What surprised many of those on both sides of the issue was how silent the
state's business leaders were during the debate, even as national business
groups had spoken against Washington legislation focused on employers of illegal
workers.

Senator Rogers said this was partly a result of supporters of the bill reaching
out to those who employed illegal immigrants in Georgia and shaping the bill to
meet their objections. Even at the 11th hour, he said, changes were made so that
some of the enforcement provisions deemed most onerous by business owners would
not take effect for several years, giving them time to prepare.

Mr. King said he thought employers simply sensed the new public mood. ''They
could see the writing on the wall,'' he said.

Wishful thinking, Senator Zamarripa said. He said business owners had been quite
active behind the scenes getting those provisions of the bill softened to which
they objected and having the rest deferred to later years, giving them time to
push for superseding federal legislation.

''What you saw, I think, was a fairly typical business reaction, which was that
they would not let this all play out in public,'' Mr. Zamarripa said. ''Instead,
they turned it over to their lobbyists. A lot of stuff got pushed far into the
future. The strategy was to delay implementation while they transferred their
work to the national level.''

Without question, Mr. Rogers said, the bill changed through the session, and
especially in the final days before it was passed. An initial provision to put a
5 percent tax on foreign cash wire transfers by those without proper residency
documents was discarded, partly because some groups had complained, but also
because it would have been unwieldy to enforce, he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: State Senator Chip Rogers, a Republican who wrote the new law
and spearheaded its passage, said, ''The climate was certainly right.''
D. A. King, a prominent opponent of illegal immigrants, has spent much of his
savings on lobbying legislators and organizing protests.
 Student volunteers taught English recently to Hispanic immigrants in Athens,
Ga. They fear a new Georgia law will drive immigrants away. (Photographs by Erik
S. Lesser for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Insights of Passage

BYLINE: By RICH BEATTIE

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; AHEAD Immigrant Art Exhibitions; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 903 words


WITH Congress debating immigrant rights and marchers taking to the streets, it's
easy to forget a byproduct that can emerge from the challenge of uprooting and
relocating in a new country: self-expression in art.

Immigrant art is often overlooked. While the work of foreign artists and
Americans of foreign descent often sits proudly on public display, artistic
creations from immigrants can be a harder sell to museums and galleries. ''It's
tough for immigrant artists to get seen,'' said Tony Pfannenstiel, who for six
years ran a gallery in Portland, Ore., devoted exclusively to immigrant art.
''Galleries can be pretty highfalutin -- they may think it's too ethnic.''

But many feel that immigrant art makes a powerful statement and often has
artistic merit. ''It's not fine art or some postmodern movement that came out of
New York,'' said Doug Massey, a Princeton professor who displays his collection
of Mexican immigrant art from the mid- to late 20th century all over the
country. ''It's popular art, and while to some it's declasse, it depicts a
social phenomenon.''

The collection he has helped build over 16 years is on display at Princeton.
''Angels on the Border: Religious Paintings by Mexican Immigrants in the United
States'' features 59 retablos -- paintings on tin, representing a technique that
was influential in Mexican fine art. The retablos depict the human side of
migration, thanking the Virgin Mary for protection while fording the Rio Grande,
for example, or showing the difficulty of living far from home.

Some institutions, including the Queens Museum of Art in New York, have made a
concerted effort to display immigrant work. ''The future of art in New York City
will be driven by immigrants,'' Tom Finkelpearl, the museum's director, said.
''If you're in contemporary art and aren't looking at immigrant art, you're
missing the boat.'' The Queens museum, certain of not missing out, has two
immigrant art shows: ''Jeff Chien-Hsing Liao: Habitat 7'' and ''Open Routines:
Recent Projects by Pedro Lasch.'' The works by Mr. Liao, who was born in Taiwan,
are photographs focusing on people along the No. 7 subway line who uphold their
ethnic traditions while pursuing the American dream. The Mexican-born Mr. Lasch,
a multimedia artist, also looks at recent immigrants in his pieces, which
include video, audio, paintings and installations, raising the concerns of
Latino newcomers and examining the relationship of Mexico and the United States.

Of course, some immigrants are hardly new to American soil. And while their
homelands may inspire their work, the art doesn't necessarily carry a political
or social message. The San Jose Museum of Art in California is showing the work
of the Mexican-born painter Gustavo Ramos Rivera, who has lived in San Francisco
since 1969. ''Gustavo Ramos Rivera Paintings: Eternidades Del Instante''
displays his abstract works that were inspired by the landscapes and use the
bright color palettes of Mexico and San Francisco.

Other immigrant artists reflect more on their new home. Glexis Novoa, best known
for his drawings and installations in graphite on marble, left Cuba in 1995,
citing artistic censorship. ''Glexis Novoa, Visionary Artist,'' on view at the
University of Miami, depicts cityscapes, some of which conjure up his adopted
city of Miami.

While these immigrant artists may have already found their voice, others are
still searching. Assisting them is Empowered Women International, an
organization based in Virginia that helps immigrants develop their artistic
skills while teaching them the business side of art. The organization is the
brainchild of Marga Fripp, a broadcast journalist who was barred from working in
Romania, her home country.

The group displays student work about once a month. The next show, ''Women
Without Borders,'' will be in Alexandria, Va., and will feature painting and
sculpture as well as photography by women from Sudan, Pakistan, Belize and
Ethiopia.

Although she is not an artist herself, Ms. Fripp started the organization in
2002 because she saw art as the glue holding people of all ethnicities together.
Since then, she has helped hundreds of immigrant artists. ''Art transcends
socioeconomic borders,'' she said. ''It's the common denominator for many people
who come to America.''

DETAILS

QUEENS -- Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows Corona Park.

What: ''Jeff Chien-Hsing Liao: Habitat 7'' and ''Open Routines: Recent Projects
by Pedro Lasch,'' 718-592-9700; www.queensmuseum.org.
When: Through July 9 for Mr. Lasch; through Aug. 20 for Mr. Liao.

PRINCETON, N.J. -- Aaron Burr Hall, Princeton University.

What: ''Angels on the Border: Religious Paintings by Mexican Immigrants in the
United States,'' 609-258-3612; http://calendar.princeton.edu.

When: Through June 4.

CORAL GABLES, FLA. -- Lowe Art Museum, University of Miami, 1301 Stanford Drive.

What: ''Glexis Novoa, Visionary Artist,'' 305-284-3535; www.lowemuseum.org.

When: Through June 4.

SAN JOSE, CALIF. -- San Jose Museum of Art, 110 South Market Street.

What: ''Gustavo Ramos Rivera Paintings: Eternidades Del Instante,''
408-294-2787; www.sjmusart.org.

When: Through Sept. 10.

ALEXANDRIA, VA. -- The Art League's Duke Street Annex, 1 Duke Street.

What: ''Women Without Borders,'' 703-683-1780; www.theartleague.org. Organized
by Empowered Women International, 703-778-6310; www.ewint.org.

When: June 15, 6 to 9 p.m.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: COLLECTOR -- Doug Massey has amassed dozens of religious
paintings done on tin by Mexican immigrants. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

100 Years in the Back Door, Out the Front

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1190 words


THE Texas cotton lobbyist tried to reassure Congress that the tens of thousands
of Mexicans who labored in the fields of the Southwest were not a threat to
national security. There ''never was a more docile animal in the world than the
Mexican,'' he told the Senate committee.

Then he offered a way around the political problem the congressmen faced in
extending the program that had let the workers in.

''If you gentlemen have any objections to admitting the Mexicans by law,'' he
said, ''take the river guard away and let us alone, and we will get them all
right.''

They did -- and that was in 1920. Almost a century later, the debate over
illegal immigration from Mexico often makes it sound like a recent development
that breaks with the tradition of legal passage to America.

Quite the contrary, say immigration scholars like Aristide R. Zolberg, who
relates the anecdote about the Texas cotton grower in his new book, ''A Nation
by Design: Immigration Policy in the Fashioning of America.'' A pattern of
deliberately leaving the country's ''back door'' open to Mexican workers, then
moving to expel them and their families years later, has been a recurrent
feature of immigration policy since the 1890's.

''Things are not the same today, but the basic dynamics do not change,'' said
Mr. Zolberg, a professor of political science at the New School. ''Wanting
immigrants because they're a good source of cheap labor and human capital on the
one hand, and then posing the identity question: But will they become Americans?
Where is the boundary of American identity going to be?''

Nearly every immigrant group has been caught at that crossroads for a time,
wanted for work but unwelcome as citizens, especially when the economy slumps.
But Mexicans have been summoned and sent back in cycles for four generations,
repeatedly losing the ground they had gained.

During the Depression, as many as a million Mexicans, and even
Mexican-Americans, were ousted, along with their American-born children, to
spare relief costs or discourage efforts to unionize. They were welcome again
during World War II and cast as heroic ''braceros.'' But in the 1950's, Mexicans
were re-branded as dangerous, welfare-seeking ''wetbacks.''

In 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent Gen. Joseph Swing to ''secure the
border'' with farm raids and summary deportations that drove out at least a
million people. At the same time, growers were assured of a new supply of
temporary workers through the ''braceros'' program, which soon doubled to
400,000 a year.

The pattern grew during the years between the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act and the
quotas of 1929, as rising legal barriers drastically narrowed the nation's front
door. The goal was to preserve the country's ''Nordic character'' against
Italians and Eastern European Jews who had begun arriving in large numbers.

Yet Congress refused to close the back entrance to a growing flow of Mexicans,
even though by the lawmakers' own racial standards, Mexicans were even more
objectionable than the ''degraded races'' of Asians and Southern Europeans whom
they were increasingly replacing in fields, factories and railroad work.

A convenient way was found to reconcile the contradiction, said Camille
Guerin-Gonzales, a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin and the
author of ''Mexican Workers and American Dreams.'' No quotas were necessary to
keep Mexicans out because they were not going to stay. ''Not wanting to
'mongrelize the race,' but needing cheap labor, Americans constructed Mexicans
as 'birds of passage,' '' she said, using the phrase coined to describe Italian
immigrants. ''The proximity of the border made that even more believable.''

The cotton pickers cited by the Texas lobbyist had arrived by way of a program
intended to address World War I labor shortages. But as commercial agriculture
created ''factories in the field,'' undocumented entry became the norm. Growers
pointed out that no willing field hand could afford the ''head tax'' that went
with legal entry. And employers regularly cited informal entry as a feature that
made Mexicans more desirable than cheap foreign laborers like Filipinos, because
they were easier to deport. As one rancher quoted in Mr. Zolberg's book remarked
to a Mexican hand: ''When we want you, we'll call you; when we don't -- git.''

The full, brutal weight of that formula hit in the Depression. Roundups of
Mexican families in public places, summary deportations -- and well-publicized
threats of more to come -- sent panic through Mexican-American communities in
1931. The tactic was called ''scare-heading'' by its architect, Charles P.
Visel, the director of the Los Angeles Citizens Committee on the Coordination of
Unemployment Relief. It worked. Even many legal immigrants were panicked into
selling their property cheap and leaving ''voluntarily.''

It was a time when crops went unharvested for lack of buyers and white families
like those in ''The Grapes of Wrath'' poured West, desperate for work. ''They
gave you a choice: starve or go back to Mexico,'' a resident of Indiana Harbor,
Ind., recalled later, as Roger Daniels relates in his book ''Guarding the Golden
Door.'' A Santa Barbara woman said she would never forget seeing trains
organized by the railroad transporting families to the border in boxcars. The
same rail lines had long been maintained by Mexicans who had settled not only in
the Southwest, but in Indiana, Illinois and eastward.

''I have left the best of my life and strength here, sprinkling with the sweat
of my brow the fields and factories of these gringos, who only know how to make
one sweat and don't even pay attention to one when they see one is old,'' said
one worker, Juan Berzunzolo, interviewed in California in the 1920's by a
Mexican anthropologist and quoted by Devra Weber in ''Dark Sweat, White Gold:
California Farm Workers, Cotton and the New Deal.''

At the other side of the border, Ms. Guerin-Gonzales said, an 11-year-old
American-born girl who had been ''repatriated'' from California told an
interviewer in the 1930's, ''I would be in the fifth grade there, but here, no,
because I didn't know how to read and write Spanish.'' A boy recounted how a
Mexican policeman upbraided him for speaking English. But by 1943, with the
economy ascendant and employers crying of wartime labor shortages, the cycle
began anew.

Today, the nature of the deal can no longer be disguised, said Marcelo M.
Suarez-Orozco, co-director of Immigration Studies at New York University. ''It's
a bad-faith pact,'' he said. ''We can't have it both ways -- an economy that's
addicted to immigrant labor, but that's not ready to pay the cost.''

And Mr. Zolberg said the old resort to mass expulsion is less likely, since the
naturalization of millions of Latinos, including those from the 1986 amnesty,
changed the rules of the game. ''Mexicans, and Latinos generally are more in the
situation today that Italians and Jews were in the 20's and 30's,'' he said.
''They began to have some electoral clout, because there were more people of
that national origin who could stand up.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1919 -- Early last century, Texans brought in tens of thousands
of Mexicans to pick its cotton each year. Then it invited them to leave. (Photo
by Bettmann/Corbis)
1939 -- Pecan workers lined up for jobs in San Antonio. When the Depression gave
way to war, the workers were again welcome. (Photo by Russell Lee/Corbis)
1943 -- Rosie was a riveter -- and so was Rosalita, in this aircraft factory and
similar industrial plants during World War II. (Photo by Charles E.
Steinheimer/Time Life Pictures -- Getty Images)
 1948 -- After each world war, and during the Depression, Texans no longer
looked the other way as Mexicans crossed the border illegally. (Photo by Harry
Pennington/Keystone Features -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Florida: Immigration Hearing Ordered

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 129 words


Orlando Bosquette, who escaped from prison in 1985 and spent 10 years on the run
after being wrongly convicted of rape, was ordered to appear before an
immigration judge on charges that could lead to his deportation. This week, a
judge in the Florida Keys said DNA tests showed that Mr. Bosquette, 51, who came
to the United States from Cuba in 1980, was innocent of a 1982 rape. But before
he could be released from state custody, Mr. Bosquette was seized by immigration
authorities who said he could be deported for admitting to a crime of ''moral
turpitude'' by pleading guilty to loitering, burglary and possession of burglary
tools. Mr. Bosquette has said that he entered those guilty pleas under aliases
to protect his identity while he was a fugitive.   JIM DWYER (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 12, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

After 9/11, Arab-Americans Fear Police Acts, Study Finds

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1072 words


In the aftermath of Sept. 11, Arab-Americans have a greater fear of racial
profiling and immigration enforcement than of falling victim to hate crimes,
according to a national study financed by the Justice Department.

The study also concluded that local police officers and federal agents were
straining under the pressure to fight terrorism, and that new federal policies
in this effort were poorly defined and inconsistently applied.

The two-year study, released today by the Vera Institute of Justice, explored
the changed relationship between Arab-Americans and law enforcement in the years
since the 2001 terrorist attacks. The Vera Institute is a nonprofit policy
research center based in New York.

About 100 Arab-Americans and 111 law enforcement personnel, both F.B.I. agents
and police officers, participated in the study, which was conducted from 2003 to
2005. Some respondents were interviewed privately and others took part in focus
groups in cities around the nation, which were not identified in order to
protect the identities of the respondents.

Both Arab-American community leaders and law enforcement officials interviewed
in the study said that cooperation between both groups had suffered from a lack
of trust.

''It underscores the importance of community policing, of engaging the Arab and
Muslim community in a constructive way and bringing them in to be partners,''
said Farhana Khera, the executive director of Muslim Advocates, a national
nonprofit organization of lawyers.

While Muslims represent a spectrum of ethnic and national backgrounds, the study
focused on Arab-Americans in order to understand the experience of one group
more deeply, said Nicole Henderson, the lead author of the report. An estimated
two-thirds of Arab-Americans are Christian.

Arab-Americans reported an increasing sense of victimization, suspicion of
government and law enforcement, and concerns about protecting their civil
liberties, according to the study, which was paid for by the National Institute
of Justice, a research agency of the Justice Department.

A fear of surveillance ranked high among their concerns. During one focus group,
a woman told the story of an encyclopedia salesman who came to her door and
asked to use the bathroom. She worried that he might have been an agent trying
to plant a listening device in her home.

While hate crimes against Arab-Americans spiked after Sept. 11, they have
decreased in the years since, according to both law enforcement and
Arab-American respondents.

A series of post-9/11 policies have sown the deepest fear among Arab-Americans,
including unease about the USA Patriot Act, voluntary interviews of thousands of
Arab-Americans by federal agents, and an initiative known as Special
Registration, in which more than 80,000 immigrant men were fingerprinted,
photographed and questioned by authorities.

These new measures threatened to harm decades of work by police departments to
build trust in their communities, especially among immigrants, the study
concluded. After 9/11, federal agents increasingly turned to the police for help
with gathering intelligence and enforcing immigration laws, Ms. Henderson said.

F.B.I. agents were also given expanded powers to arrest people for immigration
violations in connection with terrorism cases.

The study concluded that there was confusion among both F.B.I. agents and the
local police about their roles in enforcing immigration, and that their
resources had been stretched thin by counterterrorism initiatives.

John Miller, an assistant director for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said
the report confirmed many of the realities facing the bureau.

''We have finite resources and tremendous responsibilities,'' Mr. Miller said.
''When you take 40 percent of your resources and turn them towards national
security issues in the wake of Sept. 11 because of a significant and
demonstrable threat, you're going to see a strain on resources.''

The degree to which police officers have enforced immigration laws varied,
according to the study: Some departments formally deputized officers to arrest
people for immigration violations, while other departments left this to the
discretion of officers.

Both Arab-Americans and law enforcement personnel expressed dismay about the
reporting of false information in the form of anonymous tips. F.B.I. agents said
they had responded to calls stemming from petty disputes, business competition
and dating rivalries, according to the study.

''It reminds me of Syria,'' an Arab-American was quoted as saying in the study.
''If someone wants to get you, they will call the police.''

Both Arab-Americans and law enforcement respondents acknowledged that the
relationship between them was necessary, but could be improved.

Mr. Miller said the process would take time.

''We didn't bring this on the community -- the terrorists did,'' he said. ''The
community is paying for that. We are paying for that as law enforcement because
when we're doing our investigations, it seems like we're singling out a group or
a religion and the fact is, we're not. We have to go where the leads take us.''

In the weeks after Sept. 11, community outreach by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department helped engender trust among Muslims, said Sheriff Lee Baca.
The department received reports that Pakistani immigrants working at 7-Eleven
stores had been harassed. In response, officers visited more than 100 stores in
Los Angeles and Orange Counties, he said.

''Our premise here in Los Angeles is that unless we enlist Muslim-American
partnerships in the homeland security mission, we are leaving out our greatest
resource for preventing terrorist attacks,'' Sheriff Baca said.

The Vera Institute study concluded that Arab-Americans tended to have a closer
relationship with the local police than with federal agents.

James Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute in Washington, said
increased surveillance by the F.B.I. had damaged the image many Arab-Americans
had of the bureau.

''I think there's more of an arm's length attitude,'' Mr. Zogby said. ''The
community still wants very much to cooperate because we know it is important and
good to do so, but the cooperation is a one-way street.

''It's, 'Tell us everything you know,' which in most cases is nothing,'' he
said. ''What we want is more of relationship, a partnership, and not to be
viewed as just sources.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Zogby, president of the Arab American Institute,
testifying at a USA Patriot Act hearing. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congress Passes Major Security Measures

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14


Congress is scrambling to pass long-delayed domestic and border security bills,
as Republicans and the Democrats try to control the issues ahead of the midterm
elections -- and to blame each other for blocking progress.

The most far-reaching action on Thursday was in the Senate, which voted, 98 to
0, to approve a six-year port security package costing more than $5 billion that
includes deadlines to install radiation detectors at the largest ports and
encourages shippers and ports worldwide to improve guarding containers against
stowaway weapons.

Earlier, the House approved, 283 to 138, a bill that calls for a two-layer fence
along 700 miles of the border with Mexico, a measure advertised as an
immigration enforcement and antiterror initiative.

Negotiations were under way on measures to tighten security at chemical plants
and revamp the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

The Senate port bill included language for mass transit and rail security
programs, including random passenger and baggage screening at certain stations
and fire-safety improvements for Amtrak tunnels in the Northeast corridor.

With just two weeks before Congress plans to begin its election recess, the
debate has been intensely partisan. Democrats have tried to force Republicans to
consider expansions that could add billions of dollars in costs in the port
security bill by adopting, for example, all the outstanding recommendations of
the Sept. 11 Commission.

''Let's see if they vote against this,'' Senator Henry Reid, Democrat of Nevada,
the minority leader, said this week.

Republicans have generally succeeded in blocking such last-minute amendments,
after condemning them as not-so-subtle efforts to kill or delay the bills.

''This is politics at its very worst,'' Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South
Carolina, said on the floor Thursday. ''If Democrats spend half as much time
fighting terrorists as they do this administration, America would win this war a
lot faster.''

Democrats say it is the Republicans who are to blame for the delay.

''It is not about us,'' Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House
minority leader, said. ''It is about the president of the United States and this
Republican Congress, and is our country as safe as it could be. Republicans are
in charge of everything.''

The Senate port bill, which the Bush administration supports and which is
similar to a measure that the House has passed, would require installing
radiation detection equipment by the end of 2007 at 22 ports that receive 98
percent of the incoming cargo, a goal that the Homeland Security Department has
set.

It also writes into law two programs to give accelerated clearance to cargo from
ports that pre-screen containers for weapons or containers shipped on behalf of
companies that have agreed to assure their security from the factory until they
being loaded onto ships.

The bill would authorize $5.5 billion for port security over six years,
including adding 1,000 customs and border officers and $400 million in port
security grants. It would also authorize $1.2 billion for rail security and $2.4
billion in grants for security on mass transit.

The bill would extend some port user fees to pay some of the costs, but it
remains unclear whether Congress will appropriate enough money to finance the
rest or whether the fees will be set aside for security.

The fence proposal represents a last-minute push by Republicans for at least
part of their border security agenda. A similar requirement was included in
December in broader immigration measures in the House. That bill stalled after a
dispute with the Senate over a temporary-worker program to let some illegal
immigrants remain here.

House Republicans also promised on Thursday to increase the number of Border
Patrol agents, increase prosecutions of smugglers of immigrants and criminalize
the building of tunnels under the border.

More than 60 Democrats joined with Republican House members to vote for the
fence bill. Other Democrats in the House and Senate ridiculed it, saying that
the fence alone would not solve the border problem and that the bill did not
provide the more that $2 billion that it would cost to build.

Republican leaders are hoping to insert language into the larger budget bill for
domestic security that is in a conference committee to address chemical plant
security, FEMA restructuring and, perhaps, additional provisions.

The rules on chemical plants have support of the administration as well as
Democrats and Republicans in Congress. The negotiations are trying to compromise
on how demanding they should be.

A proposal backed by Republicans and opposed by environmentalists would let the
owners of chemical plants decide what safety measures to adopt. It would
prohibit the federal government from mandating that they consider using
inherently safer chemicals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 30, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Passes Bill on Building Border Fence

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29


The Senate on Friday approved the building of 700 miles of fence along the
nation's southwestern border, fulfilling a demand by conservative Republicans to
take steps to slow the flow of illegal immigrants before exploring broader
changes to immigration law.

The Senate vote, 80 to 19, came as lawmakers finished a batch of legislation
before heading home to campaign. It sent the fence measure to President Bush,
who has promised to sign it despite his earlier push for a more comprehensive
approach that could lead to citizenship for some who are in the country
illegally.

House Republicans, fearing a voter backlash, had opposed any approach that
smacked of amnesty and chose instead to focus on border security in advance of
the elections, passing the fence bill earlier this month. With time running out,
the Senate acquiesced despite its bipartisan passage of a broader bill in May.

Congress also passed a separate $34.8 billion homeland security spending bill
that contained an estimated $21.3 billion for border security, including $1.2
billion for the fence and associated barriers and surveillance systems.

''This is something the American people have been wanting us to do for a long
time,'' said Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, whose state would be the
site of substantial fence construction.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff praised the money for border
security. He said it would ''enable the department to make substantial progress
toward preventing terrorists and others from exploiting our borders and provides
flexibility for smart deployment of physical infrastructure that needs to be
built along the southwest border.''

Some Democrats ridiculed the fence idea and said a broader approach was the only
way to halt the influx. ''You don't have to be a law enforcement or engineering
expert to know that a 700-mile fence on a 2,000-mile border makes no sense,''
said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat in the
Senate. Nevertheless, more than 20 Democrats moved behind the measure.

The fence bill and homeland spending were among security-related measures the
Republican leadership was pushing through in the closing hours to bolster their
security credentials.

On a 100-to-0 vote, the Senate earlier sent a $447.6 billion bill for the
Defense Department to the president. It included $70 billion for operations in
Iraq and Afghanistan, a sum that will bring the total spent on those wars and
other military antiterrorism operations to more than $500 billion.

Lawmakers also sped through a port security bill that would institute new
safeguards at the nation's 361 seaports, while a Pentagon policy measure stalled
in a Senate dispute.

''Passage of this port security bill is a major leap ahead in our efforts to
strengthen our national security,'' said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of
Maine and chairwoman of the Senate homeland security panel.

At the urging of conservative groups and the National Football League, among
other interests, the port security measure carried legislation cracking down on
Internet gambling by prohibiting credit card companies and other financial
institutions from processing the exchange of money between bettors and Web
sites. The prohibition, which exempts some horse-racing operations, has
previously passed the House and Senate at different times but has never cleared
Congress.

''Although we can't monitor every online gambler or regulate offshore gambling,
we can police the financial institutions that disregard our laws,'' said Senator
Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, who lobbied to add the crackdown
to the port bill.

Because Congress failed to finish nine other required spending bills before the
Sept. 30 deadline, the Pentagon measure also contained a provision to maintain
spending for other federal agencies through Nov. 17 to give lawmakers time to
finish the bills in a post-election session.

In an end-of-session appeal to conservatives, Senate Republicans also brought up
a measure that could lead to criminal charges against people who take under-age
girls across state lines for abortions, but they were unable to get enough votes
to overcome procedural obstacles, and the bill stalled.

The atmosphere in the Capitol was somewhat tense as lawmakers were set to head
back to their districts for what is looming as a difficult election. And the
sudden resignation of Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida, after
the disclosure of sexually suggestive e-mail messages he reportedly sent to
teenage pages, added to the turmoil.

The fence legislation was one of the chief elements to survive the broader
comprehensive bill that President Bush and a Senate coalition had hoped would
tighten border security, grant legal status to most illegal immigrants and
create a vast guest worker program to supply the nation's industries.

Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, said the vote would build
credibility with conservative voters who have been skeptical of the government's
commitment to border security.

''They have been under the impression that Congress has been a lot about
conversations about securing the border and not about action,'' said Mr.
Chambliss, who opposes the legalization of illegal immigrants and voted against
the Senate immigration bill. ''This is real action.''

But Republicans and Democrats alike acknowledged they were leaving the country's
immigration problems largely unresolved. The border security measures passed do
not address the 11 million people living here illegally, the call for a guest
worker program by businesses or the need for a verification program that would
ensure that companies do not hire illegal workers.

And while Congress wants 700 miles of fencing, it was appropriating only enough
money to complete about 370 miles of it, Congressional aides acknowledged,
leaving it unclear as to whether the entire structure will be built. Dana
Perino, deputy White House press secretary, said Friday that Mr. Bush intended
to keep pressing Congress for a broader fix. She said the White House was
hopeful that Congress would return to the issue after the elections.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Woven Into America

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 45 words



To the Editor:

Question for all those geniuses on Capitol Hill discussing a five-year waiver
for illegal immigrants:

If they're illegal and undocumented, how will you know if they've been here five
years or five minutes?

David Strickland
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., April 4, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Woven Into America

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 158 words



To the Editor:

In ''The Amnesty Trap'' (editorial, April 5), you talked about immigration as if
our problem was immigration; it isn't.

This whole issue isn't about immigration at all (we are a nation built by
immigrants); it's about enforcing the law.

Faced with a seemingly large problem, that of about 12 million illegal
immigrants in America, Congress is seeking a way to reward them for illegally
entering the country rather than removing them from America.

No, all 12 million would never be successfully deported to their native
countries, because law enforcement is always imperfect. But that doesn't mean we
shouldn't try to enforce our laws.

You ended your editorial by saying, ''We need to get it right this time, once
and for all.''

I agree, although not in the way you meant it.

We claim to be a nation of laws, and it's time that we started actively
enforcing our laws on illegal immigration.

David Moorshead

Chicago, April 5, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant Success Wants Others to Have a Chance

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 886 words


A SYNONYM for the immigrant success story that he is, Guillermo Linares -- who
grew up dirt poor in a dirt-floored hut in the Dominican Republic, came to New
York City at age 15 knowing not a word of English, drove a taxi to pay for a
college education that culminated with a doctorate, and believes he is the first
Dominican to hold public office in the United States -- is having a touchy time
keeping his cool as the immigration battle heats up on Capitol Hill.

More than 11 million life stories -- Mr. Linares estimates that there are at
least 500,000 illegal immigrants in New York City alone -- are at stake, and
some of them remind him of his own.

Yes, he takes it personally that politicians like Representative Peter King, a
Republican from Long Island, have proposed a bill in the House that would make
it a felony for immigrants to be in this country illegally. No documentation,
automatic deportation. The bill also endorses a barrier wall along the Mexican
border and seeks to criminalize some activities assisting illegal immigrants.
''I fail to see the connection between immigrant workers who are looking to
survive and help their families and the security threats that this country
has,'' he says. ''When I see a debate like this that tends to be driven more by
political expediency than by real circumstances, I feel we are not being
realistic. We are having a Band-Aid approach that solves nothing.''

Because Mr. Linares serves as the commissioner of the Mayor's Office of
Immigrant Affairs, where his mission is to be a bridge between immigrants and
city government and services regardless of his clients' immigration status, the
pending legislation strikes him as un-American. Not to mention that Immigration
History Week is right around the corner, running from April 17 to 23. He's in
charge, and the festivities begin with a reception at Gracie Mansion. Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg is, he says, supportive of the city's immigrants: they are
43 percent of its work force.

''I agree with the mayor that we need to find a way of controlling our borders,
but I also believe the mayor understands and values the place of immigrants in
our city and favors a sensible approach that allows those who work hard and play
by the rules, and have roots here, well, we owe them the opportunity to work to
become legal citizens,'' he says, his posture erect and syntax meandering as he
presides at a mini-conference table in his office, at 100 Gold Street. ''It's
consistent with the tradition of this country.''

A GARISHLY sequined carnival mask -- it depicts a congenial Dominican devil and
was worn (not by him) in the Carnaval del Boulevard, a parade held in Washington
Heights, last July -- brightens the windowsill, and Dominican art decorates the
walls alongside photographs of career highlights: there he is being appointed
chairman of the White House Initiative for Educational Excellence for Hispanic
Americans by Bill Clinton in 1999; there he is with Mayor Bloomberg, a
Republican who endorsed his unsuccessful State Senate bid in the 2002 Democratic
primary, and with the fashion designer Oscar de la Renta, ''by far the greatest
ambassador we Dominicans have.''

Well, that's not counting Pedro Martinez, whose arrival on the Mets has
complicated Mr. Linares's territorial affiliation with the Yankees. (He grew up
in East Tremont and lived in Washington Heights before buying a house in Marble
Hill in 1994 with his wife, Evelyn, who is the principal of Public School 210 in
Washington Heights.)

Mr. Linares, 55, with the silver moustache and undulating hairline of an
old-time matinee idol and a halting way of genteelly hammering home his point,
is a former teacher, city councilman and lifelong Democrat who was appointed to
his position by Mr. Bloomberg in 2004. He is a dapper dresser and happily
reveals that Mr. de la Renta, besides supporting a foundation that Mr. Linares
established to promote scholarship among Dominican youth, designed his favorite
sport jacket, a beige number that handles anything from jeans to finery. He gets
around: Jackson Heights, Flushing, Sunset Park, Washington Heights, East Harlem,
and Staten Island -- where Mexicans are the second-largest immigrant group.
''I'm on the side of facilitating legalization of those who are here working,
and we've also got to take a closer look at our labor laws to make sure that
those who do come here are not exploited.''

Mr. Linares, the oldest of nine children, grew up in Cabrera, where school ended
in the eighth grade. His father was a tailor and his mother a seamstress who
spurred the family's move to New York; his parents arrived on tourist visas in
the 60's, overstayed them, and later applied for green cards. He found a
$15-a-week job in a bodega and struggled to finish high school: ''My adviser
said I was not college material.''

He became an American citizen during his sophomore year at City College, where
he received B.A. and M.S. degrees and took a teaching job. He served on the
local school board, then was elected to the City Council in 1991, a job he loved
and left only because of term limits. ''I came into office as the first Latino
elected to city government, but once in, I found myself representing not just
District 10, but immigrants throughout the city.'' He is doing it again.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Guillermo Linares

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate's Failure to Agree on Immigration Plan Angers Workers and Employers Alike

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Abby Goodnough reported from
Immokalee, Fla., for this article, and Jennifer Steinhauer from New York. Terry
Aguayo contributed reporting from Immokalee, Brenda Goodman from Georgia and
Chris Maag from Ohio.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1077 words


Until it collapsed on Friday, a compromise immigration plan in the Senate
offered Rigoberto Morales a chance to reach his dream of becoming an American
citizen.

Mr. Morales had worked eight years in the sun-baked fields of Immokalee, Fla.,
in the southern part of the state, picking tomatoes, evading the authorities,
and sending most of his earnings to his mother and daughter in Mexico. The
Senate plan would have allowed Mr. Morales, 25, to apply for permanent residency
because he has lived here more than five years.

But as tantalizing as the possibility was, Mr. Morales said he never really
believed Congress would solve his plight.

''It's a very bad thing because we're working very hard here and there's no
support from the government,'' he said, standing outside a dreary shack where he
lives with his wife and three other tomato pickers, all illegal immigrants from
Mexico. ''We're only working. We're not committing a sin.''

Many of the nation's approximately 11 million illegal immigrants -- as well as
their employers -- have long sought some of the major provisions in the Senate
proposal, which failed amid partisan rancor.

In interviews, employers and illegal workers said the bill would have offered
significant improvement, and several said the failure of the compromise was a
lost opportunity.

''This is disappointing,'' said Edward Overdevest, president of Overdevest
Nurseries in Bridgeton, N.J. ''I think it is a setback for reason, it is a
setback for common sense.''

Mr. Overdevest said the Senate had failed to solve a problem that has been
festering for years.

Mr. Overdevest and other employers who rely on an existing guest worker program
that is smaller than what was proposed had hoped that the Senate would address
the reams of red tape they say have plagued the program.

Antonia Fuentes, a Mexican who has picked tomatoes in Immokalee for two years,
said legal status, even as a guest worker, would have allowed her to breathe
easier even though life would have remained hard. ''We live here in fear,'' said
Ms. Fuentes, 18. ''We fear Immigration will come, and many people just don't go
out.''

Yet she and others were wary of a provision in the Senate plan that would have
forced illegal immigrants who have been here from two to five years to return
home and then apply for temporary work in the United States. A million
immigrants who have been here illegally for less than two years would have had
to leave with little promise of returning.

Paulino Pineda, a community college custodian in Perrysburg, Ohio, outside
Toledo, said any bill that did not provide amnesty to all illegal immigrants was
flawed.

''It's not a democratic solution,'' said Mr. Pineda, 65, who moved to the United
States from the Dominican Republic in 1992 and sends money home to his 11
children. ''If people come here, work very hard, do everything they're told to
do, and then when they're not needed anymore they're told to take your things
and go back, they might as well be slaves.''

According to the Department of Labor, the United States economy will add about
five million jobs in businesses like retail, food service and landscaping over
the next decade, with not enough American workers to meet the need.

Many employers -- especially in industries that rely on large numbers of
unskilled laborers -- had embraced the idea of a guest-worker program. They said
it would stabilize the workforce, reduce the high cost of turnover and perhaps
increase the number of workers available.

But others said an expanded guest-worker program would bring higher costs and
more paperwork, and were cheered by the Senate bill's defeat.

''Yay!'' said Jay Taylor, president of Taylor & Fulton, a tomato grower in
Florida, Maryland and Virginia, who said that the bill was too hastily drafted
and that Congress had not grasped the complexity of the issue. Mr. Taylor said
guest workers should be able to come and go as they pleased, with freedom to
earn wages in this country but no promise of citizenship or benefits.

''It was a dinner cooked in a pressure cooker,'' said Mr. Taylor, who employs
nearly 1,000 immigrants. ''What we need is something that comes out of a crock
pot. We need something that is well thought out, well planned and well executed,
and in the atmosphere we are in today on this subject, we're not going to get
that kind of situation.''

Judith Ingalls, a vice president at Fortune Contract Inc., a carpet maker in
Dalton, Ga., did not find many of the provisions in the Senate bill practical,
particularly those that would have required longtime immigrants to learn English
and to pay fines.

''It is crazy to listen to this whole debate when you live here and see what is
happening,'' Ms. Ingalls said. ''Nothing I have heard out of Washington works.''

Many employers, too, oppose any provision that would penalize them for hiring
illegal workers, knowingly or not. Some expressed concern about the provision
that would have granted citizenship to immigrants who had been in the United
States for at least five years, saying it might have encouraged them to quit or
be less productive.

''The illegals are probably better workers than the legal ones,'' said Mike
Gonya, who farms 2,800 acres of wheat and vegetables near Fremont, Ohio. ''The
legal ones know the system. They know legal recourse. The illegal ones will bust
their butts.''

Some employers, especially in agriculture, say keeping full operations in the
United States will not be viable without an overhaul of the system.

Jack Vessey, who runs a garlic-production company in El Centro, Calif., said
stricter border enforcement and competition with other agriculture businesses
had lengthened his harvest season by months and left him shorthanded.

''We don't have the people to work,'' Mr. Vessey said.

Agricultural businesses, with their mostly migrant workforce, are the proverbial
canaries in the coal mine of immigration. With some local governments searching
for ways to stem illegal immigration, other businesses fear that time is running
out.

''Disruptions in agriculture could cause disruptions in our own workforce,''
said John Gay, vice president for government affairs at the National Restaurant
Association, which said it did not have enough workers to deal with the
industry's projected growth over the next few years. ''We have been muddling
through with this don't-ask-don't-tell policy we've had, but it's not
sustainable.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE EMPLOYER -- Mike Gonya, a farmer in Ohio, said amnesty
would only make immigrants less productive. (Photo by Amy E. Voight for The New
York Times)
IMMIGRANT WORK FORCE -- Luis Palacios, Margarita Espinosa and Gloria Rodriguez
work at a poultry processing plant in Gainesville, Ga. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser
for The New York Times)
SEEKING RESPECT -- Paulino Pineda, 65, a janitor in Perrysburg, Ohio, said
illegal workers ''might as well be slaves'' if they did not receive amnesty.
(Photo by J. D. Pooley for The New York Times)
 FLORIDA MIGRANTS -- Celestino Gonzalez Montezuma lives at a camp for
agriculture workers in the tomato-farming region of Immokalee, Fla. (Photo by
Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Border-Tightening Congressman Has Immigrants in His Own Backyard

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1159 words

DATELINE: SEAFORD, N.Y.


A three-man crew of immigrant laborers had just finished the lawn work at the
yellow house: grass trimmed, flower beds neatened, sidewalk edged and swept.

The workers said they did not know the homeowner personally, but the one driving
the landscaping truck, Elmer Martinez, 34, said that he must be someone
important because of the brass plaque on the front door.

''Congressman Peter T. King,'' the plaque reads, ''3rd District, New York.''

It is the modest home in Seaford of Representative King, a co-sponsor of
legislation that would make felons of millions of illegal immigrants, tighten
security and support the building of a wall along parts of the Mexican border.
The bill, called the 2005 Border Protection, Anti-Terrorism and Illegal
Immigration Control Act, has been passed by the House but not by the Senate.

Pushing a mower onto a nearby lawn, Mr. Martinez, who is from El Salvador, said
he disagreed with such measures.

''I think if people come here and work hard, let them stay here,'' he said. Mr.
Martinez has a green card and pays taxes on the $150 a day that he earns, he
said. He and his wife, who is from Puerto Rico, have two sons, ages 3 and 5, who
are American citizens.

''I came here because I can make better money than in my country,'' he said.
''There, I make $5 for working a whole day.''

Another worker in the crew, Alfredo Garcia, 27, said that he, too, had emigrated
from El Salvador to have a chance to make more money. Mr. Garcia said he had
paid a guide to smuggle him into the United States through a combination of cars
and trucks. He later obtained a work permit and legal residency status, he said.

''I paid a lot of money to come here, and I've worked hard in this country,''
Mr. Garcia said.

He gestured around the neighborhood, a white enclave on the South Shore of Long
Island where one can seldom walk a block or two without seeing Spanish-speaking
work crews. On a recent Friday morning, a half-dozen crews of Hispanic workers
were tending homes within several blocks of Mr. King's house.

Around the corner, a half-dozen workers from Ecuador and Honduras were fitting
heavy stone onto a house facade. Nearby, two Guatemalan immigrants were nailing
in roofing shingles, and another block down, a trio of Salvadoran immigrants,
who said they had each paid several thousand dollars to be smuggled into the
United States, were installing a brick driveway.

When Mr. King's children, who are now adults, were young a few decades ago, that
type of work was done by white American citizens, usually first- or
second-generation descendants of the Irish, Italian and German immigrants who
still populate Mr. King's district, which sprawls across suburban neighborhoods
of single-family homes in Nassau County and western Suffolk.

But today, Mr. Garcia said, ''You'll never see a white guy cutting a lawn around
here; Spanish people do all the work in this area.''

The third man working for Mr. King's landscaper said he spoke no English and
declined to be interviewed.

Their employer, Steven Sander, has long been a neighbor of Mr. King's, grew up
with his children and has been cutting his lawn for years.

Mr. King does not make it his business to investigate the legal status of each
landscaping employee cutting his lawn, Mr. Sander said, but rather trusts that
Mr. Sander is employing legal immigrants. He said that his workers were all
legal and that he demanded they have tax identification numbers.

''They pay taxes and pay into Social Security,'' Mr. Sander said. ''I wouldn't
hire anyone without seeing their papers and Social Security number. It's too
risky as an employer.''

In a telephone interview, Representative King, a Republican who was first
elected in 1992, said that his stance was not intended to deprive
well-intentioned immigrants of the right to work hard for a living. Mr. King
voted to remove the felony provisions from his immigration bill, in an amendment
that was defeated.

The priority for the country, he said, is the need to ''gain control of the
borders'' for national security.

He stressed the need to ''seal the borders and penalize employers who hire
illegal immigrants'' before adding mechanisms for illegal immigrants to become
legal residents.

''I have no problem with increasing the amount of legal immigrants as guest
workers, but we have to do it legally,'' he said. ''After 9/11, we don't have
the luxury of allowing unlimited illegal immigrants into this country.''

Asked about his lawn, he said that Mr. Sander used to play Little League with
his son, Sean, and had been doing a great job on his lawn for years. He said he
trusted Mr. Sander to ensure that the workers were legal.

Patrick Santivasci, who lives nearby, said he was one of the few homeowners in
the neighborhood to still cut their own lawns.

Illegal immigrants, he said, are ''taking jobs away from people who really do
need them.''

''It's wrong that they come here without proper papers,'' Mr. Santivasci said.
''I'm liberal, but you can't milk the system. Ninety percent of them are
sneaking their way in. It's a free country, but it's too free.''

Another neighbor, Richard A. Yodice, 58, who was walking his dog while Mr.
King's landscapers were working at another house, disagreed.

''They're not taking the jobs we would work,'' Mr. Yodice said. ''They're taking
the nonskilled jobs. A white kid these days goes to college and gets into a
white-collar job. They don't take the lower-end jobs anymore.

''I drive by the 7-Eleven and see hundreds of workers and see 60 or 70 guys
swarming a contractor's truck,'' he said. ''I don't care if they're illegal, as
long as they're working. I just don't like to see them taking money out of the
economy here and sending it home.

''I'm a Republican and I always vote for King and read his columns, but I think
he comes down too hard on the immigrants,'' Mr. Yodice said. ''I think he's
trying to tie it in with the terrorism issue. You're here and working, maybe
that's the answer -- if they're legit and working, let them stay.''

Down the block, one of the workers putting in the driveway, Jose Pineda, 31,
said he had borrowed $6,000 back in El Salvador for a ride in a truck to Los
Angeles, and then wired back the payments over a year's time. He paid an
immigration lawyer to get a work permit, Mr. Pineda said.

He nodded toward his two workers, his nephew Moses Flores, 24, and his uncle
Calixto Pineda, 39, and said they had both immigrated the same way but had paid
almost $7,000 each.

Jose Pineda said he had learned masonry by working for Italian bricklayers and
then had started his own business and had bought a house in Roosevelt.

''They want to kick all the illegal Spanish workers out, but I don't think
Americans want to do these kind of jobs anymore,'' he said. ''They all work in
offices with their head, as lawyer or teachers or something. Of course, any
illegal people who don't like to work should be sent back.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hispanic workers tend to a lawn in the Seaford neighborhood of
Representative Peter King, above. He has co-sponsored a bill to reduce illegal
immigration. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles / The New York Times)
 (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Flag Not Everyone Is Rallying Around

BYLINE: By SAKI KNAFO

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT:
SUNNYSIDE/WOODSIDE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 405 words


At Paddy Duggans Pub, a snug drinking spot on Greenpoint Avenue in Sunnyside,
Queens, a clutch of middle-aged men sat at a corner of the bar on a recent
evening nursing bottles of American beer and pints of Guinness. Between sips, an
Irish carpenter named John Murphy swept his hand toward a row of empty stools.

''In the last three years,'' he said in a heavy brogue, ''this place is dead for
the Irish.''

Mr. Murphy was referring not only to the bar but also to the Celtic enclave of
Sunnyside. Like many Irish immigrants, he has recently seen droves of friends
leave the United States, something that he attributes not only to a
now-prosperous Ireland but also to the hardships facing illegal immigrants in
this country. But when he was asked about the large immigration rallies in
Queens this month, his angular face took on a dour expression. ''They're turning
people against us,'' he said bitterly.

Nearly two weeks ago, tens of thousands of immigrants in New York, along with
those nationwide, demonstrated against proposed legislation that aims to toughen
measures against illegal immigration. In a gesture of solidarity, many immigrant
shopkeepers closed their businesses for the day. But within the Irish community,
these tactics met with overwhelming disapproval.

''We don't know how many times you have to put people out in the streets to make
a point,'' said Niall O'Dowd, chairman of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform
and publisher of The Irish Voice. ''The backlash is a very real notion.''

The marches in New York were dominated by Latinos, as are many commercial
stretches in the traditional Irish strongholds of Sunnyside and neighboring
Woodside, which have seen an influx of immigrants from Central and South America
in the last two decades. The local demographics reflect a global story: a
booming Irish job market is drawing Irish immigrants back home, while some
Latin-American economies are faltering.

On Roosevelt Avenue, in the shadows of the elevated platform for the No. 7
train, Colombian cafeterias and Argentine bakeries sit next door to Irish pubs
and grocery stores. Yet the proximity of these businesses only accentuates the
lack of solidarity between the different groups of immigrants who run them and
frequent them. On May 1, for example, the day of the protests, Paddy Duggans was
serving the usual Guinness, while the Mexican restaurant beside it had its doors
bolted shut.   SAKI KNAFO


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Greenpoint Avenue, a Mexican restaurant and an Irish pub,
side by side. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

President's Middle Path Disappoints Both Sides

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Monica Davey reported from Chicago
for this article, and Ralph Blumenthal from Houston. Brenda Goodman contributed
reporting from Atlanta, and Carolyn Marshall from San Francisco.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE
NATIONAL DEBATE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, May 15


As Jose F. watched President Bush's address from an apartment on this city's
Northwest side, he shook his head fiercely at moments: at the prospect of
tamper-proof identification cards for legal workers, at the many mentions of
increased border security, and at what he saw, in the end, as uncertainty of the
future Mr. Bush intended for illegal immigrants like himself.

''I worry about the militarization and whether this will mean more deaths on the
border,'' said Jose F., 27, who sneaked in from Mexico nearly eight years ago
and who asked that his last name not be used because he feared losing his job at
a social services agency, deportation or both. ''And identification cards will
only make it harder to survive, and people will have to go further underground
and work for cash.''

In Houston, meanwhile, Louise Whiteford watched the president with equal
skepticism. Ms. Whiteford, president of Texans for Immigration Reform, a group
opposed to illegal immigration and founded in 1999, swiftly took issue with
several of Mr. Bush's promises and accomplishments, including an increase in the
Border Patrol to 12,000 agents from 9,000 since his administration took over.

''This is very inadequate,'' Ms. Whiteford, 76, said. ''That's about the number
of police in Fort Worth and Dallas.'' When the president said he planned to add
6,000 more by 2008, she shook her head, noting, ''That's too long.''

If Jose F. and Ms. Whiteford were any indication, Mr. Bush managed to disappoint
people on both sides of the immigration debate on Monday night. Each side said
it had hoped to hear more encouraging words over an issue that has become a
showdown in Congress and on the streets of cities like Los Angeles and Chicago.
Each side saw hints of an extended fight ahead.

Some supporters of tighter border restrictions said they did not approve of the
way they said Mr. Bush had signaled that he wanted some of the nation's
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants to become legal. On the other hand, some
immigrants and their advocates said they did not agree with his clearly stated
opposition to anything resembling ''amnesty.''

''I don't know what he is saying for someone like me,'' Jose F. said of the
president's description of a ''rational middle ground'' somewhere between
granting citizenship to all illegal immigrants and deporting all of them. ''I
have been working really hard. I have learned English. I pay taxes. I am not
here in the country to bring problems.''

But Ms. Whiteford, who watched the president on her 12-inch General Electric
television with a rabbit-ears antenna, was on guard against anything Mr. Bush
had to say about allowing illegal immigrants to legalize their status over time
with a fine.

''My citizenship is not for sale,'' she said. ''I don't like the idea that money
can buy citizenship.''

Ms. Whiteford grew up in Lima, Ohio, mingling happily, she said, with wartime
immigrants, only to find the nation now victimized by ''a form of slavery,
bringing in cheap labor that the corporations want and squeezing the middle
class.''

She said immigrants filled no special economic niche. ''I don't buy this 'jobs
Americans aren't doing,' '' she said. ''I can't think of a job Americans aren't
doing. My granddaughter runs a fishing boat in Alaska. One of my sons worked on
an oil rig.''

In border communities like Yuma, Ariz., however, where a local restaurant had to
delay its opening repeatedly because it could not find enough employees, the
president's call for immediate action on a way to bring more workers into the
country legally struck a positive chord.

''We need access to a legal work force,'' said C. R. Waters, president of the
Yuma Fresh Vegetable Association, a trade group that represents about 100 area
growers. During the last harvest, Mr. Waters said, farms were badly short of
labor.

''We need our borders secure,'' he said, ''but we also have to have an available
legal work force.''

Because it is so difficult for employers to verify legal status, Mr. Waters said
his group strongly supported measures mentioned in the president's address like
biometric identification, which would make crossing the border legal and rapid
for workers who wanted to commute between Mexico and the United States.

Others, though, saw little new in the president's plans.

''This seems to be a replay of every budget speech for the last 20 years,'' said
John D. Trasvina, interim president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund. ''They always say they want more personnel and more technology
at the border. It's a failed policy.''

In San Francisco, where the president's speech was broadcast on a television
above the jukebox at Los Jarritos, a popular Mexican restaurant, Dolores Reyes,
an owner, disagreed with nearly every point Mr. Bush made.

Ms. Reyes said she favored amnesty and objected to the idea of deploying the
National Guard to the border. ''The people will still find a way because money
talks,'' she said.

Back in Chicago, so much talk of border security sent Jose F.'s mind racing back
to his own journey to a small town in Arizona after a 12-hour walk over the
border. Fears of patrols were bad enough then, he said.

''I think the president needs to remember that all of these illegal people are
going to have kids who vote here one day,'' he said. ''They think we don't
matter, but those kids are not going to forget who helped their parents and who
didn't.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: SAYS BUSH'S PLAN IS INADEQUATE -- Louise Whiteford, president
of a group opposed to illegal immigration, watching President Bush's address at
home in Houston. She wants more Border Patrol agents. (Photo by Michael Stravato
for The New York Times)
 FEARS MORE DEATHS -- In Chicago, Jose F., a Mexican who came to the United
States illegally nearly eight years ago, worried that the president's plan would
mean more migrant deaths along the border. (Photo by Sally Ryan for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Guard Has Heard the Plan. Now It Needs the 'How.'

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD; Ralph Blumenthal contributed reporting from Houston
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE TROOPS;
Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16


National Guard officials said Tuesday that they were confident that they could
handle the complexity of sending thousands of soldiers to the border with Mexico
in the fight against illegal immigration. State officials, who will be in
control of the troops, said they were awaiting more details from the federal
government, which acknowledged Tuesday that it was still working out how to
handle such a major domestic deployment.

''We know the general set of mission assignments they will be asked to
perform,'' Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, told reporters
Tuesday. ''We are now looking at those mission sets and saying, What do we want
to start with?''

White House and Pentagon officials have said the troops would most likely be
asked to help the Border Patrol with construction, surveillance, intelligence
analysis, communications and other support functions.

Guard officials said Tuesday that they would be able to handle the logistics of
moving troops every few weeks. A maximum of 6,000 troops could be deployed to
the border at any one time in the operation's first year, but that would fall to
3,000 in the second year, officials said.

However, some former Defense Department officials said that rotating new units
to the border every three weeks, as Mr. Bush's plan proposes, would make it
harder for Guard troops to develop continuity in assisting the Border Patrol.

Over time, the rotations could strain some units in demand in Iraq and in
Afghanistan, current and former Pentagon officials said. Senator Richard J.
Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, calculated that the plan could result in more than
150,000 Guard members being deployed to the border in the next two years.

To minimize the stress on Guard units, the plan calls for sending units to the
border as part their annual two-week training obligation, which would be
lengthened to three weeks to allow time for travel. In addition, officials said,
some headquarters personnel in each state would not be rotated, to ensure
continuity.

About 400 National Guard troops have been deployed along the border since 1989,
assisting civilian authorities with combating drug trafficking, among other
responsibilities.

Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, the Defense
Department agency that oversees Guard operations, said the border mission would
be ''substantially similar'' to the drug enforcement assistance, though he added
that ''the size of the force and the commitment of resources will be far greater
than anything we have done in the past.''

Under Mr. Bush's plan, the federal government would finance the border mission,
but the governors in each of the four border states would control the troops,
determining the number used.

Maj. Gen. Charles G. Rodriguez, adjutant general of the Air and Army National
Guard in Texas, said in an interview that he expected orders to arrive soon from
the National Guard Bureau in Washington.

General Rodriguez said the Guard was prepared to move quickly to enact the
president's plan. ''If he says to jump, we'll jump,'' he said.

But he added that he did not know how many of the 6,000 troops might come from
Texas, which covers about 1,200 miles, or 65 percent, of the border with Mexico.
Texas now has 75 to 100 Guard troops helping the Border Patrol combat drug
traffic, with an additional 200 spread throughout the state on similar duty.

''We are not in the business of detaining or apprehending or catching anybody,''
General Rodriguez said, explaining that the Texas Guard troops provided
administrative support and ''analysis assistance,'' freeing border officers for
patrols. On occasion, he said, Texas soldiers also assisted with surveillance.

''There are times our analysts do a terrain walk with the Border Patrol,'' he
said.

While Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, a Republican, has said he would support sending
troops to the border, New Mexico's governor, Bill Richardson, a Democrat, has
been far more critical of such a plan.

Col. Barry Stout, chief of staff of the New Mexico National Guard, said in an
interview that only a few hundred more troops might be mobilized in that state.

If the four border states lack the troops to meet the Border Patrol's
requirements, other states may be asked to supply troops, Guard officials told
reporters on Tuesday.

According to the National Guard Association of the United States, which lobbies
for state Guard organizations, about 71,000 Guard members are mobilized, most
overseas. Last year, about 40,000 Guard troops were in Iraq; with an increase in
active-duty units, that number has fallen to fewer than 20,000.

''It won't be that hard to find the sheer numbers of Guard soldiers for the
border mission,'' said Christine E. Wormuth, a senior fellow at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies and a former Defense Department official.
''But the longer this mission extends, you will start having problems finding
people to do it who haven't also been deployed to Iraq.''

Some states with large National Guard organizations indicated Tuesday that they
were not eager to send their units to the border, preferring to keep them home
in case they were needed for traditional missions, like responding to natural
disasters.

''We don't anticipate being called for the border security mission, at least
early on, because here in Florida we are so susceptible to hurricanes,'' said
Lt. Col. Ronald Tittle of the Florida National Guard.

But Guard officials in other states said they would not object to sending troops
to the border as part of a short training mission.

Maj. Gen. John W. Libby of the Maine Army National Guard said that two Maine
units, an engineering battalion and a transportation company, could be useful
along the border. Both have been in Iraq, and both are scheduled for their
annual two-week training periods this summer.

If they were sent to the border for three weeks, General Libby said, ''I can't
see, based on what I'm hearing, that causing any undue strain on our soldiers or
their families.''



Arizona
TOTAL MEMBERS: 7,400
CURRENTLY OVERSEAS: 740
RECENT DEPLOYMENTS: 3,000 were overseas in 2003

New Mexico
TOTAL MEMBERS: 4,000
CURRENTLY OVERSEAS: 400
RECENT DEPLOYMENTS: 1000 were overseas in 2003

Other states
TOTAL MEMBERS: 388,000
CURRENTLY OVERSEAS: 64,000

(Sources by National Guard offices; White House)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Chertoff, center, the homeland security secretary, in
Washington yesterday with, from left, Julie L. Myers, assistant secretary for
immigration and customs enforcement
David V. Aguilar, the Border Patrol chief
Assistant Defense Secretary Paul McHale
 and Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum. (Photo by Caleb Jones/Associated Press)Chart:
''Patrolling the Border''Under President Bush's plan, up to 6,000 National Guard
troops would be deployed along the Mexican border for about a year, with a
diminishing number after that. The troops would come primarily from border
states.CaliforniaTOTAL MEMBERS: 20,000CURRENTLY OVERSEAS: 2,200RECENT
DEPLOYMENTS: 6,500 were overseas a year agoTexasTOTAL MEMBERS: 20,200CURRENTLY
OVERSEAS: 3,600RECENT DEPLOYMENTS: 750 recently returned from Afghanistan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Other Voices On Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 213 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Immigration, the President's Way'' (letters, May 17):

President Bush, unlike his erstwhile cheerleaders, understands that the
deportation of 11 million illegal immigrants is, practically speaking,
impossible -- and politically unwise.

First, each arrest would require probable cause. (A bullhorn and a police wagon
will not suffice.) And if the arrestee declined to speak and had no papers, an
investigation would have to be conducted to determine where he hailed from.

Scores of lockups and courts would have to be built, and thousands of police
officers and judges would have to be hired.

Many, many vehicles for transporting the deportees would need to be procured.

Beyond the legal and the logistical, President Bush knows that such a campaign
would generate a panoply of ugly sights.

Some illegal immigrants would die trying to escape apprehension, and others
would die on the journey home. Some would lose their possessions; others, their
loved ones.

Not pretty. Not pretty at all. Certainly not the kind of images a party would
want forever to be associated with.

President Bush has proved that he's smart -- ironically, to the great
disappointment of those who've been telling us that all along.

Nick Costantino
Ridgefield, N.J., May 17, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hundreds March for Immigration Rights

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 169 words


Hundreds of immigrants and their supporters marched down Madison Avenue
yesterday, calling on the United States Senate to pass legislation this week
that would offer millions of illegal immigrants the chance to become American
citizens.

The march was far smaller than an April 10 demonstration that drew thousands to
City Hall Park. The atmosphere was festive as Koreans, South Asians, Hispanics,
Haitians and others beat bongo drums, blew whistles and waved signs reading, ''I
Love Immigrant New York.''

Demonstrators walked from East 39th Street to East 23rd Street, converging
outside Madison Square Park, where some registered to vote and others filled out
cards urging Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton to support
legalization for all illegal immigrants.

''The timing was the most important thing,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive
director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella advocacy group,
which organized the march. ''It shows senators that we're watching every day.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

House Negotiator Calls Senate Immigration Bill 'Amnesty' and Rejects It

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26


The leading House negotiator on immigration denounced on Friday the bipartisan
legislation that passed the Senate this week, saying House Republicans would
never support a bill that gives illegal immigrants a chance at American
citizenship.

The negotiator, Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of
Wisconsin and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said he could envision
legislation that included a guest-worker program. But he insisted that strong
enforcement measures would have to be in place first, including an
employment-verification system and tough sanctions on employers who hired
illegal immigrants.

Mr. Sensenbrenner said he would continue to reject President Bush's call for a
compromise because he believed that the president, who supports a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants, remained out of touch with the public.

''The president is not where the American people are at,'' Mr. Sensenbrenner
said at a news conference. ''The Senate is not where the American people are
at.''

''Amnesty is wrong because it rewards someone for illegal behavior,'' he said.
''And I reject the spin that the senators have been putting on their proposal.
It is amnesty.''

Mr. Sensenbrenner's stance put him on a collision course with backers of the
Senate bill who say they will not accept any legislation that does not legalize
illegal immigrants.

''There's going to have to be a path to citizenship,'' Senator Charles E.
Schumer, Democrat of New York, said on Friday.

It also highlighted the enormousness of the challenge facing Mr. Bush as he
works to persuade reluctant House conservatives to embrace his position. Tony
Snow, the White House spokesman, suggested on Friday that the president would
embrace the challenge.

Mr. Snow said that Mr. Bush would continue to make his case on immigration and
suggested that the president had already addressed Republican concerns about
border security by promising to send up to 6,000 National Guard troops to help
out on the United States-Mexico border.

''I think there are areas on which members of the House are going to agree with
the president,'' Mr. Snow said, pointing to the widening consensus around a
guest-worker plan. ''There are certainly going to be disagreements, and that's
how the process works. They're going to have to get hashed out.''

Matthew Dowd, a strategist for Mr. Bush, said in a memorandum that polls
conducted for the Republican Party suggested strong support among Republicans
and conservatives for a temporary-worker program and for legalizing illegal
immigrants.

But House conservatives strongly disagreed. One House aide said on Friday that
constituents were furiously calling lawmakers to express outrage about the
Senate plan, which would require the government to consult with Mexico before
building a fence along the border.

NumbersUSA, a conservative group that supports reduced immigration, said the
plan ''would create the largest immigration increase in U.S. history -- a
disaster for American workers and taxpayers.''

Mr. Sensenbrenner said the Senate was poised to ''repeat the mistakes'' of the
failed 1986 amnesty law, which was supposed to end illegal immigration by
legalizing illegal immigrants, securing the country's borders and cracking down
on employers.

Instead, fraudulent applications tainted the process, many employers continued
illicit hiring practices, and illegal immigration surged. ''I would hope the
Senate would take a look back,'' Mr. Sensenbrenner said.

Separate from the attacks by conservatives, some immigrant groups continued on
Friday to criticize elements of the Senate bill, including provisions that would
expand deportation and detention and leave some immigrants vulnerable to
prosecution for using false documents to escape persecution in their home
countries.

Marshall Fitz, director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said those issues were of ''serious concern'' even though the
Senate bill would protect asylum-seekers from being deported while their claims
were under review by federal courts.

Other advocates for immigrants criticized the bill as favoring illegal
immigrants who had been in the country for longer than two years. Those living
here for a shorter time would be required to leave.

''Some people might want to hold their nose and swallow it,'' Mark Stan, program
director for the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, said of the
provisions in the Senate bill. ''But I think you can't have your eyes shut to
some of this.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 30, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about the opposition of Representative F.
James Sensenbrenner Jr., the leading House negotiator on immigration
legislation, to the measure passed last week by the Senate misstated the name of
the program director for the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund,
who was critical of some provisions of the Senate bill. He is Stanley Mark, not
Mark Stan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the House's lead
Republican negotiator on immigration, denounced a Senate bill yesterday. (Photo
by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Medicaid Rules Get Tougher About Proof of Citizenship

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 980 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


The Bush administration plans this week to issue strict standards requiring more
than 50 million low-income people on Medicaid to prove they are United States
citizens by showing passports or birth certificates and a limited number of
other documents.

The new standards follow a tussle with Congress. Federal health officials had
considered giving states broad discretion to accept affidavits in place of
official documents. But House Republicans complained, and the administration
backed off, allowing affidavits ''only in rare circumstances.''

The requirements, which take effect July 1, carry out a law signed by President
Bush on Feb. 8.

They vividly illustrate how concern about illegal immigration is affecting
domestic social welfare policy. The purpose of the law was to conserve federal
money for citizens, reducing the need for states to cut Medicaid benefits or
limit eligibility.

Gov. Rick Perry of Texas won enthusiastic applause at a state Republican
convention on Friday when he vowed to increase border security and said, ''Texas
will start requiring every Medicaid applicant to verify that they are in the
country legally in order to receive benefits.''

But officials in some other states and advocates for the poor said the new
requirements could cause hardship for children, older Americans and poor people
born at home in rural areas who never received birth certificates. Children
account for about half of Medicaid recipients. People 65 and older account for
about 10 percent.

Jennifer M. Ng'andu, a health policy specialist at the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic rights group, said, ''The documentation requirements will cause
confusion about eligibility and will put up barriers to enrollment.''

In general, Medicaid is available only to United States citizens and to certain
''qualified aliens.'' Before the new standards, in many states, people who
declared they were citizens did not have to support the claim.

But in a letter being sent this week to state officials, the Bush administration
says, ''Self-attestation of citizenship and identity is no longer an acceptable
practice.''

In the law, Congress listed examples of documents that could be used to show
citizenship, and it said the secretary of health and human services could ''by
regulation'' specify other acceptable documents.

The main proponents of the new requirements were two Republican House members
from Georgia, Representatives Charlie Norwood and Nathan Deal.

John E. Stone, a spokesman for Mr. Norwood, said Sunday: ''Charlie provided
feedback to the administration in the last two weeks to make sure the
regulations would not undermine the intent of the law. Obviously you need some
flexibility so that a 92-year-old woman with Alzheimer's does not get kicked off
Medicaid. What's unacceptable is for people to claim benefits or sign affidavits
swearing they are citizens without any verification.''

In an interview Sunday, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, said, ''We want to provide an effective way to
document citizenship without placing excessive burdens on states or
beneficiaries.''

In the letter to state Medicaid directors, the administration says, ''An
applicant or recipient who fails to cooperate with the state in presenting
documentary evidence of citizenship may be denied or terminated'' from the
program.

The requirements will be enforced when a person applies for Medicaid or when
eligibility is first recertified on or after July 1. In general, applicants and
recipients will have 45 days to provide documents. People with disabilities will
have 90 days.

States typically redetermine eligibility every 3 to 12 months. ''Once
citizenship has been proved, it need not be documented again'' because it does
not normally change, the administration said.

But the guidelines include a significant ambiguity: ''An individual who is
already enrolled in Medicaid will remain eligible if he or she showed a
good-faith effort to present satisfactory evidence of citizenship and identity,
even if this effort takes longer than 45 days.'' The administration says that
''beneficiaries will not lose benefits as long as they are undertaking a
good-faith effort to provide documentation.''

States have a strong incentive to enforce the requirements. If they fail to do
so, they can lose federal Medicaid money.

The guidelines say states should help people document citizenship, especially if
they are homeless, mentally impaired or physically incapacitated and have no one
to act on their behalf.

The guidelines list four categories of documents that can be used as evidence of
citizenship, from the most reliable to the least trustworthy. The best evidence,
they say, is a United States passport or a certificate of naturalization. The
next category includes state and local birth certificates and State Department
documents issued to children born abroad to United States citizens.

The third category consists of nongovernment documents showing place of birth.
These include medical records from doctors, hospitals and clinics; nursing home
admission papers; and records from life and health insurance companies.

The fourth category includes affidavits, which can be used ''only in rare
circumstances when the state is unable to secure evidence of citizenship'' from
other sources.

''An affidavit must be supplied by at least two individuals, one of whom is not
related to the applicant or recipient,'' the guidelines say. ''Each must attest
to having personal knowledge of the events establishing the applicant's or
recipient's claim of citizenship. The individuals making the affidavit must be
able to provide proof of their own citizenship and identity.''

People signing affidavits may also be asked ''why documentary evidence of
citizenship does not exist or cannot be readily obtained.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Suggests Immigrants Learn English

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: OMAHA, June 7


President Bush urged immigrants on Wednesday to learn English and history and
civics with the goal of ''helping us remain one nation under God.''

On the second day of a campaign-style trip to sell his immigration bill to the
public and to skeptical conservatives in Congress, Mr. Bush also directed his
homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, to create a ''task force on new
Americans'' to expand local initiatives to help immigrants integrate into
American society.

''One aspect of making sure we have an immigration system that works, that's
orderly and fair, is to actively reach out and help people assimilate into our
country,'' Mr. Bush said in a speech at a community college here. ''That means
learn the values and history and language of America.''

While the task force is largely symbolic -- there is no new money for it -- the
president's fresh emphasis on assimilation is part of a strategy by the White
House to unite Republicans in the House and Senate around what Mr. Bush calls
''comprehensive immigration reform.''

The House has passed a border security bill. The Senate measure, favored by the
president, includes a temporary guest worker program and a plan for citizenship
for some illegal immigrants who have been here several years, so long as they
work, pay taxes and learn English.

Mr. Bush dipped into the issue carefully, steering clear of a hot-button
provision in the Senate bill that directs the federal government to ''preserve
and enhance the role of English as the national language'' -- a provision that
White House aides say the president supports. It falls short of the goals of a
more controversial movement to make English the official language.

After meeting with immigrants who are learning English and receiving assistance
from the Juan Diego Center, a Catholic Charities organization here, Mr. Bush
used his speech to feature immigrant business owners. He singled out an auto
repair shop owner, Salvador Pina, who received a $10,000 loan from Catholic
Charities and now owns his building and has three employees.

''When you hear people like me talking about assimilation,'' Mr. Bush said,
''that's what we're talking about, helping people assimilate into America,
helping us remain one nation under God.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legislate Learning English? If Only It Were So Easy

BYLINE: By Austan Goolsbee.

Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago
Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar
Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1028 words


PRESIDENT BUSH'S plan to give longstanding illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship would require them to learn English as a sign that they accept
American culture. The conservative base of the Republican Party considers any
policy that would open that path as little more than amnesty, and they consider
the English requirement trivial.

In the midst of this dispute, evidence from economics suggests that for a large
share of today's immigrants, this path would not be nearly as easy as either
side might think. Immigrants already have a strong incentive to learn English:
better English means a better job and a higher income. Not speaking English
largely means being trapped in a low-paying job with no obvious means of
advancement. Yet millions still do not know English. Why not?

As Hoyt Bleakley, an economist at the University of Chicago Graduate School of
Business, puts it: ''For someone not to speak English after being in the country
for many years and in the face of the clear job market reward for learning
English, is likely a sign that learning the language is very tough for them. I'm
not so sure that having Congress tell them it's required will actually do
anything.''

The difficulties adults have with learning English are at the center of the
research that Professor Bleakley has done with a fellow economist, Aimee Chin,
of the University of Houston, in their forthcoming Review of Economics and
Statistics study ''Language Skills and Earnings: Evidence from Childhood
Immigrants'' http://www.uh.edu/achin/research/bleakley--chin--english.pdf

The study's approach begins with a linguistic theory known as the critical
period of second language acquisition. The idea is that a child can learn a new
language as fluently as a native speaker as long as the child starts before a
critical age (usually thought to be around 11 or 12). Past the critical period,
it is difficult to become fluent in a new language and virtually impossible to
speak without an accent.

It is a theory that can help explain why Henry A. Kissinger, who immigrated to
the United States at about age 14, speaks English with a German accent while his
younger brother, Walter, does not. (The alternative theory, supposedly given by
Walter Kissinger, was that Henry does not listen.) And it is a theory probably
quite familiar to millions of Americans with residual nightmares of high school
French.

Professor Bleakley and Professor Chin show rather stark evidence for this theory
in the data on immigrants' job prospects. By comparing the outcomes of
English-speaking and non-English-speaking immigrants who arrived in the United
States around the critical period age, they document that poor English skills
meant less schooling and substantially lower wages for immigrants and that these
disadvantages often extended to their children, even if those children were born
in the United States.

One of their simplest demonstrations of this fact compares immigrants from
different islands of the Caribbean. They document that the wages and education
levels of immigrants from non-English speaking islands like the Dominican
Republic or Puerto Rico look similar to those of immigrants from
English-speaking islands like Jamaica and Trinidad -- as long as the person
originally came to the United States by age 11. For those who were older when
they arrived, however, immigrants from non-English-speaking islands do
significantly worse, on average, than those from English-speaking ones.
Non-English speakers are much more likely to drop out of school and also have
significantly lower-paying jobs when working. Their finding points strongly
toward language as the deciding factor, since the differences exist only after
age 11.

Professor Bleakley and Professor Chin extend this initial study of immigrants by
asking how immigrant parents' language skills affect their children in ''What
Holds Back the Second Generation? The Intergenerational Transmission of Language
Human Capital Among Immigrants''
(http://www.ccis-ucsd.org/PUBLICATIONS/wrkg104.pdf).

As a starting point, the study notes that half the students now classified as
having low English proficiency were, in fact, born in the United States. They
are overwhelmingly the children of non-English-speaking immigrants. So, it is
natural to ask what impact parents have.

In turns out that children whose immigrant parents came to the United States
when young do just about the same in school regardless of whether the parents
came from English-speaking or non-English-speaking countries. But the situation
is different for children whose parents were older when they arrived. The
children from non-English-speaking households do much worse than
English-speaking ones. They are less likely to go to preschool and much more
likely to drop out of high school.

When Professor Bleakley and Professor Chin compare the overall distribution of
test scores of English- and non-English-speaking families, they find that the
big differences appear mainly among children with the lowest performance. The
top half of students from non-English-speaking households do just about as well
as the top half from English-speaking households. It seems that a child with
talent can succeed no matter what the parents' skills are, as has been true for
centuries in this country. But parents whose English is poor have a big negative
impact on the below-average children.

Based on his research, Professor Bleakley sees some serious problems with the
more extreme immigration proposals like the old Proposition 187 in California,
which sought to deny a public education to the children of illegal immigrants.

''For many children of immigrants,'' Professor Bleakley said, ''the school
system is one of the only exposures to English they will get.'' Kicking them out
of school when they are young means they will most likely never be fluent in
English.

The current dispute over immigration reform has been characterized as a battle
between two messages: ''Welcome to America'' and ''Please Go Home.'' Whichever
message prevails in the political battle this summer, unless directed mainly at
10-year-olds, had best come with a translation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Just Don't Call It Amnesty

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 714 words


When the going gets tough, the tough do not hold more hearings. But since
Republicans in the House want to spend the summer studying immigration, here are
two questions for them:

If Republican voters and talk-show hosts weren't screaming ''amnesty'' at you,
could you work out a compromise with the Senate?

Just how smart is it to keep dodging this issue?

By smart, of course, I don't mean what would be good in the long term for your
party, much less your country. You can't afford such distractions. You must
consider the big picture: your job.

You're afraid you'll lose in November unless you're as tough on immigration as
Brian Bilbray, who just got elected in San Diego by sounding like Lou Dobbs. But
he got only 49 percent of the vote in a Republican district, and he was blessed
with a verbal gaffe by an opponent who seemed to be encouraging immigrants to
vote illegally. Don't count on this in your race.

Pay more attention to a recent national poll of likely Republican voters
conducted by the Tarrance Group for the Manhattan Institute. These Republicans
liked the House's seal-the-border approach to immigration less than the
comprehensive approach favored by the Senate and President Bush: combine tough
enforcement with a chance for the illegal immigrants already here to pay a fine,
become legal and eventually earn citizenship.

You call this amnesty, and nearly 40 percent of the poll's respondents agreed.
Yet 75 percent of all the Republicans favored it anyway.

If you're still terrified of the A-word, consider how Republicans defined it in
the poll. It made a big difference how an immigrant went about applying for
legal status. If he could apply while staying in America, that was considered a
form of amnesty by nearly 60 percent of the respondents. But if he had to go
back to his native country and apply, then only 22 percent called it amnesty.

To Mike Pence, that poll result is a ''window of opportunity.'' Pence, the
Indiana Republican who leads the House conservative caucus, is dead set against
the Senate immigration bill, which he considers amnesty. But he thinks there's a
deal to be made before the election by giving immigrants an incentive to go to
their home countries in order to get a visa.

Pence wants to beef up border security immediately, and then, once the measures
are in place two years later, open up ''Ellis Island centers'' in Mexico and
Central American countries that would quickly match foreign workers with
American companies.

If the worker passed background checks and an American employer promised to hire
him, he'd get a high-tech ID card and a guest-worker visa. During the first
three years of the program, there'd be no cap on the number of visas: workers
could get visas as long as they had jobs waiting for them.

Negotiating the details of this plan would be tricky, particularly giving
immigrants the chance they deserve to eventually become more than just temporary
workers. It would require an increase in the number of future slots available
for permanent residents and citizens, and that increase would be a tough sell
with some Republicans.

But if you're trying to please the voters who object mainly to the presence of
illegal immigrants, Pence's plan would work. Besides inducing illegal immigrants
here to come out of the shadows, the program would also discourage new
immigrants from sneaking across the border. Why bother if you could get a visa
along with a job?

American companies wouldn't have to break the law to hire immigrants, and they'd
face new sanctions if they employed anyone without the right ID and visa. The
result would be a more secure border, fewer illegal immigrants, more legal
workers for companies -- and not as many Republicans complaining about amnesty.

You might still think it's safer to dodge the whole issue until after the
election, but that's a risk too. Republicans rank immigration right below
terrorism and national security in their hierarchy of issues. They think the
current system is a mess, and they blame Washington for it.

That means you. Maybe, after the hearings this summer, you can plead with voters
in November for just a little more time to solve the problem -- one more
reprieve. But the voters may figure that's an even worse form of amnesty.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Pit Bull' of the House Latches On to Immigration

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10


Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. has no tolerance for illegal
immigrants, either in his political life or personal life.

''My housekeeper in Wisconsin was born in Wisconsin,'' says Mr. Sensenbrenner,
the Republican congressman and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. ''My
housekeeper here is a naturalized U.S. citizen from Nicaragua.''

Mr. Sensenbrenner is so loath to risk dealing with illegal immigrants that when
his Cadillacs need cleaning, he prefers do-it-yourself car washes that require
tokens. ''They don't have Montezuma's picture on the front of them,'' Mr.
Sensenbrenner says of the tokens.

He is sitting in his Capitol Hill office dominated by two life-size portraits of
himself. He looms heavily here, as he does in the thick of the national debate
over immigration in which he has defied President Bush's plans for reform and
arguably holds more sway than anyone else in Congress. A bipartisan irritant
from a state nowhere near the Mexican border, he has outsize influence on the
fate of the country's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants.

In each portrait in his office, Mr. Sensenbrenner appears regal and contented --
in contrast to the rumpled and fed-up image he conveys in real life. He is
commonly described as ''prickly,'' ''cantankerous'' and ''unpleasant.'' And this
is by his friends.

''I would describe Jim as -- what's a nice word -- how about 'idiosyncratic'?''
says Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican on the Judiciary
Committee.

Mr. Lungren equates Mr. Sensenbrenner's leadership to something the Green Bay
Packer guard Jerry Kramer said about his coach Vince Lombardi. ''He treats us
all equally,'' Mr. Lungren says of Mr. Sensenbrenner. ''He treats us all like
dogs.''

Mr. Sensenbrenner, 63, can be neutrally described as a Washington piece of work
-- a big-bellied curmudgeon with a taste for old Caddies, pontoon boats and
enormous cigars. He is equally at home discussing policy minutiae or the details
of his Dalmatian's recent intestinal problems. His honking voice and Upper
Midwestern enunciations make him one of the most mimicked politicians on Capitol
Hill. (''Noooo interviews in the hallway'' is a familiar refrain as he blows
past reporters.)

One could dismiss him as something of a cartoon, except that Mr. Sensenbrenner
has been a feared and vital character in some defining political dramas, like
the Clinton impeachment, the passage of the USA Patriot Act and the current
legislative donnybrook over immigration, an issue that he calls his toughest in
nearly four decades of public life.

He has approached the matter with characteristic stubbornness, righteousness
and, of course, brusqueness. He delights in placing himself above the chummy
niceties of Washington. (On the subject of his crotchety nature, he smiles big
and becomes almost giddy -- most unSensenbrenner-like.)

His conservative populism and maverick tendencies play well in a state that has
elected political outliers including Senators Joseph R. McCarthy and William
Proxmire. They also suit the solidly Republican district outside Milwaukee that
first elected Mr. Sensenbrenner in 1978.

But he does not always suit the House Republican leadership, many Senate
Republicans and the Bush White House. He has been the chief promoter of the
House's ''enforcement first'' approach to immigration overhaul, emphasizing
border security, criminal penalties for illegal immigrants and sanctions against
employers who hire them. The president and the Senate have favored a package
that offers illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

In recent weeks, Mr. Sensenbrenner has refused to yield on anything, derided
what he calls the ''amnesty'' of the Senate bill and warned that he is willing
to walk away without a compromise. He says his views have been influenced by the
flood of immigration-related cases coming through his office and what he sees as
the failure of previous immigration reform efforts he has worked on.

He is known as one of the toughest negotiators in Congress, which invites
another canine metaphor from a colleague. ''Sensenbrenner is a pit bull,'' says
Representative Ric Keller, a Florida Republican on the Judiciary Committee.
''And the Senate negotiators he's up against are wearing Milk-Bone underwear.''

During a 50-minute interview that feels, at times, like a lecture, Mr.
Sensenbrenner says:

''You have to be prickly to prod people into accomplishing something.''

''I've adopted a philosophy of telling it like it is.''

''I've been referred to  as a difficult child.''

''If you go along to get along, you don't get anything accomplished.''

For as much as Mr. Sensenbrenner decries the impulse to ''go along to get
along,'' he also pays close attention to what is said about him. This is
underscored by how wary colleagues are of speaking on the record about him.

Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who has been mentioned as a
possible successor as Judiciary Committee chairman, said he would gladly talk
about Mr. Sensenbrenner. But later, a spokeswoman for Mr. Smith called to demur,
saying, ''It's not the right time for us to comment.''

To a surprising degree, Democrats on the committee praise Mr. Sensenbrenner for
his fairness, efficiency and willingness to heed the concerns of the minority
party. He has also been lauded for spearheading an extension of the Voting
Rights Act.

''The House leadership has relied on me to do some very difficult jobs over the
years,'' says Mr. Sensenbrenner, who served as a House manager during President
Bill Clinton's impeachment trial and whose six-year stint heading the Judiciary
Committee will end in January.

He clearly enjoys being a high-profile committee chairman -- even his wife of 29
years, Cheryl, calls him Mr. Chairman (''but only when she's mad at me,'' he
says).

He is easily annoyed when his authority is disregarded. Senator John McCain,
Republican of Arizona, for instance, recently promoted a compromise immigration
plan that would have focused on enforcement and border security first, then
carry out the more contentious changes. Asked about the McCain proposal, Mr.
Sensenbrenner stares blankly and flips his hand dismissively.

''McCain has not called me to propose that,'' he says, even though the notion
had been widely discussed on Capitol Hill. It is as if no such possibility could
exist until the House chairman was personally informed of it.

Mr. Sensenbrenner goes on to say that he has no relationship with Mr. McCain,
with whom he served two terms in the House in the 1980's. ''There's some
senators who come back from whence they came, and McCain is not one of them,''
Mr. Sensenbrenner says. ''When he left, we never saw him again.''

''I deal with Specter,'' he adds, referring to Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania,
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

When asked what it is like to negotiate with Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Specter
pauses for several seconds. Then he says, ''He is a lot more cordial in person
than his reputation.''

Mr. Sensenbrenner projects the self-assurance of a lucky man. He reaped a
fortune from a great-grandfather who invented the Kotex sanitary napkin. He won
$250,000 in 1997 on a lottery ticket he purchased while buying beer. He lists
assets of almost $11 million, according to public filings.

Mr. Sensenbrenner was born in Chicago, graduated from Stanford University and,
while at college, worked as an aide to aRepublican congressman. After earning a
law degree, he began an uninterrupted political career that started in the
Wisconsin Assembly and landed him in the United States House of Representatives
at age 35.

Not given to navel gazing, he prefers, he says, to spend time on his pontoon
boat on a Wisconsin lake, smoking behemoth cigars imported from Honduras or the
Dominican Republic. The family Dalmatian, Solomon -- also known as Stinky --
comes along, too.

Mr. Sensenbrenner concludes with an aside about Stinky -- specifically, the case
of giardia that the dog picked up a few weeks ago, which requires Mr.
Sensenbrenner to force-feed Stinky four pills a day. This is not easy.

But the chairman says he picked up a strategy from a guy he met in the beer tent
of a church festival. He places the pills in the dog's throat, and blows in his
face. Stinky then swallows them. ''I'd never tried that before, blowing in a
dog's face,'' Mr. Sensenbrenner marvels.

He has never tried it with a senator, either. ''I have given them pills that
don't taste very good,'' he says. ''I've done that.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. directing a House
hearing. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Star of the Right Loses His Base At the Border

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

DATELINE: MUNCIE, Ind.


He supports tax cuts and the war in Iraq. He opposes stem cell research and the
Medicare drug plan. He is a master of his movement's medium, talk radio. Jesus
Christ is his personal savior and Ronald Reagan his political idol.

Conjure what might be called the perfect conservative, and chances are he would
look a lot like Representative Mike Pence, the Indiana Republican who in just
three terms has turned 100 House allies into a vanguard and himself into one of
his party's rising stars.

Or that was the case until this spring when he sought compromise in the
rancorous immigration debate. His complicated plan would strengthen border
security and send illegal immigrants home, but let most of them quickly return.
Since then, Mr. Pence -- named last year's Man of the Year by the conservative
weekly Human Events -- has looked to some conservatives like this year's
Benedict Arnold. They say he has lent his conservative prestige to a form of
liberal amnesty.

Phyllis Schlafly of the Eagle Forum called his plan ''a sick joke.'' Richard A.
Viguerie, the direct-mail pioneer, threatened to punish politicians who
supported it. Pat Buchanan, editor of The American Conservative, likened the
betrayal to a scene from ''The Godfather.''

Perpetually genial, prematurely gray, Mr. Pence, 47, said, ''I was taken aback
by the level of invective.''

''It's a test of the character of the conservative movement in the 21st
century,'' he said. ''We are either going to prove that we believe in the ideas
enshrined on the Statue of Liberty or the American people will go looking
elsewhere.''

Mr. Pence -- who bills himself as ''a Christian, a conservative and a
Republican, in that order'' -- pushed the plan on a recent trip across his
district. He quoted the Bible. He quoted Ronald Reagan. He stood sweating in a
tomato field beside Mexican workers. And when asked why an Indiana congressman
was focused on the border, he responded with a ready phrase: ''April 11, 1923.''

That is when his Irish grandfather, Richard Michael Cawley, a Chicago bus
driver, arrived on Ellis Island. ''We were especially close,'' said Mr. Pence,
who added that he sees his grandfather's thrift and hard work in today's
immigrant generation.

Some members of the Muncie Chamber of Commerce had doubts. Some worried about
cost. Some worried about compliance. But several complimented him for tackling a
tough cause. ''It is the greatest privilege of my life to represent you,'' he
said.

Though he comes from a family of Irish Catholic Democrats -- his father ran a
string of gas stations -- Mr. Pence joined an evangelical fellowship group at
Hanover College, drawn less by theological issues than by its more personal
style of worship. His religion pulled him to the right. ''I had a hard way of
reconciling my commitment to biblical truth with the national Democratic Party's
commitment to abortion on demand,'' he said.

His wife, Karen, teaches at a religious school, and sends out e-mail messages
asking for the prayers of his supporters. ''Please pray for the Holy Spirit to
speak through him at the bbq,'' a recent message read.

Mr. Pence, two years out of law school, made his first Congressional run in 1988
and lost narrowly to a longtime Democratic incumbent, Phil Sharp. He tried again
two years later, in a negative campaign that won him just 42 percent of the
vote. Mr. Pence was devastated.

''What was most painful to me was the bile in my throat over how I had
responded,'' he said. ''My faith says if someone strikes you on the cheek, turn
the other. My response, after being attacked by my opponent, was to empty the
silos on this guy.''

Mr. Pence delivered an unusual self-rebuke in an article called ''Confessions of
a Negative Campaigner.'' Then he ran a conservative research group, the Indiana
Policy Review Foundation, and was host of a talk radio show in Indianapolis. The
seat opened up again in 2000 and Mr. Pence squeaked in -- with civility, he
said.

''I'm a conservative, but I'm not mad about it,'' he often says.

Arriving in Washington, he was dismayed at conservatives' support for government
expansion. In 2001, he was one of 34 Republicans to oppose the No Child Left
Behind Act, which expanded federal involvement in education. In 2003, he was one
of 25 who opposed the Medicare drug benefit. ''I was voting against big
conservative government before it was cool,'' he said.

Congressional leaders hinted at reprisals, but the base applauded, especially
after a 2004 speech in which he warned that the movement was drifting into ''the
dangerous and uncharted waters of big government.''

Among those won over was Paul Weyrich, a fixture of movement conservatism. He
said Mr. Pence had strong appeal among supporters of four major conservative
causes: limited government, free enterprise, strong defense and traditional
values.

''Nobody is perfect, but he comes pretty close,'' Mr. Weyrich said. ''He is what
I've been waiting for in terms of leadership.''

Last year, Mr. Pence became head of the Republican Study Committee, a
conservative caucus. He quickly expanded its profile, and, rivals note, his own.
Mr. Pence, unlike many conservatives, courts the news media.

His influence was apparent last fall after Hurricane Katrina, when Washington
was suddenly filled with talk of new aid for the needy. Concerned about the
cost, Mr. Pence's group replied with Operation Offset, a plan to cut $500
billion over 10 years in programs that included Medicaid, tax credits for the
poor, and care for people with AIDS.

It outraged the leadership, which accused him of showboating, and failed to
pass. But it quickly changed the political dynamics, from starting programs to
cutting them. Five months later, with Mr. Pence nearby, President Bush signed a
bill that cut $39 billion over five years. ''I think Operation Offset had
something to do with that, though I would never boast of that,'' Mr. Pence said.

Edwin J. Feulner Jr., president of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative
Washington group, said Mr. Pence ''has really been central to the revival of
principled conservatism in the House.'' Admirers have already begun a ''Mike
Pence for President'' Web site.

But some colleagues grumble about what they call his self-promotion, and critics
on the left see harshness behind the geniality. Robert Greenstein, executive
director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal group, said
that while the Republican effort was billed as deficit reduction, it in fact
made the deficit larger. That is because the reductions were paired with $70
billion of tax cuts, mostly for the very well-to-do. ''This is Robin Hood in
reverse,'' Mr. Greenstein said.

Barry Welsh, a Democrat challenging Mr. Pence this fall, is a Methodist minister
who said, ''I find it hypocritical that he claims such Christianity'' while
''cutting the benefits of those who need them.''

Mr. Pence argued that tax cuts help the poor by revving the economy. That may
eventually prove true, but despite large tax cuts the poverty rate has risen in
each of the last four years.

''That's anecdotal,'' Mr. Pence said in an interview last fall. Then he offered
an anecdote -- a story President Reagan told about a pipe fitter pleased to see
the rich prosper, ''because I've never been hired by a poor man.''

With Republicans worried about losing control of Congress in the midterm
elections this fall, some moderates say Mr. Pence's wing of the party has pushed
it toofar to the right; conservatives like Mr. Pence say that in accepting what
they call big government, the party has not hewed to its conservative principles
enough.

When Mr. Pence weighed in on immigration this spring, the issue, like much of
the Republican agenda, was stalled and Republicans were deeply split. The House
had passed a tough bill focusing on border security alone. The Senate had passed
a broader measure that included a guest worker program and a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants already here.

Mr. Pence tried to offer something to everyone. He included provisions to
bolster the borders. After two years, if the government certified that those
changes were in place, a guest worker program would begin. Those here unlawfully
would have to leave the country and apply at job-placement centers. By requiring
re-entry, Mr. Pence argues, the plan avoids amnesty and respects the rule of
law. The guest worker visas could be renewed, with a chance of citizenship after
17 years.

Mr. Bush sent an approving signal by inviting Mr. Pence to an Oval Office
meeting. And the proposal won a Senate co-sponsor in Kay Bailey Hutchison,
Republican of Texas.

The idea, at best, faces an uphill fight when Congress reconvenes next week. But
Tamar Jacoby, a fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute who sees promise
in Mr. Pence's approach, said that without him, ''the issue would be dead.''

So his critics fear. Team America, a conservative political action committee,
now has a feature on its Web site called ''Pence Watch.'' Representative Tom
Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, said the plan would encourage more illegal
immigration and undermine cultural cohesion. But David Keene, chairman of the
American Conservative Union, credits Mr. Pence's ''courage to think outside the
box.''

Does he worry his conservative image has been tarnished?

''I'm not completely immune to that thought,'' Mr. Pence said, en route to a
photo op in an Orestes, Ind., tomato field. Then he quoted from Micah in the Old
Testament: ''Do justice and love kindness.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Mike Pence has advocated a more lenient approach
to illegal immigrants than many of his fellow conservatives have. (Photo by
Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

House Republicans Will Push for 700 Miles of Fencing on Mexico Border

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13


House Republicans announced Wednesday that they would move swiftly to pass
legislation requiring the Bush administration to build 700 miles of fencing
along the Mexican border to help stem the flow of illegal immigrants and drugs
into the United States.

The legislation, which is expected to go to the House floor for a vote on
Thursday, would require construction of two layers of reinforced fencing along
stretches of California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas that are considered among
the most porous parts of the border.

It would also require officials of the Department of Homeland Security to
establish ''operational control'' over all American land and sea borders by
using Border Patrol agents, fencing, satellites, cameras and unmanned aerial
vehicles.

The bill is the first in a series of border security measures House Republicans
have promised to pass before the midterm elections in November.

The House majority leader, Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio,
hailed the legislation as ''a critical step towards shutting down the flow of
illegal immigration into the United States.''

Democrats promptly criticized the plan as political grandstanding intended to
energize conservative voters before the elections.

The House passed a nearly identical fencing provision as part of a border
security bill in December. Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary,
has publicly raised doubt about the effectiveness of border fencing,
particularly in remote desert areas.

While the Senate easily approved 370 miles of border fencing in its own
immigration bill in May, it is unclear whether the two chambers will be able to
reach agreement on the issue before Congress recesses this month. House leaders
have said they will not support the Senate bill, which would create a guest
worker plan and put millions of illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship in
addition to toughening border security.

Jennifer Crider, a spokeswoman for the House Democratic leader, Representative
Nancy Pelosi of California, dismissed the fence bill as partisan politicking.
''Republicans have a record of failure on border security,'' Ms. Pelosi said,
''and this is their attempt to cover up that record.''

House Republicans countered that immigration hearings held across the nation in
August showed that Americans expected Congress to toughen border security,
particularly while the country remained under threat of terrorist attacks.

Congressional staff members predicted that some House Democrats, especially
those from border states, would support the fencing bill.

The barriers, which are to be accompanied by additional lighting, cameras and
ground sensors, would be built near Tecate and Calexico on the California
border; Columbus, N.M.; and El Paso, Del Rio, Eagle Pass, Laredo and Brownsville
in Texas.

House Republicans have also proposed counterfeit-proof Social Security cards for
citizens and immigrants searching for work, measures that would require the
deportation of immigrants linked to Central American gangs and an increase in
the number of Border Patrol agents as part of their border security agenda.

''The first priority of the American people is secure borders,'' said
Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, who is the chairman of the
House Homeland Security Committee.

House Republicans said they were encouraged by what they called the success of a
14-mile fence at San Diego that was mandated by Congress in 1996. Crime rates
have dropped by 47 percent since the fence was constructed, they said, and the
number of illegal immigrants captured dropped to about 9,000 in 2005 from about
200,000 in 1992.

Amy Call, a spokeswoman for the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee,
said Senate Republicans would consider the legislation.

''The leader believes very strongly that we need to secure the border,'' Ms.
Call said. ''We'll look at all options to do that.''

Senator Jeff Sessions, the Alabama Republican who championed the fencing
provision in the Senate, praised House Republicans for pushing ahead with the
legislation. Mr. Sessions said he was concerned that the Senate proposal, which
had been attached to the military appropriations bill, might not receive
adequate financing.

''They've put forth a strong barrier bill,'' Mr. Sessions said of House
Republicans. ''It's time for us to complete the job.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration's Lost Year

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 564 words


Congressional leaders and President Bush insisted for months that they were
serious about fixing the immigration system. They weren't, and the more talk you
hear about border security, about building walls and getting tough this time,
the clearer it will be that hopes for effective immigration reform this year are
past saving, pinned down by strong arms in the Republican-controlled House and
kicked until dead.

The latest proposals are the product of a Republicans-only ''forum'' last week
that distilled the bilge water of a summer's worth of immigration ''hearings,''
which were actually badly disguised campaign events. The hearings -- with titles
like ''How Does Illegal Immigration Impact American Taxpayers and Will the
Reid-Kennedy Amnesty Worsen the Blow?'' -- were show trials put on to destroy
comprehensive reform by any means necessary. ''What I wanted was witnesses who
agree with me, not disagree with me,'' said Representative Charlie Norwood of
Georgia, putting it perfectly.

The ''Reid-Kennedy Amnesty,'' by the way, refers to the now-defunct Senate
immigration bill, which passed that Republican-controlled body with the support
of stalwarts like Arlen Specter, John McCain, Mel Martinez, Bill Frist, Chuck
Hagel and the most prominent Republican of all, Mr. Bush. One of the many signs
of the hysteria accompanying this election season is the way their moderate
approach to immigration has been tarred as wholesale ''amnesty'' for
lawbreakers.

Like the summer hearings, the latest G.O.P. legislation is an empty vessel, a
sham product aimed at the November elections that sells the test-marketed
concept of ''security'' with little to back it up. By decreeing that a 700-mile
fence should be the nation's top immigration priority while rabidly opposing a
path to legal status for illegal immigrants, the House Republicans are hotly
pursing a failed strategy. What satisfies the talk-radio appetite for justice --
wall 'em out and deport the rest -- is not just needlessly cruel. It also won't
work.

If the House Republicans have their way and enforcement-only becomes our
national policy, illegal immigrants will keep their heads down and keep working,
cowed into accepting low pay and abuse, dragging down working conditions for
everybody else. Lawlessness among the employers who hire them will be
encouraged. If you like this world of illegality, anonymity and under-the-table
cash, then the House Republican approach is the one for you.

Real immigration security means separating the harmful from the hard-working. It
means imposing the rule of law on the ad-hoc immigrant economy. It means freeing
up resources so that overburdened law-enforcement agencies can restore order at
the border and in the workplace. It means holding employers, not just workers,
responsible for obeying the law. And it means tapping the energy of vast numbers
of immigrants who dream of becoming citizens and who can make the country
stronger.

These are huge tasks, and the anti-immigrant forces have nothing to contribute.
They are out of ideas, except about getting re-elected. Their calculated
inaction and half-measures mock Americans' support for comprehensive reform,
which has been repeatedly confirmed in opinion polls.

We will see whether the November elections will make the travesty worth it for
the immigrant-bashers, but for the nation it has become a lost year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Fence Must Skirt Objections From Arizona Tribe

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1386 words

DATELINE: TOHONO O'ODHAM NATION, Ariz., Sept. 14


The Senate is expected to vote Wednesday on legislation to build a
double-layered 700-mile-long fence on the Mexican border, a proposal already
approved by the House.

If the fence is built, however, it could have a long gap -- about 75 miles -- at
one of the border's most vulnerable points because of opposition from the Indian
tribe here.

More illegal immigrants are caught -- and die trying to cross into the United
States -- in and around the Tohono O'odham Indian territory, which straddles the
Arizona border, than any other spot in the state.

Tribal leaders have cooperated with Border Patrol enforcement, but they promised
to fight the building of a fence out of environmental and cultural concerns.

For the Tohono O'odham, which means ''desert people,'' the reason is fairly
simple. For generations, their people and the wildlife they revere have freely
crossed the border. For years, an existing four-foot-high cattle fence has had
several openings -- essentially cattle gates -- that tribal members use to visit
relatives and friends, take children to school and perform rites on the other
side.

''I am O'odham first, and American or Mexican second or third,'' said Ramon
Valenzuela, as he walked his two children to school through one gate two miles
from his O'odham village in Mexico.

But the pushed-up bottom strands of the cattle fence and the surrounding desert
littered with clothing, water jugs and discarded backpacks testify to the growth
in illegal immigrant traffic, which surged here after a Border Patrol
enforcement squeeze in California and Texas in the mid-1990's.

Crossers take advantage of a remote network of washes and trails -- and
sometimes Indian guides -- to reach nearby highways bound for cities across the
country.

Tribal members, who once gave water and food to the occasional passing migrant,
say they have become fed up with groups of illegal immigrants breaking into
homes and stealing food, water and clothing, and even using indoor and outdoor
electrical outlets to charge cellphones.

With tribal police, health and other services overwhelmed by illegal
immigration, the Indians welcomed National Guard members this summer to assist
the Border Patrol here. The tribe, after negotiations with the Department of
Homeland Security, also agreed to a plan for concrete vehicle barriers at the
fence and the grading of the dirt road parallel to it for speedier Border Patrol
and tribal police access. The Indians also donated a parcel this year for a
small Border Patrol substation and holding pen.

Tribal members, however, fearing the symbolism of a solid wall and concern about
the free range of deer, wild horses, coyotes, jackrabbits and other animals they
regard as kin, said they would fight the kind of steel-plated fencing that
Congress had in mind and that has slackened the crossing flow in previous hot
spots like San Diego.

''Animals and our people need to cross freely,'' said Verlon Jose, a member of
the tribal council representing border villages. ''In our tradition we are
taught to be concerned about every living thing as if they were people. We don't
want that wall.''

The federal government, the trustee of all Indian lands, could build the fence
here without tribal permission, but that option is not being pressed because
officials said it might jeopardize the tribe's cooperation on smuggling and
other border crimes.

''We rely on them for cooperation and intelligence and phone calls about illegal
activity as much as they depend on us to respond to calls,'' said Chuy
Rodriguez, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Tucson, who described overall
relations as ''getting better and better.''

The Tohono number more than 30,000, including 14,000 on the Arizona tribal
territory and 1,400 in Mexico. Building a fence would impose many challenges,
apart from the political difficulties.

When steel fencing and other resources went up in California and Texas, migrant
traffic shifted to the rugged terrain here, and critics say more fencing will
simply force crossers to other areas without the fence. Or under it, as
evidenced by the growth in the number of tunnels discovered near San Diego.

The shift in traffic to more remote, treacherous terrain has also led to
hundreds of deaths of crossers, including scores on tribal land here.

The effort to curtail illegal immigration has proved especially difficult on the
Tohono O'odham Nation, whose 2.8 million acres, about the size of Connecticut,
make it the second largest in area.

Faced with poverty and unemployment, an increasing number of tribal members are
turning to the smuggling of migrants and drugs, tribal officials say.

Just this year, the tribal council adopted a law barring the harboring of
illegal immigrants in homes, a gesture to show it is taking a ''zero tolerance''
stand, said the tribal chairwoman, Vivian Juan-Saunders.

Two members of Ms. Juan-Saunders's family have been convicted of drug smuggling
in the past several years, and she said virtually every family had been touched
by drug abuse, smuggling or both.

Sgt. Ed Perez of the tribal police said members had been offered $400 per person
to transport illegal immigrants from the tribal territory to Tucson, a 90-minute
drive, and much more to carry drugs.

The Border Patrol and tribal authorities say the increase in manpower and
technology is yielding results. Deaths are down slightly, 55 this year compared
with 62 last year, and arrests of illegal immigrants in the Border Patrol
sectors covering the tribal land are up about 10 percent.

But the influx of agents, many of whom are unfamiliar with the territory or
Tohono ways, has brought complaints that the agents have interfered with tribal
ceremonies, entered property uninvited and tried to block members crossing back
and forth.

Ms. Juan-Saunders said helicopters swooped low and agents descended on a recent
ceremony, apparently suspicious of a large gathering near the border, and she
has complained to supervisors about agents speeding and damaging plants used for
medicine and food.

Some traditional and activist tribal members later this month are organizing a
conference among eight Indian nations on or near the border to address concerns
here and elsewhere.

''We are in a police state,'' said Michael Flores, a tribal member helping to
organize the conference. ''It is not a tranquil place anymore.''

Mr. Rodriguez acknowledged the concerns but said agents operated in a murky
world where a rush of pickups from a border village just might be tribal members
attending an all-night wake, or something else.

''Agents make stops based on what they see,'' he said. ''Sometimes an agent sees
something different from what tribal members or others see.''

Agents, he added, are receiving more cultural training, including a new cultural
awareness video just shot with the help of tribal members.

''Our relations have come a long way'' in the past decade, he said.

Mr. Valenzuela said several agents knew him and waved as he traveled across the
border, but others have stopped him, demanding identification. Once, he said, he
left at home a card that identifies him as a tribal member and an agent demanded
that he go back into Mexico and cross at the official port of entry in Sasabe,
20 miles away.

''I told him this is my land, not his,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, who was finally
allowed to proceed after the agent radioed supervisors.

Mr. Valenzuela said he would not be surprised if a big fence eventually went up,
but Ms. Juan-Saunders said she would affirm the tribe's concerns to Congress and
the Homeland Security department. She said she would await final word on the
fence and its design before taking action.

Members of Congress she has met, she said, ''recognize we pose some unique
issues to them, and that was really what we are attempting to do, to educate
them to our unique situation.''

The House last week approved a Republican-backed bill 238 to 138 calling for
double-layer fencing along a third of the 2,000-mile-long border, roughly from
Calexico, Calif., to Douglas, Ariz.

There is considerable support for the idea in the Senate, although President
Bush's position on the proposal remains uncertain. The Homeland Security
secretary, Michael Chertoff, has expressed doubts about sealing the border with
fences.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Flores, a tribal member, near a cross marking the spot
where someone died in the desert on the Tohono O'odham Nation.
Ramon Valenzuela, a Tohono O'odham tribe member, with his children, Mathias, 14,
and Valentina, 10.
 A four-foot-high fence with openings for cattle stretches along the Mexican
border on the Tohono O'odham Indian Nation near Tucson. (Photographs by Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)Map of Arizona highlighting Tohono O'odham Nation:
The Tohono O'odham Nation straddles the Mexico border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Boeing Said to Be Selected To Lead Border Program

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19


After a face-off among large military contractors, the Boeing Company  was
picked by the Homeland Security Department to lead a high-tech effort to secure
borders, Congressional officials who were briefed on the decision said Tuesday.

The contract will at least initially be much more limited than some industry
officials had expected, valued at $80 million instead of the $2 billion estimate
given for the six-year deal, the officials said.

Boeing will be asked to install or at least help supervise the installation of a
combination of sensors, cameras, fences, vehicle barricades and small unmanned
aerial vehicles starting near Tucson, which has some of the heaviest traffic of
illegal immigrants.

Boeing beat out teams led by Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and
Ericsson based on a plan that put far less emphasis on costly unmanned aerial
vehicles.

Wayne Esser, who led the Boeing bid, said the company's strategy focused on
coming up with a solution that could be expanded to all 7,500 miles of the
United States border without compromising the ability of the Homeland Security
Department to pay for its many antiterrorism initiatives.

''This is not a Department of Defense type of procurement,'' Mr. Esser said in
an interview before his company was notified of its selection. ''Customs and
Border Protection just doesn't have that kind of a budget.''

The program, the Secure Border Initiative, is a central element of the Bush
administration's plan to curtail illegal immigration. The president also wants a
temporary-worker program to give legal standing to many illegal immigrants
already in this country.

The Senate may vote as early as Wednesday on bills to direct the department to
build a 700-mile two-layer fence between Mexico and the United States, about a
third of the shared border. The House has passed the proposal.

Such a fence could require fewer of the high-tech measures that Boeing would
provide.

Because major gaps on that border would remain and because there are no plans
for a large-scale fence along the Canadian border, the alternative methods of
monitoring thousands of miles would continue to be necessary.

Under the Boeing plan, towers would be built along the border with radar systems
to watch for movement, as well as cameras that could zoom in on movements to
determine whether the subject was a vehicle, animals or people.

Ground sensors to detect movement, sound or simply contact would be installed,
particularly where tree coverage makes the radar and cameras less effective, Mr.
Esser said.

Northrop Grumman had proposed using an unmanned aerial vehicle, a drone known as
the Global Hawk, that flies as high as 65,000 feet for up to 34 hours, to help
monitor the border. Each vehicle can cost tens of millions of dollars.

Lockheed Martin had proposed using, among other tools, a high-altitude balloon
known as a tethered aerostat that flies at up to 15,000 feet and, weather
permitting, can be left up for a long time.

The Boeing proposal includes small, relatively inexpensive unmanned aerial
vehicles that can be launched from a pickup truck by an agent in the field and
then fly for, perhaps, 90 minutes. These vehicles could help apprehend illegal
immigrants, but they would not be routinely used to monitor large stretches of
the border.

The Boeing team also looked for ways to reduce the cost of sending out Border
Patrol agents, by figuring out how long it could allow illegal immigrants, even
after they have been detected across the border, to continue walking or driving
before it would be necessary to seize them.

''We don't have to pick them up in the desert,'' Mr. Esser said. ''We can pick
them up once they reach the road.''

The contract could still turn into a deal worth up to $2 billion for Boeing over
the next six years.

Winning this contract will help the company sell its services to other countries
looking to secure their borders.

Among contractors, this was considered one of the three most important contracts
offered by the Homeland Security Department. The others involved rebuilding the
Coast Guard fleet of ships, helicopters and planes and creating a tracking
system for visitors who enter the United States legally.

Members of Congress have expressed some skepticism about whether the department
will be able to succeed in this border effort because of the failure of previous
ones.

''Achieving operational control of both the northern and southern border --
nearly 7,500 miles -- within five years is an enormous, but important,
undertaking,'' Representative Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky, said
Tuesday. ''Huge technical, geographic and personnel challenges remain.

''Nevertheless, my colleagues and I are prepared to give D.H.S. the resources it
needs -- provided funding is linked to results -- to get the job done.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Senators Criticize Border Security Measures

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 154 words


The Republican architects of the Senate immigration bill criticized the border
security measures under consideration in Congress as piecemeal and inadequate.
Senators John McCain of Arizona, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and Lindsey
Graham of South Carolina said they supported border security, including a
measure to add fencing to the border with Mexico. But they said that such
measures alone would fail to deal with the illegal residence in this country of
about 11 million immigrants as well as labor shortages in particular industries.
The senators called for an approach similar to the Senate bill, which would
tighten border security, toughen penalties for employers who hire illegal
immigrants, put most illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship and create a
guest-worker plan to address labor shortages. They acknowledged that passage of
such legislation was unlikely before the elections.   RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 29, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Moves Toward Action On Fence on Mexican Border

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 713 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28


The Senate agreed on Thursday night to end debate and press ahead with a final
vote on the construction of 700 miles of fencing along the United States border
with Mexico to help stem the tide of illegal immigration.

The bill would require construction of two layers of reinforced fencing in
stretches of California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas that are considered among
the most porous parts of the 2,000-mile border with Mexico.

It would also require officials of the Department of Homeland Security to
establish ''operational control'' over all American land and sea borders by
using Border Patrol agents, fencing, satellites, cameras and unmanned aerial
vehicles. The Senate, which voted 71 to 28 to end debate, is expected to hold a
final vote on the measure by Saturday.

The fence represents one of the few elements from the broad bipartisan
immigration measure approved by the Senate in May to win support from House
Republicans, who passed their own fencing bill this month. The Senate bill also
provided for the creation of a guest worker program and the legalization of most
of the nation's illegal immigrants, measures hailed by President Bush.

House Republicans rejected that approach, refusing to consider any bill that
could be called amnesty for illegal immigrants, and choosing instead to focus on
toughening border security.

On Thursday, the Republican architects of the Senate bill -- including Senators
John McCain of Arizona, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Mel Martinez of
Florida and Chuck Hagel of Nebraska -- supported the decision to bring the
fencing measure to a final vote. The lawmakers, who still favor the legalization
of illegal immigrants, have said they view the fence as one step toward
achieving their broader legislative goals.

One Republican, Senator Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, voted against shutting
off debate on the fence. Eighteen Democrats voted in favor of it.

Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, described the vote as a crucial
effort toward stopping the flood of illegal immigrants pouring into the United
States.

''We know that fencing works,'' Mr. Sessions said. ''It's time to make it a
reality. Then we'll have some credibility with the American people. Then we can
talk comprehensively about how to fix an absolutely broken immigration system.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, derided the bill as ''a
good-feel, bumper-sticker vote'' intended to energize conservative voters before
the midterm elections. He noted that nearly half of the illegal immigrants in
the country entered the country legally, without sneaking across the Mexican
border, and overstayed their visas.

''This is a waste of money,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''It isn't going to work, and
it's going to be enormously costly.''

The fence is one of several border security measures the Senate hopes to pass
this week before Congress recesses to campaign for the Nov. 7 elections. On
Monday, House and Senate negotiators agreed to provide $1.2 billion for several
hundred miles of fencing as part of a $34.8 billion spending plan for the
Department of Homeland Security for the coming year.

The border security spending is one of several major policy initiatives that
Congressional leaders decided to insert into the annual appropriations bill. It
includes money to hire 1,500 new Border Patrol agents, increasing the force to
14,800, and to add 6,700 detention beds. The $1.2 billion for border security is
designated for a traditional fence, vehicle barriers and a so-called virtual
fence, which includes lighting, cameras and ground sensors.

The fence would be built near Tecate, Mexico, and Calexico, Calif.; Columbus,
N.M.; and El Paso, Del Rio, Eagle Pass, Laredo and Brownsville in Texas.

Senators still sparred late into the night on Thursday, however, over two
amendments to the fencing measure.

One amendment, proposed by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas,
would require the Department of Homeland Security to work with state and local
officials in border states to determine where the fencing should be.

The second amendment, proposed by Mr. Martinez, would give the secretary of
homeland security greater flexibility in determining when operational control of
the borders is achieved.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Amnesty Trap

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 508 words


When the week began, it looked almost as if it was time to celebrate a
springtime blossoming of good sense in Washington. The Senate appeared to be
closing in on solid bipartisan support for a comprehensive overhaul of the
nation's immigration system. That meant adopting an approach that has been on
the table for months in a bill offered last year by Senators John McCain and
Edward Kennedy, then revised and passed last month by the Senate Judiciary
Committee. It combines, sensibly, tighter borders with a path to citizenship for
people here illegally.

The bill's opponents, including the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, had long
derided the multifaceted strategy as ''amnesty,'' but over the weekend even Mr.
Frist appeared to have a light bulb go off. On a talk show and in a news
release, he recast his definition of the word in a way that seemed to justify
allowing at least some of the nation's 11 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants to get in line for green cards.

But it is too soon to exhale. The Judiciary Committee's bill apparently remains
stuck in the amnesty trap. While it has enough votes to pass, it may not have
enough to avoid a filibuster by hard-core Republicans. For them, anything other
than punishment and border enforcement smacks unforgivably of forgiveness.

Now Senators Mel Martinez of Florida and Chuck Hagel of Nebraska are offering a
''fallback'' compromise if the committee bill fails. They would not eliminate
the citizenship track, but narrow it severely. Immigrants who have been here at
least five years could apply, but those who arrived more recently would be
treated more harshly. The details were unclear yesterday, but the newcomers
might either have to leave the country to apply for citizenship, or do so from a
border city, like El Paso.

Arbitrarily separating the illegal immigrant population with a five-year rule
would be cruel. Inviting millions of them to report to be deported would be
utterly unfeasible. And turning El Paso into the ''Go'' square in Monopoly would
just be stupid. It would add a meaningless hurdle to a citizenship obstacle
course that is already long and difficult. All it would do is give a face-saving
assurance to hard-liners that immigrants would suffer adequately for their green
cards and allow Republicans to reassure suspicious constituents: this is so not
amnesty.

Half-measures and semantic trickery are not what's needed now. This country has
been on a long and improbable path to immigration reform. The more it has
wrestled with the issue, the more distance has grown between the thoughtful
Americans and the nativists who long for a Great Wall of Mexico, or for a
two-tiered nation of citizens and of immigrant hired hands, free to toil forever
as guest workers but never to fully join our society.

The Martinez-Hagel compromise is a bad idea. It's tempting to think flawed
reform is better than none, but the wiser approach is to stand firm for what Mr.
Kennedy has called ''the real enchilada.'' We need to get it right this time,
once and for all.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Republicans Strike Immigration Deal

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5


A group of Senate Republicans reached agreement Wednesday night on a compromise
proposal that they hope can garner bipartisan support and bring passage of a
bill on the future of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants.

The compromise, which followed a day of negotiations, was endorsed by Senator
Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader. But it did not have the commitment
of all Republicans, much less Democrats who have backed an approach that would
put nearly all illegal immigrants on a path toward citizenship.

As outlined by Senate Republicans late Wednesday, the compromise would place
illegal immigrants in three categories:

Those who have lived in the country at least five years would be put on a path
toward guaranteed citizenship, provided that they remained employed, paid fines
and back taxes, and learned English, a senior Republican aide said. The aide
said this group accounted for about 7 million of the roughly 11 million illegal
immigrants believed to be living here.

Those who have lived here for two to five years, said to number about three
million, would have to leave the country briefly before reporting to an American
port of entry, where they would be classified as temporary workers. They would
be allowed to apply for citizenship but would have no guarantee of obtaining it.
Those who did not would have to leave after participating in the temporary
worker program for six years.

The remaining one million or so, those who have lived in the country less than
two years, would be required to leave. They could apply for temporary worker
status but would not be guaranteed it.

Senators of both parties and their aides huddled in meetings throughout the day,
trying to hash out a deal by week's end, the deadline set by Mr. Frist for a
vote on an immigration bill. For the first time, senior Democrats, including
Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois,
joined in the negotiations, an acknowledgment that they lacked the backing to
get a vote on broader legalization.

The Senate will decide on Friday whether the compromise should be considered for
a vote. But lawmakers, who gave impassioned partisan speeches on the floor,
remained deadlocked over its details late Wednesday. Senators warned that if the
negotiations collapsed, Congress might fail to take action this year on an issue
that has riveted the nation and pushed tens of thousands of immigrants and their
supporters into the streets for rallies across the country.

Mr. Frist placed blame for the stalemate on Democrats, who refused to allow
Republicans to vote on major amendments and have used a parliamentary tactic
that will force lawmakers to decide Thursday whether the bill more favorable to
illegal immigrants should be considered for a floor vote.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority leader, blamed the Republicans,
saying they had continued to ''stonewall'' by seeking to pass amendments that
would gut that broad legalization bill, approved by the Judiciary Committee last
week with bipartisan support.

As the party leaders pointed fingers, Senator John McCain, Republican of
Arizona, rose on the floor and pleaded with his colleagues to come together to
prevent a rare opportunity from slipping away.

''This is one of the greatest challenges we face in our time, securing our
borders, taking 11 million people out of the shadows who are exploited every
day, fulfilling the job requirements we all know are necessary to ensure the
economic future,'' Mr. McCain said.

''Americans are passionate in general,'' he said, ''but this issue has brought
passion few of us have seen in this country -- in Los Angeles, New York City and
around the nation. It seems we owe every American a resolution to this issue.
Could we please move forward?''

President Bush, who met with Republican Congressional leaders on Wednesday, also
pressed the Senate to move ahead. ''I strongly urge them to come to a conclusion
as quickly as possible and pass a comprehensive bill,'' the president said.

Republicans said the compromise, whose prominent backers include Mr. McCain and
Senators Mel Martinez of Florida and Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, would attract
votes from their members who are uncomfortable with broader legalization. But
the compromise cannot pass without the support of Democrats, who said they were
still weighing their options.

''Aren't we entitled to at least a chance to have a vote on a comprehensive
approach?'' Mr. Kennedy said.

There were signs, though, that some of Mr. Kennedy's allies among business and
immigrant advocacy groups were throwing their support behind the compromise
proposal.

The leaders of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, which represents
hotels, restaurants and other service industries, said a limited legalization
would be better than a bill that focused solely on tightening border security.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush walking past the Oval Office after telling
reporters yesterday that the Senate should move forward on an immigration bill.
But by day's end, there was still a deadlock on details of a crucial provision.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SENATE DEAL SET FOR IMMIGRATION, BUT THEN FALTERS

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6


Senate leaders reached agreement Thursday on a broad, bipartisan compromise that
would put the vast majority of the nation's estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants on a path to citizenship, but its prospects for passage grew more
uncertain as Republicans and Democrats clashed late into the night over
parliamentary procedure.

Both sides said that without a quick resolution of the differences they would
not have a vote on the final legislation before Congress leaves for its spring
recess on Friday, raising the possibility that the painstakingly negotiated
compromise might unravel as it is exposed to intense political scrutiny during
the two-week Congressional break.

The plan would create a temporary worker program that would allow 325,000
foreigners to fill jobs in the United States each year. And, if passed, it would
mark the most sweeping immigration accord in two decades.

The late-night battle burst into the open many hours after Senate leaders had
resolved their substantive differences over the thorny question of legalization.
Conservatives, who condemned the compromise as little more than amnesty for
lawbreakers, sought to offer amendments to the bill. But Democrats refused to
allow votes on the amendments, saying they were intended to delay the process
and gut the legislation.

And as members of the two parties took to the Senate floor to accuse each other
of trying to derail the legislation, negotiators warned that the failure to
resolve the procedural disagreements was jeopardizing what everyone described as
a substantive agreement.

''The fact that we did not act tonight is a huge blow,'' said Senator John
McCain, Republican of Arizona, and a main architect of the deal.

Under the Senate agreement, illegal immigrants who have lived in the United
States for five years or more, about seven million people, would eventually be
granted citizenship if they remained employed, had background checks, paid fines
and back taxes and learned English.

Illegal immigrants who have lived here for two to five years, about three
million people, would have to travel to a United States border crossing and
apply for a temporary work visa. They would be eligible for permanent residency
and citizenship over time, but they would have to wait several years longer for
it.

Illegal immigrants who have been here less than two years, about one million
people, would be required to leave the country altogether. They could apply for
spots in the temporary worker program, but they would not be guaranteed
positions.

President Bush praised the Senate's efforts and urged lawmakers ''to work hard
and get the bill done'' before the recess.

And Republican and Democratic leaders, who had battled so bitterly on Wednesday
that an agreement seemed in jeopardy, stood side by side on Thursday morning,
hailing the deal as a historic decision that would enhance national security by
bringing illegal immigrants out of the shadows while meeting the nation's needs
for labor.

Flanked by more than a dozen Republican and Democratic lawmakers, Senator Bill
Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, stood before a crush of television
cameras on Thursday morning and called the compromise ''a huge breakthrough.''

But as the day wore on, tensions began to rise as Republicans insisted that the
Democrats allow a vote on several of their amendments.

One amendment would require the Department of Homeland Security to certify that
the border was secure before creating a guest worker program or granting legal
status to illegal immigrants. Another would have the legalization program bar
illegal immigrants who had deportation orders or had been convicted of a felony
or three misdemeanors. Democratic critics of the proposals said they were
intended to ensure that the legalization process would never be implemented.

Republican supporters of the compromise, including Mr. McCain, said he and
others would easily vote down such amendments if they were brought to a vote.

Meanwhile, Democrats said they were still awaiting detailed assurances from Mr.
Frist and others that Republicans would defend the agreement in the face of
strong conservative opposition when House and Senate negotiators sit down to
reconcile their bills.

Any immigration bill that passes the Senate must first be reconciled with the
tough border security bill that passed the House in December. And House
conservatives warned on Thursday that they would reject the Senate compromise.
Republicans and Democrats alike agreed that the compromise measure would pass
easily if lawmakers were allowed to vote for it. But parliamentary procedures
allow even a small number of senators to prevent a vote from occurring before
the spring recess.

''Here we are now and we have made absolutely no progress,'' said Mr. Frist,
taking to the Senate floor.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, countered that Republicans
seemed intent on bogging down the process with countless amendments.
"Republicans seem intent on delaying and defeating this compromise,'' Mr. Reid
said.

In recent weeks, both parties have been under pressure to pass legislation that
would resolve the fate of the 11 million or so illegal immigrants in the United
States. President Bush has raised the issue, business groups have lobbied
fiercely for it, and tens of thousands of immigrants and their supporters
nationwide have poured into the streets, reflecting the growing political muscle
of Hispanics.

But the debate has deeply divided the Republican Party, and conservatives warned
on Thursday that the Senate compromise sounded too similar to the amnesty
enacted by President Ronald Reagan in 1986, which granted legal status to nearly
three million illegal immigrants.

''This compromise would repeat the mistakes of the past, but on a much larger
scale because 12 million illegal immigrants would still be placed on an easier
path to citizenship,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senate leaders, including Bill Frist, left, the majority leader,
and Harry Reid, third from left, the Democratic leader, announced a precarious
deal on immigration legislation yesterday. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New
York Times)(pg. A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Rally in Scores of Cities for Legal Status

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS; Reporting for this article was contributed by
Helena Andrews in Washington, Chris Burbach in Omaha, Cindy Chang in Los
Angeles, Thayer Evans in Houston, Paul Giblin in Phoenix, Brenda Goodman in
Atlanta, Barbara Miner in Madison, Wis., Gretchen Ruethling in Chicago and Nina
Siegal in New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE
OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 10


Waving American flags and blue banners that read ''We Are America,'' throngs of
cheering, chanting immigrants and their supporters converged on the nation's
capital and in scores of other cities on Monday calling on Congress to offer
legal status and citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants.

The demonstrators marched under mostly clear blue skies with Spanish-language
music blaring, street vendors selling ice cream and parents clinging to
mischievous toddlers and the banners of their homelands.

The rallies, whose mood was largely festive rather than angry, were the latest
in recent weeks in response to a bill passed in the House that would speed up
deportations, tighten border security and criminalize illegal immigrants. A
proposal that would have given most illegal immigrants a chance to become
citizens collapsed in the Senate last week.

But Monday's gathering of tens of thousands of demonstrators in New York;
Atlanta; Houston; Madison, Wis., and other cities also suggested that the
millions of immigrants who have quietly poured into this country over the past
16 years, most of them Hispanic, may be emerging as a potent political force.

Over and over again, construction workers, cooks, gardeners, sales associates
and students who said they had never demonstrated before said they were rallying
to send a message to the nation's lawmakers.

Ruben Arita, a 30-year-old illegal immigrant from Honduras who joined the
demonstration in Washington, said he was marching for the first time because he
wanted to push Congress to grant citizenship to people living here illegally and
to recognize their struggles and their humanity.

''We want to be legal,'' said Mr. Arita, a construction worker who has lived
here for five years. ''We want to live without hiding, without fear. We have to
speak so that our voices are listened to and we are taken into account.''

Academics and political analysts say the demonstrations represent the largest
effort by immigrants to influence public policy in recent memory. And the scope
and size of the marches have astonished politicians on Capitol Hill as well as
the churches and immigrant advocacy groups organizing the demonstrations,
leading some immigrant advocates to hail what they describe as the beginnings of
a new, largely Hispanic civil rights movement.

Some Republicans in Congress say the rallieshave also recalibrated the debate on
immigration legislation, forcing lawmakers to consider the group's political
muscle.

''Immigrants are coming together in a way that we have never seen before, and
it's going to keep going,'' said Jaime Contreras, the president of the National
Capital Immigration Coalition, a group of business, labor and immigrant advocacy
groups that organized the demonstration in Washington and helped coordinate the
other national protests.

''This is a movement,'' said Mr. Contreras, who came to the United States from
El Salvador as an illegal immigrant and is now a citizen. ''We're sending a
strong message that we are people of dignity. All that we want is to have a shot
at the American dream.''

Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, who favors granting citizenship to
illegal immigrants, said Monday: ''I think everybody sees the immigrant
community as an emerging force. I think everybody is quite sensitive that they
don't want to be on the wrong side, politically, of this group.''

But political analysts say it is not clear whether the fervor on the streets
will translate immediately into a force at the ballot box.

In the 2004 presidential election, 18 percent of Hispanics voted, compared with
51 percent of whites and 39 percent of blacks, according to a study conducted by
the Pew Hispanic Center. That reflects, in part, the large numbers of illegal
immigrants, permanent residents and children under 18 in the Hispanic community
who are unable to vote. But turnout has traditionally been low even among
Hispanics registered to vote.

President Bush has called on Congress to create a temporary work program that
would legalize millions of immigrants.

The demonstrations, while cheered by advocates for immigrants, have meanwhile
fueled a sharp response from critics who have expressed outrage at the images of
immigrants, some of them illegal, demanding changes in American laws.

Talk of the marches has been burning up the airwaves on talk radio and cable
news networks and has appeared in Internet blogs and conservative publications.
Rich Lowry, the editor of National Review, described the protests with marchers
carrying foreign flags as ''ominous'' in ''their hint of a large, unassimilated
population existing outside America's laws and exhibiting absolutely no
sheepishness about it.''

Brit Hume, the news anchor on Fox News, described the marchers, particularly
those carrying Mexican flags, as ''a repellent spectacle.''

But Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, warned that
politicians who chose to alienate this group did so at their own peril.

''I understand clearly that the demographic changes are real in America and how
we handle this issue in terms of fairness will be very important for the future
of both parties,'' Mr. Graham said Monday. ''Those who believe that they have no
political vulnerability for the moment don't understand the future.''

The organizers of the protests called Monday a National Day of Action for
Immigrant Justice, and the focus was on pushing for legislation that would
legalize the roughly 11 million illegal immigrants believed to be living in the
United States. And in Atlanta, where the police estimated that 30,000 to 40,000
people participated in the rallies, some marchers invoked the tactics and
slogans of the civil rights era. Fabian Rodriguez, a 38-year-old illegal
immigrant from Mexico, said he was tired of living in fear of being deported.

''We are in the situation that Rosa Parks was in several years ago,'' said Mr.
Rodriguez, who works in the landscaping business. ''Enough is enough.''

In Houston, where thousands of immigrants chanted ''U.S.A.! U.S.A.!'' as they
rallied, Staff Sgt. Jose Soto of the Marines marched in his blue uniform. He
said he had fought in Iraq and was in Houston to visit his parents, who came to
this country as illegal immigrants.

''I've fought for freedom overseas,'' said Sergeant Soto, 30, who plans to
return to Iraq in July. ''Now I'm fighting for freedom here.''

In Madison, the crowds of demonstrators stretched nearly a mile as protesters
headed to the Capitol. Maria Camacho, a 51-year-old Mexican immigrant, attended
the march with her husband and daughter. Wearing a white sweater with an
American flag, she held up a sign that read, ''No human being is illegal.''

No rally was more diverse than New York's, where the thousands who converged at
City Hall Park were greeted in Spanish, Chinese, French and Korean, and heard
invocations by a rabbi and the leader of a Buddhist temple.

''We are inseparable, indivisible and impossible to take out of America,''
Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, told a
spirited crowd that included hotel housekeepers from El Salvador, Senegalese
street vendors, Chinese restaurant workers and Mexican laborers.

In Washington, demonstrators carried children on their shoulders, ate popcorn
and draped themselves in the banners of their homelands as they cheered Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who told them that the Rev. Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. had spoken here in 1963, and a host of other speakers,
including John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Cardinal Theodore
E. McCarrick of Washington.

Across the street from the rally, about half a dozen people held signs that
read, ''Illegals Go Home.''

But the small counterprotest failed to douse the spirits of the demonstrators,
many of whom seemed almost giddy with their newfound sense of political power.

''Today we march,'' they chanted. ''Tomorrow we vote!''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2006



CORRECTION: A credit yesterday with a front-page article about rallies in many
cities by immigrants and their supporters misstated the surname of a
contributing reporter in New York. She was Nina Bernstein, not Siegal.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick of Washington was among the
speakers yesterday at an immigration rally on the Mall in Washington. (Photo by
Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
OAKLAND, CALIF. -- A march through the heart of the Latino community. (Photo by
Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
OMAHA -- An estimated 12,000 people demonstrated in Nebraska. (Photo by Jeff
Beiermann/Omaha World-Herald, via Associated Press)
SANTA ANA, CALIF. -- Marchers took their protest downtown. (Photo by J. Emilio
Flores for The New York Times)
FORT MYERS, FLA. -- American and Mexican flags were on display. (Photo by Nina
Greipel/Sarasota Herald-Tribune)
ATLANTA -- A rally in Georgia drew thousands of demonstrators. (Photo by Erik S.
Lesser for The New York Times)
WASHINGTON -- Protesters in the capital prepared to march to the Mall. (Photo by
Michael Temchine for The New York Times)
 PHOENIX -- Tens of thousands of people marched through downtown yesterday in a
show of support for changes in immigration policy. (Photo by Rick Scibelli Jr.
for the New York Times)(pg. A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bone for Border Hawks

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 738 words


President Bush promised tonight to regain ''full control'' of the border with
Mexico. He won't, but that's beside the point.

His job last night was not to secure the border but to pretend he could. Like
Ava Gardner tending to the germphobic Howard Hughes in his isolation chamber,
Bush had to reassure the Minuteman Republicans that they were safely sealed from
the perils outside.

''The border should be open to trade and lawful immigration, and shut to illegal
immigrants,'' he said firmly, sounding as if he believed it himself. It was
precisely the cover needed by Republicans to vote for sensible reforms.

His plan to send a few thousand National Guard troops to the border is a
symbolic gesture, but symbolism is what's needed. Immigrants will find ways to
evade the proposed new ID card requirements, as well as the new high-tech
sensors at the border, but the ideas sounded good enough on television. Bush's
conservative critics accused him of playing politics, but he was just responding
in kind to their tactics.

The fixation on defending the border is a political -- and psychological --
problem, not a rational response to a genuine national threat. People living
along the border understandably object to strangers' sneaking through their
backyard, but why are so many people in the rest of the country obsessed with
keeping out foreigners?

The border hawks have two chief arguments, starting with that great debate
stopper: Sept. 11. A porous southern border is supposedly no longer tolerable
now that terrorists have declared war on America and are threatening even more
catastrophic attacks.

But if terrorists are smart enough to plan such an attack, they're smart enough
to get into the United States, no matter how many agents and troops are on the
Mexican border. If terrorists have the determination to train for years, if they
can pay for flight lessons or anthrax or a nuclear bomb, then they can easily
bribe or forge their way into America -- or waltz in with legitimate visas.

Mohamed Atta did not have to hire a coyote or swim across the Rio Grande. He and
the other hijackers entered the country legally. The 500,000 or so people who
manage to sneak in from Mexico each year are a minuscule fraction -- about 1
percent -- of the tourists and students and other visitors who enter America
legally.

Mexico is not the preferred route of the suspected terrorists caught so far
because they prefer more convenient options, like the Canadian border. Even if
the northern border were sealed with the Great Wall of Saskatchewan, there would
still be thousands of miles of unsecured coastline -- and plenty of drug runners
with boats and planes who would have no trouble delivering a terrorist or a
suitcase bomb.

The border hawks' other argument is that America must enforce its immigration
law or succumb to ''mob rule,'' as one of the Minuteman leaders warned. But for
most of the country's history, America allowed essentially unlimited immigration
without descending into Hobbesian chaos. The country survived just fine when
immigrants were governed solely by the law of supply and demand.

Bush tried a brief dose of economic reality in last night's speech, pointing out
that the lure of America for poor Mexican workers ''creates enormous pressure on
our border that walls and patrols alone will not stop.'' As he explained, the
way to reduce illegal immigration is to change the law so more people can enter
legally.

But that was the rational part of the speech, which Bush knew wasn't enough.

He had to throw in the tough border talk and the ID cards. He had to deal with
the new outbreak of xenophobia, the fear that has always been easy for
demagogues to arouse because it's such a basic human instinct.

Distrusting foreigners made evolutionary sense when outside clans threatened to
bring in disease and encroach on hunting grounds. It made sense during the
thousands of years when towns built walls to stop invaders from plundering their
wealth and enslaving their inhabitants.

But the immigrants now coming across the Mexican border do not want to sack our
cities. They're not about to pillage our granaries or march home with Americans
in chains. They just want to mow our lawns and clean our offices.

They're coming to feed us, not take our food, yet we're demanding that our
leaders keep them out. No Mexican busboys! No Guatemalan cooks! Stop them before
they grill again!

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

PRESIDENT CALLS FOR COMPROMISE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; David S. Cloud and Carl Hulse contributed reporting
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATON DEBATE: THE
OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 15


President Bush proposed a plan on Monday that could place up to 6,000 National
Guard troops along the border with Mexico for at least a year, but he urged
Congress to address illegal immigration in a way that maintains the nation's
tradition of openness.

Stepping directly into the middle of a debate raging within his own party and in
cities and towns across the country, Mr. Bush offered a menu of proposals on the
issue, which has rapidly emerged as among the most challenging confronting
Congress and the White House.

They were intended both to salve conservatives who have demanded concrete steps
to stem the flow of illegal workers across the border and to accommodate many
members of both parties and business groups who are seeking new ways of
acknowledging the presence of an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the
United States.

''America needs to conduct this debate on immigration in a reasoned and
respectful tone,'' Mr. Bush said in his address, carried by all of the major
broadcast and cable news networks. ''We cannot build a unified country by
inciting people to anger, or playing on anyone's fears or exploiting the issue
of immigration for political gain.'' [Excerpts, Page A22.]

Mr. Bush combined a call for considerable increases in the number of border
patrol agents and the number of beds in immigration detention centers with an
endorsement of proposals that would give many illegal immigrants a chance to
become legal and eventually gain citizenship.

He reiterated his proposal for a guest worker program giving some immigrants the
right to work here temporarily. But he also proposed to strengthen enforcement
by creating an identification card system for foreign workers that would include
digitized fingerprints.

Mr. Bush made his proposals in a 17-minute address from the Oval Office that
aides described as a bid to assert presidential leadership at a critical
juncture for his administration, which has been beset by political troubles.
They said he also wanted to complete an overhaul of immigration policy, an issue
that has exploded in recent months into a passionate argument about national
identity, economic needs and social strains.

The centerpiece of Mr. Bush's speech was his proposal to deploy the National
Guard troops in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. Under the plan, 6,000
National Guard members would be deployed at any one time, with units rotating in
and out every two or three weeks, coinciding with their annual training
routines.

The Guard forces would be under the control of governors in the states, who
would have sign on to the plan, but the costs of their deployment would be
picked up by the federal government. The numbers of Guard troops deployed on the
border would decline after a year, the president said, as the Border Patrol put
more agents in the field.

Mr. Bush said the National Guard would not conduct law enforcement operations,
but would support the Border Patrol with intelligence, surveillance and other
activities.

He did not put specific price tags on the proposals he set out in his speech,
which he delivered briskly and intently from behind his desk in the Oval Office,
a setting that he has reserved until now for national addresses on war and
national security.

White House officials said in a briefing for reporters Monday afternoon that the
president was calling for $1.9 billion included in a supplemental budget bill
now before Congress to be used for his proposals.

Some of the border state governors, Democrats in Congress, and others
immediately raised questions about the practicality of the plan. Mr. Bush's
broad approach also drew tepid reviews from some House Republicans and
conservatives, whose support he will need as he grapples with a problem that has
defied decades of proposed solutions: the continued economic imbalances between
the United States and its trading partners to the south.

The reactions underscored the slender line the president is trying to walk
between not only Democrats and warring members of his own party who are trying
to hammer out legislation, but also between the increasingly powerful Hispanic
voters he hopes to recruit to his party and the conservatives who still form its
base.

On Monday, the Senate for a second time this year began debating legislation
providing for enhanced border security but also a guest worker program and
options for citizenship. Should the bill win approval, as Senate leaders
predict, it will fall to Mr. Bush to help broker a compromise between that
legislation and a competing bill approved by the House in December that would
make it a felony to be in this country illegally.

The president's speech was devised in large part to allay the concerns of House
Republicans that the White House is insufficiently concerned about border
security and too willing to contemplate legal status for illegal immigrants. Mr.
Bush stressed compromise.

''These are not contradictory goals: America can be a lawful society and a
welcoming society at the same time,'' he said.

He said he was not endorsing an automatic path to citizenship, adding, ''That
would be amnesty.''

But, Mr. Bush said, it was not granting amnesty to allow illegal immigrants who
have been here for several years -- working, paying taxes and learning English
-- to get in the back of the citizenship line after paying a hefty fine and back
taxes.

The White House has signaled general support for the proposal being considered
in the Senate to distinguish between immigrants who have been in the country
less than two years, those in the country less than five years and those who
have been in the United States for longer.

''Some in this country argue that the solution is to deport every illegal
immigrant and that any proposal short of this amounts to amnesty,'' Mr. Bush
said. ''I disagree.''

Some Republicans in the House indicated an unwillingness to back down from their
insistence on enforcement-only legislation after the address.

''While I appreciate the president's willingness to tackle big problems,''
Representative Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, the House majority whip, said
in a statement after the speech, ''I have real concerns about moving forward
with a guest worker program or a plan to address those currently in the United
States illegally until we have adequately addressed our serious border security
problems.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has been deeply
involved in the Senate negotiations on immigration, praised Mr. Bush ''for his
courage,'' but said he was worried the National Guard was already spread too
thin.

But among the most important voices will be those of the governors of the four
states abutting the southern border: Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and California.
It falls to them to make the plan for deploying the guard work.

Administration officials said governors would have to ask for the Guard troops,
and are free to decline them. And, officials said governors would often have to
ask for National Guard troops from fellow governors in nonborder states, who
could also say no.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican, called the plan a
''Band-Aid solution'' in a statement Monday night and complained that he had not
been fully consulted.

Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat, said the plan fell short. ''The
president is putting the onus on border governors to work out the details and
resolve the problems with this plan,'' Mr. Richardson said in a statement.

Gov.Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat, was generally supportive the plan.
. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas also voiced support.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Photographers gathered around President Bush in the Oval Office
yesterday after his televised speech. ''America needs to conduct this debate on
immigration in a reasoned and respectful tone,'' Mr. Bush said. (Photo by Doug
Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 President Bush after addressing the nation last night. (Photo by Doug Mills/The
New York Times)(pg. A1) Chart: ''Proposals for Immigration Overhaul''GUEST
WORKER PROGRAMBill passed in the HouseNo such provisions. Eliminates the
Diversity Visa Lottery Program, which makes 50,000 visas available in a lottery
to people from countries with low rates of immigration to the United States.Bill
debated in the SenateCreates a temporary worker program, with a potential path
to legal permanent residence for individuals currently outside the United
States. Employers seeking to hire foreign workers would first have to try to
recruit an available American worker.President Bush's remarks last night''I
support a temporary worker program that would create a legal path for foreign
workers to enter our country in an orderly way, for a limited period of time.
This program would match willing foreign workers with willing American employers
for jobs Americans are not doing.''LEGALIZATION OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTSBill passed
in the HouseNo such provisions.Bill debated in the SenateProvides legalization
criteria for three different groups. The major path, the ''Earned Legalization
Program,'' would provide an avenue to legal permanent residence for undocumented
immigrants who have been in the U.S. for five years, have been employed for
three of those years and have met other requirements.President Bush's remarks
last night''They should not be given an automatic path to citizenship. This is
amnesty, and I oppose it.  There is a rational middle ground between granting an
automatic path to citizenship for every illegal immigrant and a program of mass
deportation.''WORK-SITE ENFORCEMENTBill passed in the HouseRequires employers to
participate in an electronic employment eligibility verification system within
three to six years.Bill debated in the SenateRequires employers to participate
in a similar system within 18 months.President Bush's remarks last
night''Immigration reform must include a better system for verifying documents
and work eligibility.  A tamperproof card would help us enforce the law -- and
leave employers with no excuse for violating it.''CRIMINAL PENALTIESBill passed
in the HouseMakes it a federal crime to live in the United States illegally.
Individuals who help illegal immigrants to enter or stay in the country would
also face criminal penalties.Bill debated in the SenateMandates penalties for
smuggling immigrants, but offers an exception for those who provide
''humanitarian'' assistance to immigrants, including medical care and
housing.BORDER SECURITYBill passed in the HouseRequires the construction of ''at
least two layers of reinforced fencing'' as well as ''physical barriers, roads,
lighting, cameras and sensors'' along about 700 miles of the U.S.-Mexico
border.Hire more Border Patrol agents ''as expeditiously as possible,'' adding
to the current force of nearly 12,000 agents. Hires at least 250 active duty
port of entry inspectors for each of the next three years.Bill debated in the
SenateAlso calls for ''double- or triple-layered fencing'' but only to replace
''aged, deteriorating or damaged primary fencing'' in Arizona.Increases the
number of Border Patrol agents by 2,400 each year through 2011. Calls for at
least 500 active duty port of entry inspectors to be hired in each of the next
three years.President Bush's remarks last night''By the end of 2008, we will
increase the number of Border Patrol officers by an additional 6,000.  In
coordination with governors, up to 6,000 Guard members will be deployed to our
southern border.  The Guard will assist the Border Patrol by operating
surveillance systems, analyzing intelligence, installing fences and vehicle
barriers, building patrol roads and providing training.''(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Making It Ashore, but Still Chasing U.S. Dream

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1867 words


They all journeyed to America on the Golden Venture, a rusty freighter crammed
with 286 Chinese immigrants when it ran aground off Queens on the night of June
6, 1993.

But a father of three who was seeking asylum from China's one-child policy was
deported back and forcibly sterilized. A teenager seeking adventure became a
United States citizen, proud owner of a New Jersey restaurant praised for its
translucent dumplings. And a man who swam the last 300 yards through cold, rough
surf was suddenly ordered a decade later to report for deportation, with a
warning to bring no more than 44 pounds of luggage, though by then he had his
own business and two children born in New York.

Almost 13 years after the Golden Venture shuddered to a stop and set off a
national argument about illegal immigration, the last of its smugglers has just
been sent to prison, as the debate rages anew. Ten passengers died that night in
a frantic swim for freedom; six of those who made it to shore escaped without a
trace. But for the rest, their journeys are still unfolding in widely disparate
ways, buffeted by the shifting rules and often arbitrary results of America's
immigration wars.

Whether they had come to escape persecution or just to seek a better life,
nearly all were detained and quickly ordered deported, as the Clinton
administration reversed previous practice in an effort to deter illegal
immigrants and their smugglers. Yet today, a great majority of the Golden
Venture passengers are living and working in the United States, most with no
certainty that they can stay. Of the 110 who were actually deported, often after
years in detention, at least half have returned illegally, including the father
of three who was sterilized.

And as Congress again grapples with how to turn back illegal immigrants and deal
with those already here, the passengers' fates show the limits of enforcement
and the far-reaching human consequences of any new twist or turn in the
immigration system.

Although the details and whereabouts of many of the Golden Venture passengers
remain sketchy, interviews with passengers, lawyers and longtime activists in
the case, and a documentary filmmaker who spent two years tracking their
experiences, paint a picture of bittersweet striving against a backdrop of
growing insecurity.

They are scattered from Brooklyn to Austin, Tex., and Greensboro, Ga., and even
some without legal status have worked their way up from delivering Chinese
takeout to owning their own businesses and homes. Some have American-born
children with names like Steven, Wendy and Jack. Others, still renting bunk
beds, faithfully send money back to the families they have not seen for 15
years. Yet increasingly, they live in fear of arrest and deportation.

About 220 Golden Venture passengers are living in the United States, according
to those who have followed them most closely. Fifty-three of them were released
from prison with great fanfare in 1997, but are left, with few exceptions, in a
precarious legal limbo. Another 50 or so disappeared after being released on
bail earlier in the 1990's, while about as many have won asylum or citizenship.

An additional 60 or so who have sneaked back into the United States after being
deported include Y.C. Dong, the father who was held in a Pennsylvania prison for
three years as he appealed an immigration judge's 1993 ruling. The judge wrote
that Mr. Dong did not qualify for asylum because his fear of persecution under
China's one-child policy was only ''subjective.''

As soon as he was deported to China in 1996, Mr. Dong was detained, beaten,
fined and sterilized, he said in an account corroborated by medical tests and
court documents. He returned to America in 1999 by plane through Los Angeles
with a false passport, having borrowed $50,000 from relatives to pay smugglers
-- twice what he paid the first time -- and reapplied for asylum. So far,
however, his petitions have been automatically rejected on the ground that he
already had his day in court in 1993.

''I almost feel that my life is out of hope,'' Mr. Dong, 47, said through a
translator in a recent telephone interview from Arkansas, where he works 72
hours a week as a cook at an all-you-can-eat Chinese buffet restaurant. ''But I
still hope one day I will live freely in this country.''

Meanwhile, his second-born daughter, now 21, has opened a new chapter in the
Golden Venture odyssey, leaving the Chinese village where she said others looked
down on her impoverished family, to seek her father and her fortune in America.

Another chapter in the story was closed only last month, when a Chinatown
businesswoman who calls herself Sister Ping was sentenced to 35 years in prison
for financing the voyage.

Lin Yan Ming, 35, who swam the last 300 yards to shore, spent the next three
years and eight months in jail -- until February 1997, when President Clinton
ordered the release of the last 53 passengers still detained.

There were scenes of jubilation as Mr. Ming and others left the prison in York,
Pa., where an unlikely coalition of anti-abortion evangelicals, feminists and
volunteer lawyers had held daily vigils for their release. But after the
passengers dropped from the headlines, it became clear that most were still in
danger of deportation because the release had not given them legal status. A few
went on to win asylum, but a vast majority, including Mr. Ming, tried and
failed.

Mr. Ming went to work for take-out restaurants in a rough section of Brooklyn,
braving beatings and robberies, he said, as he saved enough to buy his own
business, marry and have two sons.

Then, seven years after his release, he received a deportation letter. It became
the catalyst for a private bill repeatedly introduced in Congress by
Representative Todd Russell Platts, a Republican of Pennsylvania, seeking
permanent legal status for 31 men in the York contingent who had not won asylum.
The bill has little chance of passing, but has provided some temporary
protection for Mr. Ming and the others.

''It's been a roller coaster,'' said Beverly Church, a former nurse who credits
her late Irish grandfather for inspiring her, a staunch Republican, to keep
fighting for the 31 men she began visiting at the York prison years ago. She
helped Peter Cohn, a documentary filmmaker, contact many of them, and on April
26, they will be reunited in New York at the Museum of Chinese in the Americas
before the film's first showing that night at the TriBeCa Film Festival.

All 31 have been vetted at least twice by the Department of Homeland Security,
the local police, the F.B.I. and Interpol, Ms. Church pointed out, sharing a
book compiled from the official immigration reports on each man, and the
handwritten notes and color snapshots they send her.

Many show children the men left behind in China, and cannot visit. Some are
teenagers turning into grown-ups. Others are babies or toddlers, like Mr. Ming's
sons, United States citizens who were sent back to China through intermediaries
to be raised by their grandparents until they could attend public school in the
United States.

''Initially I was having so big a hope,'' Mr. Ming said, referring to proposals
for guest-worker programs that could legalize millions of immigrants. ''But they
have been saying it for so long. It's like very big thunder, and the rain that
comes out is a small rain.''

In contrast, for a half-dozen minors on the Golden Venture who were placed in
foster care on Long Island, America soon became a safe harbor. Most of the four
or five taken into the foster home of Patricia Yacullo, in Deer Park, who were
16 or 17, won special juvenile green cards before they turned 21. Three, whom
she nicknamed Charlie,Paul and Tim, stayed with her and her husband, Tony, a
retired construction worker, until they could establish American lives.

Both Paul and Charlie, who still call Ms. Yacullo ''Mom,'' are now citizens.
Paul, originally Cheng Wu Lin, owns the Red Lantern Restaurant and Tea Bar in
Cherry Hill, N.J., which serves a hot and sour soup that a New York Times food
critic found ''ethereal.'' He is now president of a company with a second Red
Lantern in Chicago, and plans for a chain.

Charlie, or Si Lun Cheng, has a wholesale handbag business on West 29th Street
in Manhattan. On holidays he takes his two children to visit Ms. Yacullo, 66,
who is diabetic and legally blind.

''She treat me like her own kids,'' said Mr. Cheng, his eyes glistening as he
stood among cartons of handbags from China. After working in a garment factory
and in a post office, he went into business for himself, and recently bought his
first home in Bayside, Queens, where he and his wife sought good schools for
their son, 7, and daughter, 5.

''My son speak full English,'' he said proudly, glancing at his parents, who
speak only Chinese, but have helped keep the store open seven days a week since
he sponsored them to join him two years ago.

Yet even in this lucky group, some lost out. Ms. Yacullo laments that the young
man she calls Tim turned 21 before his green card came through. Despite her
payments to several lawyers, she said, he is stranded without legal status, with
no road to citizenship and no way to reunite his family. Still, she added, he
owns a restaurant in Georgia, is married and has American children.

''He's done great,'' she said. ''We need more kids like that.''

Back in China's Fujian province, being the child of a Golden Venture passenger
was a misfortune, recalled H. L. Dong, the daughter who followed her father to
the United States.

Other absent fathers soon sent money home, transforming the lives of their
families. Tile floors replaced beaten earth; daughters wore pretty clothes and
could go to high school. But her family, which had its sewing machine
confiscated when the birth-control police came looking for her father, only grew
more indebted, she said. Her father left when she was about 5, took almost three
years to reach America, and languished in detention another three.

Her journey, by air on a false passport, took only 10 days. But as her mother
feared, she was caught crossing the Mexican border. Remembering her father's
description of Chinese prison, she was pleasantly surprised. ''I was not
tortured,'' she said, looking very young in jeans and a pink top.

Relatives arranged bond, and now she waits tables 10 hours a day at a Chinese
restaurant in Maryland with a $5 all-you-can-eat lunch, trying to pay off her
$65,000 smuggling debt. Her father has worked in 10 similar restaurants in six
different states, and now, in Arkansas, he spends his day off alone, watching
TV.

For both, the only path to legal status is Mr. Dong's asylum petition, now stuck
among thousands of immigration appeals overwhelming the federal courts, said
their lawyer, Peter Lobel.

They both return when they can to New York's Chinatown, where survivors of the
Golden Venture often recognize each other in the street, and share their
experience of America.

''I just have this feeling about how America should be,'' Ms. Dong said with a
laugh. ''It should be as good as heaven. Otherwise, why do so many people want
to come here?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lin Yan Ming, a Golden Venture passenger, in Brooklyn, where he
lives above the restaurant where he works. He is trying to avoid deportation.
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
Y. C. Dong, now in Arkansas, was deported to China and forcibly sterilized. He
returned to America in 1999. (Photo by Kate Medley for The New York Times)
 Rescuers help a passenger of the Golden Venture transfer to a small boat on
June 6, 1993. (Photo by Michael Alexander/Associated Press)(pg. 34)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 143 words



To the Editor:

''It's the President's Turn'' (editorial, April 9) speaks of the need for
President Bush to lay out specifics for resolving the immigration impasse. But
it does not appear as if Mr. Bush has much, if any, credibility left -- and
certainly not in an amount sufficient to move the House or the Senate in any
particular direction.

While polls leave many basic questions unanswered, they reflect public opinion
at the moment, and in this case, a substantial majority of the public wants the
borders closed to any further illegal crossing.

Unless and until a final legislative proposal includes effective, enforceable
means of preventing illegal entry into the United States, there will not be
support by voters for any measure that offers a path to legal presence for those
who are here now illegally.

Frederick M. Reed
Vinalhaven, Me., April 9, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 169 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Across the U.S., Protests for Immigrants Draw Thousands'' (news article,
April 10):

Illegal immigrants came to the United States knowing that they could have a life
here that was better than the life in their home country. Who could blame them
for coming?

We could have enacted and enforced very tough laws with stiff fines and jail for
any who would hire them. We did not need physical fences to keep out immigrants.
If they clearly could not have earned a living, they would not have come. That
was and is the best fence.

We should accept the fact that the current situation is unambiguously our fault.
The illegal immigrants are here now. We should now define a path toward eventual
legalization and citizenship for current illegal immigrants while sending a
strong message to potential immigrants: new illegal immigrants will not find
work here. The United States will determine the conditions and limits for legal
entry and assimilation.

Eugene I. Gordon
Mountainside, N.J., April 10, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Polls, Illegal Immigrants Are Called Burden

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 611 words


Americans see illegal immigrants as using more public services than they pay for
and want the government to do a better job of controlling the borders, but they
favor legal status for current illegal immigrants under specific conditions,
according to national polls released this week.

Those polled say President Bush is handling immigration matters poorly, and they
are more likely to trust the Democrats to do a better job than the Republicans.

About 6 in 10 Americans surveyed by CBS News described the problem of illegal
immigration as very serious. Illegal immigration was characterized as ''out of
control'' by 81 percent in a USA Today/Gallup poll. And three-quarters of those
questioned in an ABC News/Washington Post poll said the United States was not
doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from entering the country.

But a Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll found 63 percent of the respondents
supported an approach that combined tougher enforcement of immigration laws
along with a program of temporary work visas for illegal immigrants, while 30
percent would rather see the focus on tougher enforcement alone. The public is
divided on whether illegal immigrants should be allowed to apply for permits to
stay and work. In the CBS News poll, 49 percent said illegal immigrants should
be allowed to apply, and 43 percent opposed the idea.

But that poll found 74 percent in favor of giving legal status to those who have
lived in the United States for at least five years, if they can speak English,
pay a fine and any back taxes and have no criminal record. Twenty-three percent
of those polled opposed that approach. The USA Today/Gallup poll found approval
for various possible requirements for legal status, with 90 percent of those
surveyed saying that illegal immigrants must be employed. More than 80 percent
said the ability to speak English, pass a health screening and pay back taxes
should be conditions. And smaller majorities favored limiting the program to
those who have been here for at least five years, have paid a fine, and have
relatives living legally in the United States.

The polls gave President Bush low marks for his management of immigration. For
example, only 26 percent of the public, including 42 percent of Republicans and
20 percent of independents, approved of his handling of the immigration issue in
the CBS News poll. Fifty-three percent of all respondents disapproved.

The Republican Party is seen as less able than the Democrats to manage the
complex issue of immigration. In the ABC News/Washington Post poll, 50 percent
said they trusted the Democrats to do a better job of handling immigration
issues, and 38 percent said the Republicans would do a better job.

Reservations about illegal immigrants appear to center on their use of public
services, rather than worries about unemployment or national security. In the
ABC News/Washington Post poll, a third of those surveyed said their biggest
concern was illegal immigrants using ''more public services than they pay for in
taxes.''

Just over half of the public said the jobs that legal or illegal immigrants took
were ones that Americans did not want. In the CBS News poll, 34 percent said
illegal immigrants took jobs away from Americans; 29 percent said the same about
legal immigrants.

The ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted April 6 to 9 with 1,027 adults,
the CBS News poll April 6 to 9 with 899 adults, the Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg
poll April 8 to 11 with 1,357 adults, and the USA Today/Gallup poll April 7 to 9
with 1,004 adults. The four telephone surveys each have a margin of sampling
error of plus or minus three percentage points.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Americans' Views of Immigration''Do you think the United
States is or is not doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from coming into
this country?ENOUGH: 21%NOT ENOUGH: 75NO ANSWER: 4Which would you prefer: an
approach that only focuses on tougher enforcement of immigration laws, or an
approach that includes both tougher enforcement of immigration laws and also
creates a guest worker program that allows undocumented workers to work legally
in the U.S. on temporary visas?-- Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg pollTOUGHER
ENFORCEMENT: 30%TOUGHER ENFORCEMENT AND GUEST WORKER PROGRAM: 63NO ANSWER:
7Would you favor or oppose allowing illegal immigrants who have done the
following to stay and work in the United States: paid a fine, been in the U.S.
for at least five years, paid any back taxes they owe, can speak English, and
have no criminal record?-- CBS News pollFAVOR: 74%OPPOSE: 23NO ANSWER: 3Which
political party, the Democrats or the Republicans, do you trust to do a better
job handling immigration issues?-- ABC News/Washington Post pollDEMOCRATS:
50%REPUBLICANS: 38BOTH: 1NEITHER: 7NO ANSWER: 4

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Little Bit Illegal?

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 188 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Angels in America,'' by John Tierney (column, April 8):

The speed limit on the New York Thruway is 65 miles per hour, but I routinely
drive it at 73 to 74 m.p.h. I have no expectation of getting a speeding ticket.

I drive right by the troopers, and they ignore me. They seem more interested in
the speeders who are going a lot faster.

Society just does not consider going a little over the speed limit a crime.
Angel Espinoza, who is the subject of Mr. Tierney's column, must feel the same
way.

Society does not enforce the law against illegal immigrants who are economically
motivated, hard-working, and who make a life in this country. People are sent
back only rarely, often because they are egregious violators caught doing
something illegal.

I believe that we should secure our borders as part of a rational immigration
policy, but I am not for blanket amnesty.

But we should not criminalize or deport those who saw an unenforced law for the
last two decades, and who have proved to be law-abiding, hard-working people.
There should be a path to citizenship.

Barry Hecht
Delmar, N.Y., April 8, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Immigrants And Business, Rift on Protests

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Gretchen Ruethling contributed reporting from Chicago
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words


In Bonita Springs, Fla., 10 restaurant workers were fired this week after
skipping their shifts to attend a rally against legislation in Congress cracking
down on illegal immigrants. In Tyler, Tex., 22 welders lost their jobs making
parts for air-conditioners after missing work for a similar demonstration in
that city.

And so it went for employees of an asbestos removal firm in Indianapolis, a
restaurant in Milwaukee, a meatpacking company in Detroit, a factory in
Bellwood, Ill.

In the last month, as hundreds of thousands of people around the country have
held demonstrations pressing for legal status and citizenship for illegal
immigrants, companies, particularly those that employ large numbers of
immigrants, have found themselves wrestling with difficult and uncharted
terrain.

They worry about how to keep their businesses operating, fully staffed, but also
not to appear insensitive to a growing political movement that in many cases
sustains their work force.

Some fired workers have complained that they were being singled out for their
political views, and a few have filed formal complaints with the National Labor
Relations Board. Other protesters have cut deals with their employers to work
extra shifts in exchange for time off, or to close down their small businesses
entirely, in deference to the sentiment behind the demonstrations.

In at least one instance, nearly 200 fired workers in Wisconsin were reinstated,
demonstration leaders said, after the leaders met with employers, discussed the
significance of the protests and threatened to identify the companies publicly.

''I have no problem with the demonstration, but this is a business,'' said
Charley Bohley, an owner of Rodes restaurant and fishmarket in Bonita Springs,
who fired the 10 workers there after posting a note warning employees that they
could not miss work for a rally on Monday. ''Couldn't they have protested in the
morning before work? Couldn't they have protested in their hearts?''

Though the number of workers who have lost their jobs across the country,
estimated in the hundreds, is small compared with the numbers marching in the
streets, some protest organizers say word of the firings spread rapidly and
might have a chilling effect on many more workers and on students, some of whom
also say they have faced discipline for missing school for rallies.

The firings have also forced some organizers to rethink how best to plan future
demonstrations, and some are considering opting out of events now in the works.

In Washington, Jaime Contreras, the president of the National Capital
Immigration Coalition, said his coalition voted on Thursday night not to take
part in a proposed national boycott or strike set for May 1. Jose I. Sanchez, an
organizer in Texas, said his group was considering holding a rally on the Sunday
before May 1 instead, just to avoid such strains.

''We shouldn't put our progress in jeopardy,'' Mr. Contreras said. ''That is a
tool you use when you have to, but you have to be completely prepared for
backlash and repercussions.''

In many cities, rally organizers said, plenty of businesses, many of which have
pushed for efforts to give legal status to immigrants, cooperated with the
demonstrations and allowed workers time off. In Indianapolis, one company went
so far as to let 2,000 people leave their jobs for Monday's demonstration
downtown, said Ken Moran, an organizer.

''The firings we've seen were an anomaly,'' Mr. Moran said, ''but it's a sad
situation.''

In complaints filed with the government in one case, Mark A. Sweet, a lawyer for
two fired restaurant workers in Milwaukee, said the restaurant had violated the
National Labor Relations Act by firing the workers for what he considered
legally protected activities: efforts to assist in the mutual aid and protection
of themselves and other immigrant workers.

Other legal experts, however, questioned whether such a provision would apply to
a public rally, and suggested that the workers had few remedies. For the most
part, ''at-will'' employees may be fired at any time, for any reason, said
Charles B. Craver, a professor at The George Washington University Law School.

''For private employers, there is normally no special First Amendment right to
get out of work to engage in a protest,'' said Rodney A. Smolla, the dean of the
University of Richmond School of Law. ''A company might decide that it's good
for morale to accommodate the exercise of freedom of speech on an issue that is
very important to people, but that's an employment judgment not law.''

In Tyler, Tex., Maria Rodriguez described on Friday how she and others had lost
their jobs putting together equipment for air-conditioners for Benchmark
Manufacturing Inc. Ms. Rodriguez, 32, who said she had made $6.75 an hour after
several years with the company, said she had always been given time off in the
past for personal appointments. This time, though, she was fired, she said.

''To me it seemed unfair,'' Ms. Rodriguez said. Even as she was being fired, she
said, she saw applicants arriving at the company to replace her.

Benchmark Manufacturing issued a statement outlining the company's absence
policy, and adding, ''This issue is not about going to the rally, it is about
following the company policies that govern every employee.''

Against the backdrop of the broader immigration debate, the firings raised
another tangled issue for some of the companies and for the workers: the legal
status of those employees removed. Ms. Rodriguez, a native of Mexico, said she
moved to the United States 14 years ago and did not have legal status. Some
other advocates for those fired in other states said they did not know the legal
status of the workers.

Elsewhere, after advocates intervened, some workers were rehired this week. At
Wolverine Packing in Detroit, company officials said they invited 21 fired
workers -- 20 of whom were considered temporary workers -- to return to their
jobs, with back pay, on Monday. The company, meanwhile, issued a statement
saying it planned to recheck employment documentation ''due to reports that some
of the temporary staffers may have been illegal.''

Elena Herrada, who met with the company on behalf of the workers, said she did
not know if any of them were in the United States illegally. The employees were
already unhappy with their working conditions, Ms. Herrada said, and none were
planning to return.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: This is the demonstration, in Tyler, Tex., on Monday, that drew
Ms. Rodriguez and some co-workers, 21 of whom were dismissed with her.
 Maria Rodriguez with the last pay stub she received before being fired for
missing work to attend an immigration rally. Others fired sit behind her.
(Photographs by Mario Villafuerte for The New York Times)(pg. A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Medicaid Rule For Immigrants May Bar Others

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15


More than 50 million Medicaid recipients will soon have to produce birth
certificates, passports or other documents to prove that they are United States
citizens, and everyone who applies for coverage after June 30 will have to show
similar documents under a new federal law.

The requirement is meant to stop the ''theft of Medicaid benefits by illegal
aliens,'' in the words of Representative Charlie Norwood, Republican of Georgia,
a principal author of the provision, which was signed into law by President Bush
on Feb. 8.

In enforcing the new requirement, federal and state officials must take account
of passions stirred by weeks of national debate over immigration policy. State
officials worry that many blacks, American Indians and other poor people will be
unable to come up with the documents needed to prove citizenship. In addition,
hospital executives said they were concerned that the law could increase their
costs, by reducing the number of patients with insurance.

The new requirement takes effect on July 1. The Congressional Budget Office
estimates that it will save the federal government $220 million over five years
and $735 million over 10 years.

Estimates of the number of people who will be affected vary widely. The budget
office expects that 35,000 people will lose coverage by 2015. Most of them will
be illegal immigrants, it said, but some will be citizens unable to produce the
necessary documents. Some Medicaid experts put the numbers much higher, saying
that millions of citizens could find their health benefits in jeopardy.

State officials are trying to figure out how to comply. Many said the
requirement would result in denying benefits to some poor people who were
entitled to Medicaid but could not find the necessary documents.

''This provision is misguided and will serve as a barrier to health care for
otherwise eligible United States citizens,'' said Gov. Chris Gregoire of
Washington, a Democrat.

Ms. Gregoire said the provision would cause hardship for many older
African-Americans who never received birth certificates and for homeless people
who did not have ready access to family records.

Hospitals and nursing homes are expressing concern. ''The new requirement will
result in fewer people being eligible for Medicaid or enrolling in the program,
and that means more uninsured people,'' said Lynne P. Fagnani, senior vice
president of the National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems.
''They still need care, but are more likely to wait until their condition
becomes more severe and more costly to treat.''

The new requirement will come as a surprise to most Medicaid recipients. The law
said federal officials should inform them ''as soon as practicable'' after Feb.
8. But the education campaign, to be conducted in concert with states, has yet
to begin.

Under the law, the Deficit Reduction Act, states cannot receive federal Medicaid
money unless they verify citizenship by checking documents like passports and
birth certificates for people who receive or apply for Medicaid.

In a draft letter providing guidance to state officials, the Bush administration
says, ''An applicant or recipient who does not cooperate with the requirement to
present documentary evidence of citizenship may be denied eligibility or
terminated'' from Medicaid.

The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research and advocacy
group, estimates that three million to five million low-income citizens on
Medicaid could find their coverage at risk because they do not have birth
certificates or passports.

Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, said: ''Many older Americans do
not have birth certificates because their parents did not have access to
hospitals, and so they were born at home. In the last century, all over the
South, because of segregation and racial discrimination, many hospitals would
not take minorities.''

In Georgia, Medicaid officials began enforcing a similar requirement in January.
Dr. Rhonda M. Medows, commissioner of the state's Department of Community
Health, said it had not caused serious problems.

In Arizona, the governor's health policy adviser, Anne M. Winter, said the
federal requirement would ''reduce or delay enrollment for eligible individuals,
mostly U.S. citizens.'' In many cases, Ms. Winter said, ''Native Americans --
the first Americans -- do not have the documents'' required to show citizenship.
In addition, she said, older Medicaid recipients with Alzheimer's disease or
other mental impairments may not understand the requirement and may be unable to
retrieve the documents they need.

In New Jersey, Ann Clemency Kohler, the Medicaid director, said: ''There are
lots of reasons why people born here may not have copies of their birth
certificates. And many people in their 80's and 90's just don't have a driver's
license or a passport because they're not driving or traveling overseas.''

In general, Medicaid is available only to United States citizens and certain
''qualified aliens.'' Legal immigrants are, in many cases, barred from Medicaid
for five years after they enter the United States. Under a 1986 law, applicants
for Medicaid have to declare in writing, under penalty of perjury, whether they
are citizens and, if not, whether they are ''in a satisfactory immigration
status.''

State Medicaid officials were already required to check the immigration status
of people who said they were noncitizens. But until this year, when applicants
claimed United States citizenship, states had discretion: they could choose
whether to require documentation.

More than 40 states accepted the applicants' written statements as proof of
citizenship unless the claims seemed questionable to state eligibility workers.

In a study last year, Daniel R. Levinson, inspector general of the Department of
Health and Human Services, said that federal Medicaid officials had ''encouraged
self-declaration in an effort to simplify and accelerate the Medicaid
application process.'' Mr. Levinson recommended additional safeguards, including
spot checks of Medicaid recipients to verify citizenship claims.

Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, agreed, but said he was unaware of any fraud. ''The report does not
find particular problems regarding false allegations of citizenship, nor are we
aware of any,'' Dr. McClellan said at the time.

In an interview on Saturday, Dr. McClellan said, ''We are working with states to
develop a policy to accommodate the needs of special groups of Americans who may
not have traditional government-issued birth certificates.'' Federal officials
said that after consulting such groups, they might find other documents that
could prove citizenship.

Jennifer M. Ng'andu of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic group, said,
''A likely consequence of the new requirement is that a number of people will be
cut off Medicaid even though they are eligible.''

The law specifies documents that can be used to establish citizenship. A United
States passport by itself is enough. Or a person can use ''a certificate of
birth in the United States,'' together with a document that confirms identity,
like a driver's license with a photograph.

The new requirement is causing alarm in Indian country. Representative Rick
Renzi, an Arizona Republican whose district includes more than 145,000 Navajos
and Apaches, is urging the Bush administration to let people qualify for
Medicaid by showing ''certificates of Indian blood'' and other forms of tribal
identification.

Kathleen Collins Pagels, executive director of the Arizona Health Care
Association, said ''some nursing home residents could lose Medicaid coverage''
because they could not produce the documents required to prove citizenship.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Liberal's Contrarian Views

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; 3 Perspectives On Immigration, From
the Inside: The Advocate; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: DENVER, April 15


Three voices. Three people, each with a small piece of the swirling story of
illegal immigration in the United States, cannot answer the tangled questions
that have washed over politics recently with a sudden, jolting wave.

Do 11 million illegal immigrants pose an economic question for the nation, or a
political one? Is the debate about the jobs that American-born resident will not
do, or the jobs being taken from them? Is it about enforcing rules, or
acknowledging rights?

Miguel A. Carvajal parks cars for a living in a garage in Manhattan and hopes
for something better. Myles Gladstone employs immigrants and wants the best for
them -- and for his construction company near Washington, D.C. Waldo Benavidez
sits in a low-income neighborhood in Denver and watches with anxiety and anger
at the fate of the American poor who he thinks are being hurt by immigrants. He
wants the border closed.

Each comes from a different place and sees a different picture. They disagree
not just about what should happen in Congress and in the state capitals that are
wrestling with immigration legislation, but even about where to start.

Sitting at the Auraria Community Center here on a recent morning with his cat,
Tails, perched before him on the desk, Waldo Benavidez gestured to a large
portrait of Emiliano Zapata, the leader of the 1910 Mexican revolution -- and
Mr. Benavidez's personal hero.

Mexicans here illegally, Mr. Benavidez said, should take a lesson from those
days and return home to fight for change in their own country.

''If you're tough enough to cross the desert, you're tough to take on your own
government and change it,'' he said.

Mr. Benavidez has spent most of his adult life working on behalf of the poor.
For the last 25 years he has managed the community center and a food bank here
on Denver's west side, where low-income families can get groceries. He marched
for civil rights in the 1960's and relishes the memory of his first vote for
president, for John F. Kennedy, in 1960.

But immigration's tangled implications have pushed him out of his comfortable
old political box with its predictably liberal labels and causes. Supporting the
poor in America, he said, now means shutting down the system that has created a
flood of even poorer immigrants from Mexico.

''It has nothing to do with whether I like Mexicans, or whether I've got one
foot in Mexico myself because of my ancestry -- I'm an American first,'' said
Mr. Benavidez, 67. ''I'm very liberal on a lot of issues, but on this one I've
taken a stand because of the impact it has on the working people of this
country.''

Mr. Benavidez, whose ancestors have been in the West for 250 years, since the
days of the Spanish empire, supports sealing the Mexican border, and is working
for a proposed ballot proposition here in Colorado that would deny government
social services to illegal immigrants.

He rails against multinational corporations that he says have rigged the
political systems of the United States and Mexico to keep the border porous as a
tool for suppressing wages and labor unions.

A Democrat, he nonetheless says he may vote for his first Republican ever this
fall because he thinks many Democrats are ''pandering'' to Hispanic voters on
the immigration issue and not keeping their eyes on what is good for the
country.

Mr. Benavidez said he had been offended by the recent waves of protests around
the country, with illegal immigrants demanding rights, and by the comparisons
that had been made between those efforts and the civil rights struggles of the
past over things like voter registration.

''This is not a civil rights issue,'' he said. ''These people are not citizens
demanding their rights -- that's different.''

Hispanics, like all Americans, are divided in their thinking about illegal
immigrants. In a poll in February and March by the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press and the Pew Hispanic Center, about one in five Hispanics
said that illegal immigrants should be required to go home, compared with just
over half of the respondents as a whole who said that. Almost one-third of
Hispanics in the survey said they thought illegal immigrants should not be
eligible for social services provided by state and local governments, compared
with about two-thirds of the respondents as a whole who thought services should
be denied.

Mr. Benavidez also acknowledged that his position was not without its
inconsistencies. Many illegal immigrants are poor people, too, like his
multigeneration Hispanic neighbors here in Denver, just from a different place.
And immigration is not the only source of poverty or downward wage pressures in
a society.

''It's a complicated issue, and I don't have all the answers,'' he said. ''I do
know that there's injustice.''

Mr. Benavidez said that to him, the issue is not about ethnicity at all. It is
about governments allowing poor people to sink further into poverty by
indifference or direct action -- and both the United States and Mexico, he said,
are guilty.

In places like Denver, he said, the social safety net of job training programs
and educational support efforts embodied by the Great Society programs of the
1960's would once have made illegal immigration less of a blow to the American
poor. But those protections have largely been stripped away over the years.

In Mexico, the oligarchy of wealthy families that he said controlled most of the
power had exploited the poor just as callously, shipping them north as a safety
valve to diffuse political pressure for economic reform.

What is changing this year, and putting the immigration issue on the burner in
Washington and in state capitals, Mr. Benavidez said, is that the middle class
suddenly cares about immigration, and he thinks a political thunderclap could
result in this fall's elections if people are still aroused.

''There is a revolt out there,'' he said. ''Change will come.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: WALDO BENAVIDEZ -- Food bank manager and advocate for the poor
(Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dreaming of U.S. Citizenship

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; 3 Perspectives On Immigration, From
the Inside: The Immigrant; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 918 words


Three voices. Three people, each with a small piece of the swirling story of
illegal immigration in the United States, cannot answer the tangled questions
that have washed over politics recently with a sudden, jolting wave.

Do 11 million illegal immigrants pose an economic question for the nation, or a
political one? Is the debate about the jobs that American-born resident will not
do, or the jobs being taken from them? Is it about enforcing rules, or
acknowledging rights?

Miguel A. Carvajal parks cars for a living in a garage in Manhattan and hopes
for something better. Myles Gladstone employs immigrants and wants the best for
them -- and for his construction company near Washington, D.C. Waldo Benavidez
sits in a low-income neighborhood in Denver and watches with anxiety and anger
at the fate of the American poor who he thinks are being hurt by immigrants. He
wants the border closed.

Each comes from a different place and sees a different picture. They disagree
not just about what should happen in Congress and in the state capitals that are
wrestling with immigration legislation, but even about where to start.


  In Jackson Heights, Queens, last week, a line of people stretched outside
Orlando Travel, a small booth between a lingerie shop and a perfume store in a
mini-mall. One of them, Miguel A. Carvajal, clung to a folder of papers and to
the hope that what he was doing -- filing his taxes -- would help him change his
status as an illegal immigrant.

The owner of the travel agency, Orlando Tobon, who also prepares income tax
forms for many of the Colombian immigrants in the area, reviewed Mr. Carvajal's
federal and state tax forms, stapled them and handed them back. He took his fee
of $40 and slipped it into his pocket.

Mr. Carvajal said that since coming to New York from Colombia in October 2001,
he has paid taxes on his earnings each year, hoping it will help him apply for
citizenship so that he can bring over his wife and daughter, who have been
unable to win visas to settle in the United States.

Mr. Carvajal, 40, left behind his family and a solid job as a traffic police
officer and bought a round-trip plane ticket to New York, as if taking a
vacation. He got a job parking cars at a Manhattan garage for minimum wage and
found that the people back home were right: he could make more money at a
minimum-wage job in New York than he could directing traffic in Medellin.

He held out his 2005 tax form and pointed to his gross income -- $23,489 --
which he said came from working seven days a week and all the overtime he could
get.

Mr. Carvajal is one of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United
States who would be affected by proposed legislation to create a guest-worker
program for immigrants who have lived in here for two or more years, and an
easier path to citizenship for those who have lived here at least five years.

Mr. Carvajal said all he really knew about the proposed bill was that it would
be likely to help him, since he has been here almost five years: working hard,
paying his taxes and staying out of trouble. ''I'm glad the government is doing
something to help us,'' he said. ''The only reason we moved here is to work
hard.''

He added, ''I'm glad to pay taxes if it means I can start building my life
here.''

Mr. Carvajal said he decided to pay taxes in good faith, hoping that the
government would respond in kind with an offer to let him earn his citizenship.

He lives in a small room he rents for $400 a month in Woodside with a bathroom
in the hall he shares with three other men, all Colombian and in a similar
situation.

He commutes on the elevated No. 7 train, known as the immigrant express, which
rumbles along Roosevelt Avenue, bringing workers into Manhattan from Flushing,
Corona, Jackson Heights and Woodside.

Mr. Carvajal works evenings for $6.50 an hour at a small parking garage in
Manhattan, where the required skills are parking in tight spaces and saying as
little as possible. He knows just enough English to tell customers how much they
owe for how many hours parked.

He earns $300 a week plus tips, $65 of which is withheld in taxes, he said. He
has no benefits or health insurance and spends as little as possible on himself
-- rent, food, clothing, subway fare and cellphone, and he tries to avoid the
doctor.

He tries to send $300 a month to his parents and his wife and daughter in
Colombia, he said. The money has helped buy a house for them and paid the
private school tuition for his daughter, Veronica, 16, whose voice on the
telephone no longer sounds like that of the 11-year-old girl he left behind.

''In my mind, she is still a little girl, but I know she is a woman now,'' he
said. ''I feel like I don't know her anymore.''

His family speaks reverentially of New York, but that is not the city he knows,
he said. A walk around Midtown on a Sunday is the most he sees. Having illegal
status means a precarious life, he said. He is nervous in public and refrains
from socializing for fear of getting involved in anything that could lead to an
encounter with people bearing badges.

On Thursday night, he stared westward down a Manhattan street at a sliver of
pink sunset fading to darkness. He traded in a life as a happy but poor father
for the chance at a more prosperous future for his family in America, he said,
and he recently made a bargain with himself to give it two more years to see if
citizenship will ever be possible.

''If not, I give up and go home,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: MIGUEL A. CARVAJAL -- Parking attendant in Manhattan, left, with
Orlando Tobon (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mi Madre Went to a Rally and All I Got Was

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 233 words


As the immigration debate takes to America's streets, it's also taking to
American bodies, legal and illegal. At every march there are T-shirts for all
points of view. ''We Are America'' and ''Hecho en Mexico'' (Made in Mexico);
''Illegal Immigrant'' and ''Border Patrol''; ''Illegal Alien Invaders'' and
''America Not Amexico.'' They all look good on the nightly news.

The T-shirt itself, fittingly, is an immigrant. During World War I, American
soldiers adopted the comfortable cotton underwear worn by European soldiers
instead of their standard-issue wool garments. By World War II, cotton T's were
standard Army issue.

The shirt's political debut was inauspicious; the 1948 presidential campaign of
Thomas E. Dewey tried and failed to put their man over the top with a ''Dew It
for Dewey'' T-shirt. But the shirt made a successful comeback in 1952 with the
''I Like Ike'' slogan in support of Dwight D. Eisenhower.

At HellaTees.com, a specialty T-shirt retailer in the Charlotte, N.C., area,
''Pedro's Immigration and Lawn Service: Sneakin' Them Through to Mow for You!''
is the most popular of its 430 choices, said David Lore, HellaTees' business
manager. ''We pick up on current events, and put a spin on those,'' explained
Mr. Lore, who ''wrote'' the best-selling shirt. ''If you can't tell what side
I'm on, I'm doing my job right. I'm kind of like a journalist.''   WILLIAM L.
HAMILTON


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Illegalimmigrationbumperstickers.com)
 (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cost of Illegal Immigration May Be Less Than Meets the Eye

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1062 words


CALIFORNIA may seem the best place to study the impact of illegal immigration on
the prospects of American workers. Hordes of immigrants rushed into the state in
the last 25 years, competing for jobs with the least educated among the native
population. The wages of high school dropouts in California fell 17 percent from
1980 to 2004.

But before concluding that immigrants are undercutting the wages of the least
fortunate Americans, perhaps one should consider Ohio. Unlike California, Ohio
remains mostly free of illegal immigrants. And what happened to the wages of
Ohio's high school dropouts from 1980 to 2004? They fell 31 percent.

As Congress debates an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, several
economists and news media pundits have sounded the alarm, contending that
illegal immigrants are causing harm to Americans in the competition for jobs.

Yet a more careful examination of the economic data suggests that the argument
is, at the very least, overstated. There is scant evidence that illegal
immigrants have caused any significant damage to the wages of American workers.

The number that has been getting the most attention lately was produced by
George J. Borjas and Lawrence F. Katz, two Harvard economists, in a paper
published last year. They estimated that the wave of illegal Mexican immigrants
who arrived from 1980 to 2000 had reduced the wages of high school dropouts in
the United States by 8.2 percent. But the economists acknowledge that the number
does not consider other economic forces, such as the fact that certain
businesses would not exist in the United States without cheap immigrant labor.
If it had accounted for such things, immigration's impact would be likely to
look less than half as big.

Mr. Katz was somewhat taken aback by the attention the study has received.
''This was not intended,'' he said.

At first blush, the preoccupation over immigration seems reasonable. Since 1980,
eight million illegal immigrants have entered the work force. Two-thirds of them
never completed high school. It is sensible to expect that, because they were
willing to work for low wages, they would undercut the position in the labor
market of American high school dropouts.

This common sense, however, ignores half the picture. Over the last
quarter-century, the number of people without any college education, including
high school dropouts, has fallen sharply. This has reduced the pool of workers
who are most vulnerable to competition from illegal immigrants.

In addition, as businesses and other economic agents have adjusted to
immigration, they have made changes that have muted much of immigration's impact
on American workers.

For instance, the availability of foreign workers at low wages in the Nebraska
poultry industry made companies realize that they had the personnel to expand.
So they invested in new equipment, generating jobs that would not otherwise be
there. In California's strawberry patches, illegal immigrants are not competing
against native workers; they are competing against pickers in Michoacan, Mexico.
If the immigrant pickers did not come north across the border, the strawberries
would.

''Immigrants come in and the industries that use this type of labor grow,'' said
David Card, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Taking all
into account, the effects of immigration are much, much lower.''

In a study published last year that compared cities that have lots of less
educated immigrants with cities that have very few, Mr. Card found no wage
differences that could be attributed to the presence of immigrants.

Other research has also cast doubt on illegal immigration's supposed damage to
the nation's disadvantaged. A study published earlier this year by three
economists -- David H. Autor of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr.
Katz of Harvard and Melissa S. Kearney of the Brookings Institution -- observed
that income inequality in the bottom half of the wage scale has not grown since
around the mid-1980's.

Even economists striving hardest to find evidence of immigration's effect on
domestic workers are finding that, at most, the surge of illegal immigrants
probably had only a small impact on wages of the least-educated Americans -- an
effect that was likely swamped by all the other things that hit the economy,
from the revolution in technology to the erosion of the minimum wage's buying
power.

When Mr. Borjas and Mr. Katz assumed that businesses reacted to the extra
workers with a corresponding increase in investment -- as has happened in
Nebraska -- their estimate of the decline in wages of high school dropouts
attributed to illegal immigrants was shaved to 4.8 percent. And they have since
downgraded that number, acknowledging that the original analysis used some
statistically flimsy data.

Assuming a jump in capital investment, they found that the surge in illegal
immigration reduced the wages of high school dropouts by just 3.6 percent.
Across the entire labor force, the effect of illegal immigrants was zero,
because the presence of uneducated immigrants actually increased the earnings of
more educated workers, including high school graduates. For instance,
higher-skilled workers could hire foreigners at low wages to mow their lawns and
care for their children, freeing time for these workers to earn more. And
businesses that exist because of the availability of cheap labor might also need
to employ managers.

Mr. Borjas said that while the numbers were not large, the impact at the bottom
end of the skill range was significant. ''It is not a big deal for the whole
economy, but that hides a big distributional impact,'' he said.

OTHERS disagree. ''If you're a native high school dropout in this economy,
you've got a slew of problems of which immigrant competition is but one, and a
lesser one at that,'' said Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute, a
liberal research group.

Mr. Katz agreed that the impact was modest, and it might fall further if changes
in trade flows were taken into account -- specifically, that without illegal
immigrants, some products now made in the United States would likely be
imported. ''Illegal immigration had a little bit of a role reinforcing adverse
trends for the least advantaged,'' he said, ''but there are much stronger forces
operating over the last 25 years.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Do Immigrants Affect Wages?''The estimated number of illegal
immigrants in a state's population shows no apparent correlation with the median
wage for less educated workers in that state.SELECTED STATES, 2004NevadaIllegal
immigrants as a percent of state's population: 7.5%Median hourly wage for
high-school dropouts: $10.05CaliforniaIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's
population: 6.9Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 8.71FloridaIllegal
immigrants as a percent of state's population: 5.2Median hourly wage for
high-school dropouts: 8.99MarylandIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's
population: 4.5Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 9.84New
JerseyIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 4.1Median hourly
wage for high-school dropouts: 9.03New YorkIllegal immigrants as a percent of
state's population: 3.3Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts:
9.02NebraskaIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 2.3Median
hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 9.08OhioIllegal immigrants as a percent of
state's population: 1.0Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts:
8.37KentuckyIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 0.9Median
hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 8.73(Source by Pew Hispanic Center,
Economic Policy Institute analysis of Current Population Survey data)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Demonstrations on Immigration Are Hardening a Divide

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1324 words

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., April 14


Al and Diane Kitlica have not paid close attention to the immigration debate in
Congress. But when more than 100,000 mostly Hispanic demonstrators marched
through Phoenix this week, the Kitlicas noticed.

''I was outraged,'' Ms. Kitlica told J. D. Hayworth, the Republican who is her
congressman, as she and her husband stopped him for 20 minutes while he was on a
walk through their suburban neighborhood to complain to him about the issue.

''You want to stay here and get an education, get benefits, and you still want
to say 'Viva Mexico'? It was a slap in the face,'' Ms. Kitlica said, adding that
illegal immigrants were straining the Mesa public school where she teaches.

A few miles west, Gus Martinez, a Mexican immigrant who was moonlighting at a
hot dog stand after a day installing drywall, said the protests had changed his
perspective, too.

Mr. Martinez, who said he was a legal immigrant, said he also supported border
security to curb illegal entry. But he had taken the day off to march earlier in
the week because he believed that the foes of illegal immigration were taking
aim at Hispanics as a group. The demonstrations, he said, had instilled in him a
sense of power.

''It showed that our hands -- Latino hands -- make a difference in this
country,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''They see you are Hispanic and call you a
criminal, but we are not.''

As lawmakers set aside the debate on immigration legislation for their spring
recess, the protests by millions around the nation have escalated the policy
debate into a much broader battle over the status of the country's 11 million
illegal immigrants. While the marches have galvanized Hispanic voters, they have
also energized those who support a crackdown on illegal immigration.

''The size and magnitude of the demonstrations had some kind of backfire
effect,'' said John McLaughlin, a Republican pollster who said he was working
for 26 House members and seven senators seeking re-election. ''The Republicans
that are tough on immigration are doing well right now.''

Mr. Hayworth said, ''I see an incredible backlash.'' He has become one of the
House's most vocal opponents of illegal immigration and is one of dozens of
Republicans who have vowed to block the temporary-worker measure that stalled in
the Senate.

The Kitlicas, who had been unaware of his views, decided to volunteer for his
campaign. Mr. Hayworth, who has been singled out by Democrats in his bid for
re-election, faces a challenge from a popular former Democratic mayor of Tempe,
Harry E. Mitchell.

The immigration issue is cropping up in areas as far from the border as Iowa and
Nebraska. In one House district in Iowa, Republican primary candidates are
running television commercials competing over who is ''toughest'' on illegal
immigration, said Amy Walters, an analyst with the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report.

Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican from another district, said his
office had been flooded with angry calls about the recent marches. ''It is one
thing to see an abstract number of 12 million illegal immigrants,'' Mr. King
said. ''It is another thing to see more than a million marching through the
streets demanding benefits as if it were a birthright.'' He added, ''I think
people resent that.''

But Mr. King, who supported a House bill to restrict illegal immigrants without
creating a guest-worker program, said he was also feeling new heat from the
thousands of Hispanics in his district, many of whom worked in its meatpacking
plants. Responding to a survey by his office, some Hispanics called him a racist
for asking questions about building a wall with Mexico, or suggested a wall with
Canada, he said.

The emotions around the issue are especially intense in Arizona, where thousands
of illegal immigrants cross the border each month and more than a quarter of the
population is Hispanic. In 2004, Hispanics accounted for about one in eight
voters.

When voters approved a ballot measure that year to block access to state
services for illegal immigrants, more than 40 percent of Hispanic voters
supported it, according to some surveys of people leaving polling places.

But many Hispanics said opinions had changed dramatically in the past few weeks,
partly because of the hostility they perceived in some proposals from Mr.
Hayworth and other conservatives.

''When people are talking about shooting people who come across the border,''
said Harry Garewal, chief executive of the Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
''yeah, I think that causes some angst.''

Leo Hernandez, assistant publisher of Prensa Hispana, a major Arizona
Spanish-language newspaper, said the demonstrations had also played a role.
''The Latino people in Arizona are more united,'' Mr. Hernandez said. ''They are
no more afraid; they go out into the streets.''

In Scottsdale, where many employees are Hispanic but few residents are, some
voters said the workplace absences on the day of the marches highlighted the
importance of immigrant labor.

''If you don't get the Hispanics here working in this town, you don't have cooks
in the back, you don't have people building houses,'' said Bruce Weinstein, an
executive eating breakfast at a restaurant.

Many others, however, expressed alarm about the marches, saying the
demonstrations could have been a chance to round up and deport illegal
immigrants.

''They should all be ejected out of the country,'' said Andrew Chenot, a
construction worker, who added, ''They are in my country and they are on my job,
and they are driving down wages.''

Others here, like the Kitlicas, said the marches had only sharpened their
worries that illegal immigrants from Mexico brought with them crime, financial
burdens, national security risks, cultural disintegration and even diseases like
drug-resistant tuberculosis -- concerns echoed often by conservative talk radio
hosts in the state.

Representative Hayworth said such fears were well-founded. ''We have indicted
felons from other societies on the loose here,'' he said. ''You see the
exponential rise of drug-resistant T.B. and other things. That is not indicting
an entire culture, but it is pointing out a problem.''

Mr. Hayworth recently published a book, ''Whatever It Takes'' (Regnery
Publishing, 2006), in which he advocates enlisting agencies like the Internal
Revenue Service to find illegal immigrants; arresting and deporting them all;
deploying military troops on the southern border; and temporarily suspending
legal immigration from Mexico.

His opponent, Mr. Mitchell, calls those ideas ''unrealistic.''

Randy Graf, a former Republican state legislator, is campaigning on the same
border-security themes as Mr. Hayworth in his bid to succeed Representative Jim
Kolbe, a Republican and a supporter of a temporary-worker program who is not
running again.

Mr. Graf challenged Mr. Kolbe in the primary two years ago over the immigration
issue and won 40 percent of the vote, putting him in a strong position against
two more moderate Republicans in the primary.

Mike Hellon, one of the more moderate candidates in the current primary, said:
''The marches have hardened positions on both sides. People who really want the
border closed -- who want to put troops down there -- are more passionate than
ever, and the other side is more sympathetic.'' He added, ''It does escalate the
risk factor for a moderate like me.''

Representative Raul M. Grijalva, an Arizona Democrat who supports a
temporary-worker program that would allow illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship, said that House conservatives like Mr. Hayworth remained a major
obstacle to such legislation. ''That is the oil in the water,'' Mr. Grijalva
said.

But with the Hispanic electorate set to swell as the children of immigrants come
of age, Mr. Grijalva said that history was on the other side.

''You might be getting a momentary bump,'' he said, ''but in the long run you
are going to lose.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative J. D. Hayworth, Republican of Arizona, said he
had seen ''an incredible backlash'' to the immigration demonstrations. (Photo by
Alex Wong/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anti-Immigrant Group Active on East End

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1073 words


THE continuing tension over the impact of illegal immigrants on many Long Island
communities has taken on a new dimension: A local branch of the Minutemen Civil
Defense Corps is making its presence felt on the East End.

The two-year-old group is best known nationally for its claim to having
thousands of private citizens, many of them armed, camping on the United States'
borders to watch for and report people who enter the country illegally.

But their many critics call the Minutemen a right-wing militia. Law enforcement
officials, human rights groups, advocates for immigrants and even other
self-deputized border posses have accused the group of using vigilante tactics
and criticized one of its founders, a former California schoolteacher named
Chris Simcox, for his inflamed rhetoric.

On Long Island, the group has drawn attention in recent weeks for vocally
opposing a plan for a day-labor hiring site in Southampton Town. Carrying a
banner saying ''Stop the Invasion,'' members of the group appeared at a forum on
April 10 held by the League of Women Voters to discuss the plan.

Sandra Dunn, the spokeswoman for the Coalition for a Worklink Center, the group
pushing to build the hiring hall, said the Minutemen booed and heckled speakers
at the forum.

''I think they feel disenfranchised and threatened so they act out in
inappropriate and childish ways,'' Ms. Dunn said. She added that she did not
think the group posed any physical threat, but others at the forum said they
were alarmed at the prospect of the group's members carrying guns.

Ronald Lewandowski, the founder of the group's East End chapter, said the group
was strictly law-abiding. ''We've been misrepresented as gun-toting, neo-Nazi
rednecks, and that's unfair,'' he said. ''We do nothing but operate under the
law, for enforcement of the law.''

He confirmed that members of the group do often carry weapons. ''It's a personal
choice,'' he said. ''If you go into the wilderness on the northern or southern
border, no one in his right mind would go out there without protection.''

But he said he did not do so in Southampton. ''Why would I want to get caught
with a weapon and discredit the whole organization?'' he said.

Mr. Lewandowski said that the group ran background checks on prospective members
to weed out convicted criminals or members of hate groups, that the group's
policies prohibit direct contact with illegal aliens and that members who have
guns must obtain any required permits for them.

Long Islanders dominate the group's leadership in New York. The state director,
Peter Lanteri, is a former marine from Bay Shore; his deputy, Patrick Megaro, is
a criminal defense lawyer from Nassau County. Mr. Lewandowski is a retired
Teamster living in Hampton Bays.

Mr. Lanteri, who organized a rally in Babylon last September to recruit members
on the Island, was leading a patrol on the Canadian border and was unavailable
to be interviewed, Mr. Lewandowski said.

Hard-line anti-immigrant sentiment is not new on the Island. Frictions between
residents and immigrants have flared repeatedly in Farmingville, where a group
that is now defunct, Sachem Quality of Life, could turn out hundreds of
supporters to protest the presence of illegal immigrants and call for the mass
deportation of day laborers.

But after two white supremacists, Christopher Slavin and Ryan Wagner, attacked
and nearly killed two day laborers in Farmingville in 2000, questions arose
about whether the inflamed rhetoric was partly to blame for the crime. ''They
really lost a lot of credibility with the vast majority of Long Islanders,''
said Nadia Marin-Molina of the Workplace Project, a Hempstead group that
organizes low-wage Latino workers to fight for better working conditions. She
called the Minutemen an even more radical group than Sachem Quality of Life.

STILL, their numbers are limited. At the September rally, where Mr. Simcox was
the featured speaker, Ms. Marin-Molina said counter-protesters outnumbered the
Minutemen.

Mr. Lewandowski said in an interview that the group's numbers had doubled on
Long Island in the last few months and tripled on the East End. Asked for
specific figures, he estimated that there were 20 members on the South Fork.
''Every day more people contact us and want to join up,'' he said.

Without a border to patrol locally, the East End chapter's main activities are
staking out places where day laborers congregate and looking for overcrowded
houses to report to law enforcement authorities, Mr. Lewandowski said. He said
the group had a ''wonderful relationship'' with the police.

But the regional office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and county, town
and village police said they had never received any evidence from a Minuteman
that was credible enough to warrant opening an investigation.

''To tell you the truth, we're not interested in their help,'' said Gerard
Larsen Jr., the East Hampton Village police chief, whose own officers have
discouraged day laborers from congregating at the train station there by
reporting the contractors who violate laws by hiring them.

In an interview, Mr. Lewandowski and two supporters, Mimi Whitman and Charlene
O'Donnell, said illegal aliens take jobs from Americans and are a burden on the
taxpayers.

''If the federal government isn't going to uphold the laws, then someone has
to,'' Ms. Whitman said.

Ms. O'Donnell, who works as a waitress and bartender, said illegal immigrants
undercut citizens by working for lower wages. ''I've lost jobs because of
them,'' she said.

They said they objected to all illegal immigrants, not just Latinos. ''The Irish
come here, too, and don't go back,'' Mr. Lewandowski said, referring to students
who work on the South Fork each summer. ''And now they own businesses in
Montauk. The simple fact is, what part of illegal don't they understand?''

Ms. Marin-Molina said of the group: ''You have to wonder how much of it is
posturing. But I wouldn't underestimate the threat. The tendency is toward more
radical visions of what is an immigrant and what they should do about it.''

Steven Kenny, a Southampton town councilman, said the town would not support any
activity that harassed residents, whether they are citizens or not.

''I'm taken aback by that kind of activity,'' he said. ''If what they're doing
is legal, I don't know what the town can do about that, but it's certainly not
something I can condone.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Lewandowski, left, and Pete Lanteri of the Minutemen.
(Photo by Doug Kuntz)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Sleeping Giant

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 510 words


On Monday, if many immigrant advocacy groups get their wish, America will awaken
to a disturbing silence. Shops and offices will not open, factories will be
idle, and classrooms and restaurants will empty out. The nation will rattle with
the emptiness of millions of immigrants not working, not shopping and not going
to school.

The noise is supposed to come later, when many of those same immigrants hit the
streets, protesting and chanting in a continental chorus of complaint. Their din
will be joined by a moan rising from the rest of America, newly exposed as a
fat, immobile queen lost without her worker bees. The shaken nation then will
buckle and pass forgiving laws that loosen its borders and grant the 11 million
to 12 million illegal workers their rightful place in the American landscape.

That's the plan, anyway. But a few things are seriously wrong with it.

The groups that chose May 1 for a day of boycotts and rallies for immigrants'
rights were emboldened by a miracle of grass-roots mobilization that turned a
shadow population into a national movement in less than a month. But many
outspoken defenders of the immigrants' cause are drawing a distinction between
peaceful rallies and punitive boycotts and work stoppages. They say, rightly,
that immigrants should not try to inflict pain on this country just to prove how
much they love it.

Those who argue for aggressive confrontation point to the civil rights era, when
another supposedly powerless minority found the strength to upend an exploitive
system that dangled the possibility of hope while mocking and thwarting it. But
that is a superficial comparison. Segregation denied the legal rights and full
humanity of American citizens. It was a brutal regime that had to be dismantled.
By comparison, current and proposed immigration laws -- even the most punitive
ones -- are at worst foolish, impractical and ungenerous. But they are not Jim
Crow. To say otherwise is to trivialize evil.

Today's immigrants and their allies have a different, but no less admirable,
mission than the 1960's protesters. They are calling on the nation to improve
its laws, to draw on a rich tradition of tolerance in devising a fair, decent
solution to a complex problem.

Whether Monday's protests stumble or soar, participants should strive to avoid
damaging their worthy cause. Boycotts and walkouts could cause many struggling
workers to lose their jobs, send students the wrong message about the importance
of education, give the Minutemen and talk-show morons a chance to strut and
preen, and unnerve and embolden the lawmakers who are itching for a simple
crackdown. This is perilous business: there are signs that fear has already
given the boycott a perverse head start. Recent rumors of federal immigration
crackdowns appear to have driven thousands of illegal immigrants further
underground.

There needs to be a lot of heavy lifting and delicate consensus building to
achieve comprehensive immigration reform. Sleeping giants can, and should, get
moving. But they should tread carefully.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant's Story

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 118 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Student's Prize Is a Trip Into Immigration Limbo'' (news article, April
26):

The article about Amadou Ly, a young illegal immigrant from Senegal facing
deportation, brought tears to my eyes.

I recently moved to New York City to take on my dream job. Without the help of
my parents I would have never been able to relocate or even consider living
here.

I am a 25-year-old college graduate from a stable Midwestern family, and I think
it is absolutely amazing that Mr. Ly has done so well, without the comforts many
of us take for granted.

He is truly an inspiration, and I know of no other person so deserving of a
chance at pursuing the American dream.

Anne Walton
New York, April 26, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Day the Immigrants Spoke Up

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 66 words



To the Editor:

Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants boycotted school and work to demand
their entitlement to the American Dream. Last I checked, this dream was based on
the belief that in America, dedication to education and to a job are the means
by which one can succeed in life.

Thank you, illegals, for giving us this insight into your values.

Nadia El-Badry
Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., May 2, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Producing More. Earning More. Spending More.

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 950 words


MASSES of illegal immigrants took a day off on Monday to demonstrate their
contribution to the American economy. The nationwide protest closed some
businesses, but did not succeed in significantly slowing the economy, as some
organizers had hoped. But then, as the latest batch of statistics suggest,
nothing seems to be slowing the economy.

MIXED SIGNALS -- American workers' productivity -- a ratio of output to hours
worked -- resumed its climb in the first three months of the year, increasing by
a robust 3.2 percent. But, unusual in recent times, workers got more than the
full benefit of their productivity, as hourly wages rose at an annual rate of
5.8 percent -- or 3.2 percent after adjusting for inflation.

The Labor Department reported that unemployment claims rose last week, but only
modestly. There were 2.5 million claims outstanding as of April 22, about 5.5
percent fewer than a year ago, although another report showed that employers
created a net 138,000 new jobs last month, fewer than the 150,000 needed to keep
pace with population growth and far fewer than the 185,000 monthly average in
the first quarter. The unemployment rate was steady at 4.7 percent.

Those signals from the job market fanned concerns that inflation may accelerate
soon, leading the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates further to slow it.
For now, however, inflation is slow. Consumer prices excluding food and energy
rose at a 2 percent rate in March, the Commerce Department said. That was up
from 1.8 percent from the month before, but still tame by historical standards.
Including food and energy, prices rose at a 2.9 percent rate, the same pace as
in February.

The Fed's rate-setting policy makers will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to
discuss whether to raise short-term interest rates. Many traders expect a
quarter-point increase.

EARN AND SPEND -- If consumers were worried about higher interest rates, or even
stubbornly high gasoline prices, it was difficult to detect it at the nation's
shopping centers.

Retailers, paced by Kohl's (up 13.4 percent) and Target (up 10.4 percent),
reported their best monthly sales results in two years. Results for stores open
at least a year rose an unusually high 6.6 percent, compared with the period a
year ago.

The biggest gains were at stores focused on teenagers, including American Eagle
Outfitters (up 19 percent) and Abercrombie & Fitch (up 17 percent). Sales at
Gap, by contrast, fell 3 percent. Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest
retailer, said its sales rose 6.8 percent.

The International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group, predicted a far
less rosy picture for this month, as high gasoline prices are expected to damp
spending in stores.

GAS PAINS -- Energy costs have already crimped sales in one area: autos.

General Motors, Ford and Chrysler all reported declines in April. G.M. and Ford
were each down 7 percent compared with April last year. The Chrysler division of
DaimlerChrysler reported an 8 percent decline.

Carmakers with a variety of economical smaller cars, meanwhile, said their sales
rose -- nearly 9 percent for Toyota and 7 percent for Honda.

Paradoxically, a bright spot for G.M. was its lines of new S.U.V.'s. Sales of
its Yukon and Tahoe models rose more than 30 percent last month, while the
Cadillac Escalade S.U.V. jumped by 127 percent.

G.M. will face stiffer competition in coming months as Ford and Chrysler begin
to sell updated models of their S.U.V.'s as well, analysts said.

LABOR PAINS -- Almost before G.M. could enjoy the small bit of good news about
its S.U.V. sales, it received a troubling message from the United Automobile
Workers. That labor union asked its 24,000 members working at Delphi, G.M.'s
biggest parts supplier, to authorize a strike. A walkout at Delphi could force
G.M. to file for bankruptcy protection, analysts say.

Union leaders sought the strike vote less than a week before Delphi, which is
operating under bankruptcy court protection, was scheduled to ask a bankruptcy
judge to let it close 21 of its 29 factories in the United States, eliminate
20,000 of its 34,000 hourly jobs and unilaterally impose sharply lower wage and
benefit rates on the remaining workers.

U.A.W. members are scheduled to vote on the strike before May 14. Delphi's court
date is May 9.

SURE BETS -- If anyone had a rougher week than the people at Delphi, it might
have been the people at Comverse Technology, a telecommunications software
company in New York.

The week began with the unexpected resignations of its founder, Kobi Alexander,
and two other top executives. A few days later, the other shoe dropped: Comverse
disclosed that it had received a subpoena from the United States attorney's
office in Brooklyn seeking information on how the company decided when to grant
stock options to its senior officers.

Comverse had recently come under scrutiny for the remarkably lucky timing of its
executives, who regularly received large stock option grants just before the
company's stock began to rise. The coincidence supercharged the value of those
options; investigators are now looking into whether the grants were illegally
backdated to guarantee that extra pop.

More subpoenas may be coming because other companies have stepped forward to say
that their stock-option programs have also come under federal scrutiny.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on
nytimes.com from April 29 through May 5:
1. New Microsoft Browser Raises Google's Hackles
2. How a Hit Almost Failed Its Own Audition
3. Microsoft and Google Set to Wage Arms Race
4. Doctors Object to Gathering of Drug Data
5. Rich in Features Yet Sleek in Hand
Links are at nytimes.com/business.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Retailers this week reported their best monthly sales results in
two years. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

L.I. Supporters Seek to Block Army Veteran's Deportation

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., May 11


Elected officials in Suffolk County have taken a hard line on the growing number
of illegal, mostly Hispanic, immigrants who have settled here. But now some
lawmakers have taken up the cause of one illegal immigrant, a Canadian who
served in the United States Army but now faces deportation.

The immigrant, David DeJong, 30, is a single father of three, who came here as a
teenager, graduated from a Long Island high school, enlisted in the Army in 1993
and was honorably discharged in 1998. Afterward, he spent nearly five years in
civilian jobs on United States military bases in Germany and Hungary.

Mr. DeJong had the status of a permanent legal resident when he enlisted. But
during his extended stay overseas, he failed to obtain the proper paperwork to
re-enter the United States or to apply for United States citizenship, costing
him his green card. His lawyer, Donald H. Birnbaum, is challenging the
deportation order issued against Mr. DeJong.

Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said that the agency was aware of Mr. DeJong's case and was looking
into it.

Representative Timothy Bishop, Assemblywoman Patricia Eddington and County
Legislators Jack Eddington and Steven Stern are lobbying federal officials to
reinstate Mr. DeJong's status as a legal resident and put him back on track for
citizenship. His relatives on Long Island have collected more than 3,000
signatures on petitions.

''When I learned of this, I was dismayed, disgusted and outraged,'' Mr.
Eddington -- who is married to Assemblywoman Eddington -- said of the
deportation order at a news conference Thursday morning. ''He is doing exactly
what we have asked our immigrants to do: he has served our country, he pays his
taxes and he obeys our laws.''

Shawn Saucier, a spokesman for the federal Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, which oversees applications for citizenship, said that green-card
holders are not permitted to leave the country for more than a year without
obtaining a re-entry permit or a returning-resident visa. Mr. DeJong has
acknowledged his failure to do so.

Mr. DeJong, who is a student at Suffolk County Community College and hopes to
become a teacher, now lives in Farmingville. The community is widely known for
the Hispanic day laborers who congregate there while waiting for work.

Officials of the county and of Brookhaven Town, which includes Farmingville,
have cracked down on employers who hire illegal immigrants and have raided
houses where some of the workers live.

Mr. Eddington, a Vietnam veteran, said, ''It's mind-boggling that hundreds of
illegal immigrants are allowed to congregate out in public like that while the
feds are trying to deport a U.S. veteran.''

Mr. DeJong's ex-wife is German and his sons -- Markus, who is 6, and Lukas and
Sean, who are 5-year-old twins -- were born in Germany and are eligible for dual
German and Canadian citizenship.

Mr. DeJong said he went to Canada in October to obtain documents to secure
Canadian citizenship for his sons. But he was stopped at the border when he
tried to re-enter the United States.

He said immigration officials told him his green card had been invalidated and
demanded that he sign a document waiving his claim to permanent residency before
they would allow him to re-enter the United States. ''My sons were my first
priority so I signed,'' he said. ''I just wanted to get home.''

Later, Representative Bishop, Democrat of Southampton, helped Mr. DeJong win
temporary residency so he could fight deportation. His next hearing before an
immigration judge is in September.

Asked why he did not apply for United States citizenship, Mr. DeJong said he
should have. ''I thought I was being as American as I could be, serving in the
military,'' he said.

He remained in Germany after his discharge, he said, to take advantage of its
socialized health care, because he had no insurance to pay for multiple
operations to correct his son Markus's heart problem. Mr. DeJong said he has
raised his sons ''to be proud of where they came from but to take pride in where
they are now, as do I.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Nation of Laws and of Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1932 words


Following are excerpts from a transcript of President Bush's speech on
immigration last night, as recorded by The New York Times. A complete
transcript: www.nytimes.com/washington.

I've asked for a few minutes of your time to discuss a matter of national
importance: the reform of America's immigration system.

The issue of immigration stirs intense emotions, and in recent weeks Americans
have seen those emotions on display. On the streets of major cities, crowds have
rallied in support of those in our country illegally. At our southern border,
others have organized to stop illegal immigrants from coming in. Across the
country, Americans are trying to reconcile these contrasting images. And in
Washington, the debate over immigration reform has reached a time of decision.
Tonight, I will make it clear where I stand and where I want to lead our country
on this vital issue.

We must begin by recognizing the problems with our immigration system. For
decades, the United States has not been in complete control of its borders. As a
result, many who want to work in our economy have been able to sneak across our
border, and millions have stayed.

Once here, illegal immigrants live in the shadows of our society. Many use
forged documents to get jobs, and that makes it difficult for employers to
verify that the workers they hire are legal. Illegal immigration puts pressure
on public schools and hospitals. It strains state and local budgets and brings
crime to our communities. These are real problems, yet we must remember that the
vast majority of illegal immigrants are decent people who work hard, support
their families, practice their faith and lead responsible lives. They are part
of American life, but they are beyond the reach and protection of American law.

We're a nation of laws, and we must enforce our laws. We're also a nation of
immigrants, and we must uphold that tradition, which has strengthened our
country in so many ways. These are not contradictory goals. America can be a
lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time. We will fix the
problems created by illegal immigration, and we will deliver a system that is
secure, orderly and fair.

So I support comprehensive immigration reform that will accomplish five clear
objectives.

Securing the Borders

  First, the United States must secure its borders. This is a basic
responsibility of a sovereign nation. It is also an urgent requirement of our
national security. Our objective is straightforward: The border should be open
to trade and lawful immigration and shut to illegal immigrants, as well as
criminals, drug dealers and terrorists.

I was the governor of a state that has a 1,200-mile border with Mexico. So I
know how difficult it is to enforce the border and how important it is. Since I
became president, we've increased funding for border security by 66 percent and
expanded the Border Patrol from about 9,000 to 12,000 agents. The men and women
of our Border Patrol are doing a fine job in difficult circumstances, and over
the past five years they have apprehended and sent home about six million people
entering America illegally.

Despite this progress, we do not yet have full control of the border, and I am
determined to change that. Tonight I'm calling on Congress to provide funding
for dramatic improvements in manpower and technology at the border. By the end
of 2008, we will increase the number of Border Patrol officers by an additional
6,000. When these new agents are deployed, we will have more than doubled the
size of the Border Patrol during my presidency.

At the same time, we are launching the most technologically advanced border
security initiative in American history. We will construct high-tech fences in
urban corridors and build new patrol roads and barriers in rural areas. We will
employ motion sensors, infrared cameras and unmanned aerial vehicles to prevent
illegal crossings. America has the best technology in the world, and we will
ensure that the Border Patrol has the technology they need to do their job and
secure our border.

Training thousands of new Border Patrol agents and bringing the most advanced
technology to the border will take time. Yet the need to secure our border is
urgent. So I'm announcing several immediate steps to strengthen border
enforcement during this period of transition.

One way to help during this transition is to use the National Guard. So in
coordination with governors, up to 6,000 Guard members will be deployed to our
southern border. The Border Patrol will remain in the lead. The Guard will
assist the Border Patrol by operating surveillance systems, analyzing
intelligence, installing fences and vehicle barriers, building patrol roads and
providing training. Guard units will not be involved in direct law enforcement
activities. That duty will be done by the Border Patrol.

This initial commitment of Guard members would last for a period of one year.
After that, the number of Guard forces will be reduced as new Border Patrol
agents and new technologies come online. It is important for Americans to know
that we have enough Guard forces to win the war on terror, to respond to natural
disasters and help secure our border.

The United States is not going to militarize the southern border. Mexico is our
neighbor and our friend. We will continue to work cooperatively to improve
security on both sides of the border, to confront common problems like drug
trafficking and crime and to reduce illegal immigration.

Another way to help during this period of transition is through state and local
law enforcement in our border communities. So we will increase federal funding
for state and local authorities assisting the Border Patrol on targeted
enforcement missions. We will give state and local authorities the specialized
training they need to help federal officers apprehend and detain illegal
immigrants. State and local law enforcement officials are an important part of
our border security and they need to be a part of our strategy to secure our
borders.

The steps I have outlined will improve our ability to catch people entering our
country illegally. At the same time, we must ensure that every illegal immigrant
we catch crossing our southern border is returned home. More than 85 percent of
the illegal immigrants we catch crossing the southern border are Mexicans, and
most are sent back home within 24 hours.

But when we catch illegal immigrants from other countries, it is not as easy to
send them back home. For many years, the government did not have enough space in
our detention facilities to hold them while the legal process unfolded. So most
were released back into our society and asked to return for a court date. When
the date arrived, the vast majority did not show up. This practice, called catch
and release, is unacceptable, and we will end it.

Temporary Worker Program

  Second, to secure our border, we must create a temporary worker program. The
reality is that there are many people on the other side of our border who will
do anything to come to America to work and build a better life. They walk across
miles of desert in the summer heat or hide in the back of 18-wheelers to reach
our country. This creates enormous pressure on our border that walls and patrols
alone will not stop. To secure the border effectively, we must reduce the
numbers of people trying to sneak across.

Therefore, I support a temporary worker program that would create a legal path
for foreign workers to enter our country in an orderly way, for a limited period
of time. This program would match willing foreign workers with willing American
employers for jobs Americans are not doing. Every worker who applies for the
program would be required to pass criminal background checks. And temporary
workers must return to their home country at the conclusion of their stay.

A temporary worker program would meet the needs of our economy, and it would
give honest immigrants a way to provide for their families while respecting the
law. A temporary worker program would reduce the appeal of human smugglers and
make it less likely that people would risk their lives to cross the border. It
would ease the financial burden on state and local governments by replacing
illegal workers with lawful taxpayers. And above all, a temporary worker program
would add to our security by making certain we know who is in our country and
why they are here.

Identification Cards

  Third, we need to hold employers to account for the workers they hire. It is
against the law to hire someone who is in this country illegally. Yet businesses
often cannot verify the legal status of their employees because of the
widespread problem of document fraud. Therefore, comprehensive immigration
reform must include a better system for verifying documents and work
eligibility.

A key part of that system should be a new identification card for every legal
foreign worker. This card should use biometric technology, such as digital
fingerprints, to make it tamperproof. A tamperproof card would help us enforce
the law and leave employers with no excuse for violating it. And by making it
harder for illegal immigrants to find work in our country, we would discourage
people from crossing the border illegally in the first place.

Citizenship and Deportation

  Fourth, we must face the reality that millions of illegal immigrants are here
already. They should not be given an automatic path to citizenship. This is
amnesty, and I oppose it. Amnesty would be unfair to those who are here
lawfully, and it would invite further waves of illegal immigration.

Some in this country argue that the solution is to deport every illegal
immigrant and that any proposal short of this amounts to amnesty. I disagree. It
is neither wise nor realistic to round up millions of people, many with deep
roots in the United States, and send them across the border.

There is a rational middle ground between granting an automatic path to
citizenship for every illegal immigrant and a program of mass deportation. That
middle ground recognizes there are differences between an illegal immigrant who
crossed the border recently and someone who has worked here for many years and
has a home, a family and an otherwise clean record.

I believe that illegal immigrants who have roots in our country and want to stay
should have to pay a meaningful penalty for breaking the law, to pay their
taxes, to learn English and to work in a job for a number of years. People who
meet these conditions should be able to apply for citizenship, but approval
would not be automatic, and they will have to wait in line behind those who
played by the rules and followed the law.

What I've just described is not amnesty; it is a way for those who have broken
the law to pay their debt to society and demonstrate the character that makes a
good citizen.

Speaking English

  Fifth, we must honor the great American tradition of the melting pot, which
has made us one nation out of many peoples. The success of our country depends
upon helping newcomers assimilate into our society and embrace our common
identity as Americans.

Americans are bound together by our shared ideals, an appreciation of our
history, respect for the flag we fly, and an ability to speak and write the
English language. English is also the key to unlocking the opportunity of
America. English allows newcomers to go from picking crops to opening a grocery,
from cleaning offices to running offices, from a life of low-paying jobs to a
diploma, a career and a home of their own.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Fox Tries to Defuse Concerns Over Moving Troops to Border

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: MEXICO; Pg.
21

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 15


A spokesman for President Vicente Fox tried to defuse concerns on Monday about
Washington's plans to send thousands of National Guard troops to reinforce
border security by playing down the move as a logistical and administrative
effort, rather than a military one.

Mexico and the United States remain friends, the spokesman said, adding that
dispatching National Guard troops is not militarization.

Mr. Fox and Mr. Bush continue to agree that strengthening security unilaterally
was not enough to stop the surging flow of illegal immigrants.

The spokesman held out hope that Mr. Bush would press Congress to follow up with
changes to expand immigrants' opportunities to seek work legally in the United
States.

''There is an agreement between the presidents that the problem can only be
resolved in a dynamic way,'' the spokesman, Ruben Aguilar, said at a news
conference.

Referring to a telephone conversation between the presidents on Sunday, Mr.
Aguilar said, ''President Bush said to President Fox that the United States
considers Mexico a friend and that he hopes that the problems of the border can
be resolved in a joint way.''

Political analysts like Guadalupe Gomez at CIDE, a research organization here,
echoed the careful diplomatic language from Mr. Fox's office, saying Mexico
needed to send the message that it was willing to accept increased security in
exchange for expanded ''guest worker'' programs and legalizing illegal
immigrants. Comments by others, however, indicated that even before Mr. Bush
spoke, word of his plans had stirred profound feelings south of the border,
because of the specter of American military intervention.

Putting National Guard troops on the border, some political analysts said, was
just the latest in a long series of moves by the Bush administration to
underscore how dramatically different the United States and Mexico see illegal
immigration.

The deployment, Peter Hakim of the Inter-American Dialogue said, sends a message
that Mr. Bush has bowed to pressure from the most conservative leaders in the
Republican Party to make border policy without regard for Mexico's interests.

It also sends a message, other political analysts said, that the United States
views immigrants as a military threat.

In a country where an estimated 400,000 people a year move legally and illegally
to the United States, troops along the border could stir such a firestorm that
it could turn migration into a pivotal issue in the coming presidential
election.

''We are not stupid,'' Jorge Montano, a former ambassador to the United States,
said. ''The United States did not send the National Guard to Iraq for logistical
purposes. This is a de facto militarization of the border and an unprecedented
insult in relations between the two countries.''

News about the proposed deployment began to filter here on Friday and made the
front pages of most Mexican daily newspapers on Saturday. On Sunday, Mr. Fox
called Mr. Bush to express his concerns and obtain details about the plans.

Mr. Fox has staked significant political capital on building closer ties to the
United States at a time when several Latin American nations have elected
presidents who seek greater independence from United States influence. Mr. Fox
was the first state visitor to the Bush White House in 2001. On that visit, he
capitalized on his close relationship with Mr. Bush to challenge the United
States to adopt changes that would, among other points, expand programs for
guest workers and legalize millions of illegal workers.

The attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, delayed those plans. And the relations between
the two governments chilled as the fight against terrorism and the Iraq war led
to further delays.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimated that more than half of the approximately 11.5
million illegal immigrants in the United States were from Mexico.

As Mr. Fox's time in office winds to an end, the outcome of the immigration
debate in the United States Congress could become a stumbling block for the
candidate who Mr. Fox hopes will succeed him. According to at least three major
polls, the candidate, Felipe Calderon, from Mr. Fox's conservative National
Action Party, has pulled ahead of his main rival, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, a
leftist populist.

Officials in Mr. Calderon's campaign acknowledged that they were worried that
troops along the border could hurt their candidate.

Another official in Mr. Calderon's campaign, Arturo Sarukhan, said Mr. Calderon
did not consider dispatching the troops the equivalent of militarization but
added that Mr. Calderon did not support the plan.

Manuel Camacho Solis, an official in the campaign for Mr. Lopez Obrador, called
the deployment a ''historic measure.''

''This is something that is difficult to accept,'' Mr. Camacho said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 2006



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about efforts by President Vicente Fox of
Mexico to defuse concerns about United States plans to use National Guard troops
for border security misstated the surname of a political analyst who said Mexico
needed to show it was willing to accept such measures. She is Guadalupe
Gonzalez, not Gomez.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plan Met With Warnings That It Won't Be Enough

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS; David S. Cloud and Carl Hulse contributed reporting
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE
REACTION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1000 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 15


With his proposal to send 6,000 National Guard troops to temporarily help secure
the border, President Bush vowed on Monday to stanch the waves of illegal
immigrants pouring into the United States. But several Congressional
Republicans, former administration officials and Border Patrol agents warned
that the Guard plan, by itself, seemed to amount to little more than a
short-term fix to one of the nation's most intractable problems.

And some questioned whether the Bush administration was truly committed to
longer-term solutions, noting that White House officials had failed in recent
years to meet the administration's own goals for increasing the number of border
security agents and beds in immigration detention centers.

Under the plan, teams of National Guard troops would work on the border for
shifts of two to three weeks, providing logistical, surveillance and civil
engineering support to Border Patrol agents who would retain sole responsibility
for apprehending illegal immigrants. The initial commitment of National Guard
troops would last for a year; after that, the force would be scaled back and
replaced with newly hired Border Patrol agents, with the goal of hiring 6,000
more agents by 2008, for a total of more than 18,000.

Janice L. Kephart, who served as a counsel to the Sept. 11 commission, said the
National Guard had played a useful supporting role to the Border Patrol in the
past, helping to build fences and providing equipment and intelligence
assistance. But expanding that sort of assistance is not nearly enough on its
own, she said.

''It's a temporary bolstering that will give a false sense of security that will
ultimately be removed in a year,'' said Ms. Kephart, who studied the nation's
border security system for the commission.

''The National Guard has always been there, and unless they have a plan for
using them that is really viable and strong, I think we'll end up with minimal
help out of this,'' she said. ''I don't see a strategy here.''

C. Stewart Verdery Jr., who was assistant secretary for border security policy
in the Department of Homeland Security from 2003 to 2005, said he thought the
National Guard would help by giving border agents more time to focus on
apprehending illegal immigrants.

''Anything that could be done to keep the agents on the front line doing their
specialized enforcement activity is a good thing,'' he said.

But he said that would in turn create a rising demand for detention beds, a
demand that seemed unlikely to be met.

''If anybody realistically crunches the numbers of apprehensions, a number that
is likely to go up, and the amount of bed space we're talking about, there's a
huge disconnect in those numbers,'' said Mr. Verdery, who is an adjunct fellow
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''The crucial thing is
that it's up to Congress to fund these line items.''

Mr. Bush promised last year to increase the number of detention beds to ensure
that immigrants from countries other than Mexico were not simply released after
they were apprehended. But in the first seven months of the 2006 fiscal year,
39,385 such immigrants were released, about 51 percent of the total apprehended,
Homeland Security statistics show.

White House officials said on Monday that they intended to increase the number
of detention beds from 18,500 in the 2005 fiscal year to 27,500 by the end of
the fiscal year 2007. But that is still significantly fewer than what was
promised in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act, which Mr. Bush
signed into law in 2004.

That law called for the number of detention beds to increase by 8,000 a year
beginning in 2006, according to the Congressional Research Service. If fully
financed, that would mean a total of 34,500 beds by the end of the fiscal year
2007 -- about 7,000 more than administration officials were promising on Monday.

The law also called for an increase of 2,000 Border Patrol agents per year for
four years, beginning in the 2006 fiscal year. For that year, the Bush
administration requested an increase of only 210 border agents, according to
House Republicans who track domestic security spending. White House officials
said they planned to increase the number of agents by 2,500 in the 2007 fiscal
year and 3,000 in 2008.

''It's one thing to promise something,'' said T. J. Bonner, the president of the
union that represents the nation's Border Patrol agents. ''Show me the money.''

Conservatives who track the issue were even more critical, dismissing the
president's plan as little more than a political stunt to placate conservatives.

''He's throwing a bone,'' said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which advocates for tighter limits on immigration. ''It's a
way to appease the base. That's all it is. Focusing on the National Guard as the
highlight or the centerpiece of policy is not just absurd, it's almost
insulting.''

Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, also criticized the Bush
administration as failing to meet its commitments to increase the number of
border agents and said he worried about the strains placed on the National
Guard.

''The president's budget requested and his Republican Congress funded fewer
agents than we knew that we needed,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''And the president's
proposal raises serious questions about the future of the National Guard. If
Guard members are going to forgo their regular training to patrol the border,
are they going to be prepared the next time we have an emergency at home or
abroad?''

Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, warned that Mr. Bush's efforts
would not appease conservative critics. ''A few steps, including calling out the
National Guard, significant though they may be, will not change the pervasive
illegality of our current immigration system to one that works,'' said Mr.
Sessions, who opposed Mr. Bush's plan to legalize millions of illegal workers.
''And the American people know it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, the President's Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 149 words



To the Editor:

Re ''President Calls for Compromise on Immigration'' (front page, May 16):

President Bush chose to tinker with the immigration crisis but not to fix it.

Sending a few troops to the border is a token gesture to make it appear as if
the president is taking tough action. He deliberately ignored the cause of the
crisis: employers who hire illegal immigrants and federal officials who allow
them to get away with it.

The president knows that if the under-the-table jobs disappear, the illegal
immigrants will go home. He proposes a thinly disguised amnesty to reward people
who strong-armed their way into our country.

He knows that guest workers will never leave voluntarily, and he will never make
them leave.

His disservice to our country on immigration is so serious that he and his party
deserve to be abandoned by mainstream voters.

Bill Sipple
Lafayette, Ind., May 16, 2006


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter O. Zierlein)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, the President's Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 116 words



To the Editor:

''Border Illusions'' (editorial, May 16) just shows how people take away
different impressions even when hearing the same words.

Rather than a speech pandering to the right, as the editorial implies, I heard a
balanced, thoughtful and pragmatic proposal for addressing the immigration
problem.

Border enforcement must be stepped up now, and use of the National Guard to
supplement our current efforts there seems sensible as an interim step.

Rather than ignore the need for a comprehensive solution, the president offered
a workable plan, and showed the very sensitivity to the plight of illegal
immigrants that the editorial found so lacking.

James Stanley
Naples, Fla., May 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Now Favors Some Fencing Along Border

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 545 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz., May 18


President Bush traveled on Thursday to a blistering stretch of scrub land
surrounding the nation's busiest Border Patrol station and declared that he
supported fencing some but not all of America's 1,950-mile border with Mexico.

''It makes sense to use fencing along the border in key locations in order to do
our job,'' Mr. Bush said in a speech at the headquarters of the Yuma Sector
Border Patrol. ''We're in the process of making our border the most
technologically advanced border in the world.''

Mr. Bush has in the past indicated he is opposed to fencing, and White House
officials were kept busy on Thursday trying to explain the change in his
position. Tony Snow, the new White House press secretary, told reporters on Air
Force One that the White House supported a Senate amendment, passed on
Wednesday, that would build 370 miles of fence in areas most often used by
smugglers and illegal workers.

''We don't think you fence off the entire border,'' Mr. Snow said. But, he
added, ''there are places when fences are appropriate.''

Earlier on Thursday, Mr. Bush sent a letter to Congress requesting $1.9 billion
to pay for putting up to 6,000 more National Guard troops on the border with
Mexico. The troops were the main news in his immigration speech on Monday.

The request for money and Mr. Bush's tough words on fencing amounted to his
latest effort to win over House conservatives who want an immigration bill
focused on strengthening border security instead of a temporary guest worker
program favored by the Senate. Mr. Bush likes the Senate plan, which would give
most of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants a chance to become American
citizens, but he is trying to meld both approaches into a single bill that he
hopes will be the major legislation of his remaining two years as president.

''Our country is a country of laws, and we've got to enforce our laws,'' Mr.
Bush said at the Border Patrol headquarters, where outside temperatures reached
104 degrees. ''But we're also a nation of immigrants. And we've got to remember
that proud tradition, as well, which has strengthened our country in many
ways.''

Mr. Bush said that he believed a temporary worker program would reduce the
number of people trying to enter the country illegally. Hundreds of Mexicans
have died in the heat in recent years trying to enter the country through the
Sonoran Desert, between Yuma in the west and Nogales, Ariz., to the east. Since
October 2005, the Yuma sector of the Border Patrol, which stretches for some 125
miles along the desert boundary between the United States and Mexico, has
reported 17 deaths.

''I understand there are many people on the other side of the border who will do
anything to come and work,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And that includes risking their
life crossing your desert, or being willing to be stuffed in the back of an
18-wheeler.''

The president was met here by Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, and then toured
a dirt field a few hundred feet from the border, where there were five watch
towers and a fence of corrugated metal about 20 feet high.

After the tour, Mr. Bush gave back-to-back interviews of three to five minutes
each to five broadcast and cable networks -- CNN, Fox, NBC, ABC, CBS -- to press
his immigration plan.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush toured part of the Mexican border yesterday near
San Luis, Ariz., as he tried to win support for his immigration bill. The driver
of the vehicle was Agent Rocky Kittle of the Border Patrol. (Photo by Sandy
Huffaker/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suit Says Preacher Cheated Immigrants

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: PLAINFIELD, N.J., May 19


On many Sundays last year, illegal immigrants crowded into the pews of the
two-story Salvation Army church adjacent to town hall in this central New Jersey
town to hear a charismatic preacher speak of God and offer promises to make them
legal. Speaking in Spanish, he told the congregants, many of them Latinos, that
if they each paid $4,000 and gave $500 donations to the church he could be their
''bridge'' to becoming Americans.

But according to a lawsuit filed on Friday in state court, the preacher, the
Rev. Enoc Tito Sotelo, under the name of the Salvation Army, took their money
without producing any results. The lawsuit, alleging a violation of New Jersey
Consumer Fraud Law, names Mr. Sotelo, Jorge Sancho, a Salvation Army captain
formerly assigned to the organization's nearby Bound Brook office, and the
Salvation Army itself.

Gilberto Garcia, the lawyer representing the plaintiffs, said that Mr. Sotelo
and Mr. Sancho used the Salvation Army's reputation to harm people who were
seeking help. The Salvation Army, he said, should have known about their
activities.

''It's the equivalent of an automobile dealer who has a crooked salesperson
selling cars for them for a long period of time,'' Mr. Garcia said. Trish
Pelligrini, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey chapter of the Salvation Army said
that the organization had not seen the lawsuit and could not comment on its
assertions.

But she said that after complaints about Mr. Sotelo and Mr. Sancho appeared last
month in El Diario/La Prensa, the Spanish-language newspaper, the Salvation Army
fired Mr. Sotelo. She said Mr. Sancho was dismissed from his job at the Bound
Brook office last November. Both men have since moved out of the area and could
not be reached for comment because their whereabouts were unknown.

Ms. Pelligrini said that she did not know the precise reasons for the
dismissals. But she said that Major Stephen Banfield, the New Jersey Salvation
Army's divisional commander, conducted an internal investigation into the
complaints described in El Diario. Mr. Sotelo was fired after that
investigation, she said. Major Banfield was not available for comment, she said.

Amy Gottlieb, program director of the American Friends Service Committee's
Immigration Rights Program, said she expects that schemes to defraud immigrants
are on the rise because Congress is debating legislation to crack down on
illegal immigration.

''At a time when there are rumors of amnesty and debates about changes in the
law, all along with continued raids and increased fears, desperation for the
green card and legal status just increases,'' Ms. Gottlieb said.''People trust
the Salvation Army and go to them when they are desperate and so this is
particularly worrisome.''

Mr. Garcia said that the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Law does not bar illegal
immigrants from filing lawsuits.

One of the plaintiffs, Angela Martinez, said in an interview that she and her
husband were drawn to the Salvation Army Church in Plainfield after hearing
other illegal immigrants describe a pastor who spoke of how, through prayer and
the help of his well-known organization, he could help them obtain legal status.

''It wasn't secret,'' said Ms. Martinez, 35, a mother of three from Uruguay.
''It was in the open so it had to be true.''

In the court papers and in the interview, Ms. Martinez used her mother's family
name. She normally uses her married name, but asked that it be withheld to
protect her from deportation. Ms. Martinez said that Mr. Sotelo told them that
for a cash payment of $4,000 and a cash donation of $500 to the church, he could
arrange to have a lawyer in Florida help her husband obtain legal status. The
pastor told them that they would have to fly at their own expense to Florida
where he said the church had good contacts with immigration officials, she said
in the interview.

Last June, she said, her husband paid $15 for an identification card that stated
that he worked with the Salvation Army, and was taken from the Plainfield church
in a Salvation Army van to Kennedy International Airport. According to the
lawsuit, the immigrants were told that the identification card and a T-shirt
with the Salvation Army name and logo would allow them to avoid any questions
about their immigration status at airport security points.

In West Palm Beach, Fla., Ms. Martinez's husband and about six others filled out
immigration applications for ''aliens of special ability.'' Her husband had
worked detailing and customizing automobiles. But the immigrants never met with
a lawyer they had been told would help them. It is not clear whether all of
their applications were filed, the lawsuit says.

As their patience with Mr. Sotelo waned, the immigrants, contacted Carmen
Zalavarietta, a board member of Centro Hispanoamericano of Plainfield, a
non-profit community organization that helps illegal immigrants gain legal
status and government benefits. She put the immigrants in touch with Mr. Garcia,
the lawyer.

''They wanted to believe so badly,'' Ms. Zalavarietta said. ''He told them that
God had brought them this opportunity to get a green card.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Unforgiving Arizona-Mexico Border, Tide of Desperation Is Overwhelming

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1566 words

DATELINE: ARIVACA, Ariz., May 18


All the talk in Washington about putting walls and soldiers along the border
with Mexico did not stop Miguel Espindola from trying to cross the most
inhospitable part of it this week with his wife and two small children.

Their 6-year-old daughter, Karla, clutched her mother's back pocket with one
hand and a bottle of Gatorade with the other as the family set out across the
Sonora Desert on Thursday. Miguelito, 7, lugged a backpack that seemed to weigh
almost as much as he did.

''Yes, there is risk, but there is also need,'' said Mr. Espindola, explaining
why he had brought his children on a journey that killed 464 immigrants last
year, and a 3-year-old boy this week.

Looking out at the vast parched landscape ahead, Mr. Espindola, a coffee farmer,
talked about the poverty he had left behind, and said: ''Our damned government
forces us to leave our country because it does not give us good salaries. The
United States forces us to go this way.''

Here at ground zero for the world's largest and longest wave of illegal
migration, about the only thing that is clear is that easy answers do not apply.
During a drive along a narrow highway that runs parallel to the line, it is hard
to see how increased law enforcement and advanced technologies will stop an
exodus made up predominantly of Mexicans willing to risk everything.

Meanwhile, it becomes easier to understand the conflicting attitudes about
migrants that have not only strained relations between the United States and its
neighbors to the south, but also tested America's identity as a melting pot.

In the last five years, Arizona has become the principal, and deadliest, gateway
for illegal migrants. It accounts for nearly one-third of the 1.5 million people
captured for illegally crossing the border last year, and nearly half the
migrants who died, according to the United States Border Patrol.

Those figures have inspired competing responses.

After the 3-year-old boy was found dead this week in the desert, some local law
enforcement authorities called for charging his mother, Edith Rodriguez Reyes,
with reckless endangerment. The authorities at the Mexican consulate here said
Ms. Rodriguez was a victim of smugglers and demanded that she be released.

The mesquite-covered landscape here was a base for the Minuteman militias, who
have threatened to take the law into their own hands in defense of America's
southern border.

It is also home to so-called border Samaritans, who scour the desert in search
of migrants in distress to deliver water, medical attention and, sometimes,
advice on how to avoid detention.

''This is a token deployment of unarmed and grossly inadequate numbers of
National Guardsmen,'' a Minuteman spokeswoman, Connie Hair, told The Arizona
Daily Star. Ms. Hair said the troops would be placed in the ''same demoralizing
position as the Border Patrol, outmanned and outgunned against international
crime cartels.''

Jim Walsh, a volunteer with the Samaritans, was not optimistic either, but for
different reasons. ''With this president and this Congress,'' he said, ''it's
not going to be too humane.''

Worried about the enormous drain on taxpayers, voters here passed a ballot
initiative intended to limit immigrants' access to public services. Meanwhile,
economists like Marshall Vest at the University of Arizona said the illegal
immigrants were an important source of labor for the booming construction and
tourism industries that had helped make Arizona the second-fastest growing
state, after Nevada.

When Mr. Bush deploys an estimated 6,000 National Guard troops to the border, it
is expected that most will be sent here in an effort to seal off the desert. So
this is likely to be the place where the successes and failures of the policy
will unfold.

Arizona has been hurt by ''bad immigration policies,'' said Laura Briggs, an
associate professor of women's studies at the University of Arizona, and a
member of the border Samaritans. ''There is a long tradition of hospitality in
the borderlands, and this rising death toll is stressing everybody out.''

Those conflicting interests, and growing frustrations, come to life on Arivaca
Road, which runs about 14 miles west of Interstate 19, on the way to Sasabe,
Mexico.

Once a bucolic settlement of horse and cattle ranchers, the area around the
highway has been overrun, according to residents, by illegal immigrants who move
in groups of up to 80 at a time, and up to a thousand a day in the peak winter
season. Residents must also contend with the buzz of Border Patrol agents in
trucks and helicopters.

Frank Ormsby, a rancher, and his brother, Lloyd, said that after living for more
than a decade in the middle of the buildup of the Border Patrol and the growing
waves of immigrants, they were just plain sick of all of it. There are more
backpacks littering the desert than rocks, they said, and enough money is being
spent on equipment for the Border Patrol to rebuild New Orleans.

To them, illegal immigration is a huge business managed by powerful interests to
make money and political careers. Among the beneficiaries, Frank Ormsby said,
were immigrant smugglers, whose fortunes increased every time a new law
enforcement effort was announced, and the Border Patrol, whose budget has
increased fivefold in 10 years.

''There are so many agents they could stand hand-in-hand across the border and
stop illegal immigrants if they really wanted to,'' said Mr. Ormsby from beneath
a wide black cowboy hat. ''The money we are spending on the Border Patrol, in
gas, in equipment, in technology, what do we have to show for it?''

''I see so much waste,'' he added. ''Ray Charles could see it.''

A couple miles down the road, two sunburned men, their clothes tattered and
their lips severely chapped, look the image of needy. Raul Calderon, 60, and his
22-year-old son Samuel, had been walking in the desert heat for four days.

Natives of the western Mexican state of Michoacan, they said they had been
abandoned by the smuggler -- known among immigrants here as ''coyotes'' -- they
had hired on the second day of their journey.

On the third night, the men said, they lost track of the 10 other people
traveling with them in the darkness. And by the fourth morning, they had run out
of food and water.

''Our government has forgotten about us,'' the father said. Then nodding toward
his son, he added, ''Each generation stays as poor as the last.''

Mr. Calderon said his native town of Churintzio had been nearly emptied by
migration to the United States. He himself had gone back and forth across the
border for much of the last two decades. But he said he had spent the last five
years in Mexico, trying to start his own restaurant.

His son, on the other hand, had made enough money working in restaurants between
San Antonio and Corpus Christi to return to Michoacan and build a home. Now the
two of them were off to the United States again to seek more work, this time in
California.

Mr. Calderon said he had heard that President Bush ''is going to give work
permits, and so I have come to get one.''

He would not, however, get one this day. Border Patrol helicopters buzzed
overhead. A few minutes later came the trucks. And without much of an exchange,
Mr. Calderon and his son were taken away.

''It's like saying we're going to stop crime,'' said a Border Patrol spokesman,
Gustavo Soto, when asked whether the presence of the Guard would stop
undocumented immigrants from coming. ''It's hard to say that we will be able to
stop all people fromcoming across the border. But we can achieve better
control.''

On the Mexican side of the border, Mexican immigration agents said they felt
helpless in stopping the immigrants, even though the law prohibits citizens from
leaving through unofficial ports.

Hundreds of people, carrying backpacks and gallon jugs of water, filed into the
desert on Thursday. Among them, were Karla and Miguelito, neither one of them
more than four feet tall.

In a speech cut short so that the migrants could be on their way before sundown,
Mario Lopez, an agent in Grupo Beta, a Mexican government agency that seeks to
protect the migrants, advised the men, women and children about the dangers of
their illegal journey and advised them of their rights in case they were
apprehended by the Border Patrol.

''This is a sad reality,'' he said. ''We hate to see our people leaving this
way. But what can we do, except wish them luck.''

Bush Presses for Legislation

  WASHINGTON, May 20 (Reuters) -- President Bush on Saturday again encouraged
the Senate to pass an immigration overhaul bill before its Memorial Day break.

Mr. Bush used his weekly radio address to increase pressure on senators debating
legislation that couples tighter border controls with a guest-worker program and
gives a path to citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants.

''The House started the debate by passing an immigration bill,'' Mr. Bush said.
''Now the Senate should act by the end of this month, so we can work out the
differences between the two bills and Congress can pass a bill for me to sign
into law.''

Democrats, in their weekly radio address, criticized the immigration plan. ''At
a time when our country needed a detailed, long-term solution, we instead
received short-term window dressing fixes,'' said Representative Michael M.
Honda of California, who delivered the address.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: With a Border Patrol helicopter buzzing overhead, a Mexican
father and son, Raul and Samuel Calderon, tried to hide. After walking four days
in desert heat, they were captured by the Border Patrol in Arizona.
Illegal immigrants from Mexico trekking through the Arizona desert. Hundreds of
thousands cross the border, some in groups of up to 80.
 Karla Espindola, left, 6, and brother, Miguelito, 7, illegal immigrants from
Mexico, crossing the Arizona desert with a cousin who did not want to be
identified. Some 464 migrants died last year on the same trip. (Photographs by
Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Legal and Otherwise

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 127 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Way North of the Border'' (April 30): Immigrants here legally are O.K. But
illegal immigrants have with deliberate forethought violated our borders and
laws.

Deport them. If there is no one to care for their children, born here, give them
a choice. Take the children with them, and we will give the kids United States
passports. Or put the children in the care of the state child welfare agencies.

Those who employ illegal immigrants should be fined a mandatory $10,000 for each
one they employ. No business or private citizen can long afford a mandatory
$10,000 fine per count. Jobs will open up for legal immigrants to replace them.

It is past time to stop coddling illegal immigrants. They do not deserve
amnesty.

Peter J. Peirano
Ridgewood

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Illegal Immigrants Fighting Wildfires, West Faces a Dilemma

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

DATELINE: SALEM, Ore.


The debate over immigration, which has filtered into almost every corner of
American life in recent months, is now sweeping through the woods, and the
implications could be immense for the coming fire season in the West.

As many as half of the roughly 5,000 private firefighters based in the Pacific
Northwest and contracted by state and federal governments to fight forest fires
are immigrants, mostly from Mexico. And an untold number of them are working
here illegally.

A recent report by the inspector general for the United States Forest Service
said illegal immigrants had been fighting fires for several years. The Forest
Service said in response that it would work with immigration and customs
enforcement officers and the Social Security Administration to improve the
process of identifying violators.

At the same time, the State of Oregon, which administers private fire contracts
for the Forest Service, imposed tougher rules on companies that employ
firefighters, including a requirement that firefighting crew leaders have a
working command of English and a formal business location where crew members can
assemble.

Some Hispanic contractors say the state and federal changes could cause many
immigrants, even those here legally, to stay away from the jobs. Other forestry
workers say firefighting jobs may simply be too important -- and too hard to
fill -- to allow for a crackdown on illegal workers.

''I don't think it's in anybody's interest, including the Forest Service, to
enforce immigration -- they're benefiting from it,'' said Blanca Escobeda, owner
of 3B's Forestry in Medford, Ore., which fields two 20-person fire crews. Ms.
Escobeda said all of her workers were legal.

Some fire company owners estimate that 10 percent of the firefighting crews are
illegal immigrants; government officials will not even hazard a guess.

The private contract crews can be dispatched anywhere in the country through the
National Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho -- and in recent years have
fought fires from Montana to Utah and Colorado, as well as Washington and Oregon
-- anywhere that fires get too big or too numerous for local entities to handle.

The work, which pays $10 to $15 an hour, is among the most demanding and
dangerous in the West. A workweek fighting a big fire can go 100 hours.

''You've got to be physically able and mentally able,'' said Javier Orozco, 21,
who has fought fires in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Colorado, California and
Montana since 2002.

The plight of the fire companies underscores the surprising directions that the
debate over immigration can lead, like government-required bilingualism to
ensure everyone on a fire line can understand one another, while threatening to
scare away needed workers.

Serafin Garcia, who came from Mexico as a farmworker in the mid-1980's and
started a fire company in Salem, which is just south of Portland, in 2001, said
the new rules could ruin him. Not only is he likely to lose workers, but some
industry officials suggest that larger fire companies, which tend to be owned by
non-Hispanics, could crush smaller competitors like Mr. Garcia, using
immigration and safety concerns as a smokescreen.

''I'm right on the edge this year, and may be out of business,'' Mr. Garcia
said. Oregon state fire officials say the rule changes have nothing to do with
immigration at all -- nor, they say, is there any effort to shift the business
away from Hispanic entrepreneurs.

''It's an unfortunate coincidence,'' said Bill Lafferty, director of the
Protection From Fire Program for Oregon's Department of Forestry. ''All we want
as a government is a good, productive, safe work force.''

Mr. Lafferty said the industry grew too fast to be well regulated, especially
during and after the bad wildfire seasons in 2000 and 2002. Between 1999 and
2003 alone, according to state figures, the number of contracted 20-person crews
doubled, to about 300. State and federal officials expect to need about 237
private crews this year, based on the projections for the fire season.

Some firefighters say the growth reflected the government's willingness to look
the other way on immigration issues in the interest of keeping the forests
protected. The federal work force was being reduced by budget cuts, and the
fires exposed the resulting vulnerability.

''It became a game of winking and nodding -- we're not going to check -- so more
and more contractors went almost exclusively to Hispanic or Latino labor,'' said
Scott Coleman, who ran a forestry company in the Eugene area for more than 30
years until his retirement this year.

A spokeswoman for the Forest Service, Rose Davis, said the agency followed
federal law in hiring contractors, but relied on the contractors to make sure
individual workers had the documents they needed.

''In the contract it specifies that if you're going to bring us a crew, they
must be eligible to work in the United States,'' she said.

Ms. Davis conceded that oversight in checking up on those contracts had not been
the agency's top priority, but that the inspector general's report would lead to
more attention.

Fire company owners say they rely on workers to tell the truth and provide
documentation.

''They show me documents and ID that's good enough for me,'' said Jose Orozco,
Javier Orozco's father, who runs two fire companies of mostly Mexican workers
from his base in Sheridan, just west of Salem.

State labor officials in Oregon say they do not look at immigration issues when
it comes to the forestry companies. Their job, they say, is making sure people
are treated fairly by employers.

But fair treatment in the forestry and firefighting business, labor experts say,
is uneven at best. Sometimes, they say, fire companies drive hours to a fire
only to find there is no work because the fire is out and workers do not get
paid -- or they fight the fire and do not get the wages they are entitled to
receive after expenses and travel are deducted.

"The issue is not immigration, it's the powerlessness of the workers," said D.
Michael Dale, executive director of the Northwest Workers' Justice Project, a
nonprofit legal advocacy group based in Portland.

In other ways, the contract firefighter world -- especially in language training
-- is becoming a laboratory for how the issues of a multilingual, multicultural
work force are managed.

Elva Orozco sees both sides of the debate. Her son, Javier, was born in Oregon
and has been a crew leader since 2002. His English is good. Her husband, Jose,
who immigrated from Mexico in the 1970's, started their fire crew business in
the early 1990's, and sometimes still struggles with the language. She thinks
that Jose may not be able to pass the new language requirements. And maybe, she
added, that could be for the best.

''They've got to be safe,'' she said.

Other people in the business say that whatever the motivations are for the
contract changes, immigrants will be hurt the most. Dillon Sanders, for one, is
fine with that.

Mr. Sanders, who said he was a disabled military veteran from the Persian Gulf
war, started a fire company last year near Portland, but found himself underbid
by minority contractors who he thinks were not following the rules about pay or
contracts. He has hired only American-born crews, he said.

''The new system clearly discriminates against minority contractors,'' Mr.
Sanders said, ''but that gives me an edge, and I'll take it.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, firefighters in Oregon attending a safety course. Above,
Jose Orozco, who runs two private fire companies of mostly Mexican workers.
 Firefighters in Oregon who work for privately owned companies participating in
a skills refresher course, which they were required to pass. (Photographs by
Melanie Conner for The New York Times)(pg. 26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Promise for Immigrants Who Seek Hospital Care

BYLINE: By TONI WHITT; Sewell Chan contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words


The city's Health and Hospitals Corporation and the mayor's office said
yesterday that they were taking aggressive steps to reassure immigrants that no
one will question their status when they seek care at New York City's public
hospitals.

In a letter distributed in 11 languages, the corporation's president, Alan D.
Aviles, promises city residents that public hospital employees will ''keep
confidential all information regarding your immigration status.'' If they do
not, Mr. Aviles wrote, they may lose their jobs. The agency and the Mayor's
Office of Immigrant Affairs is sending out the letters because advocacy groups
have been reporting that many undocumented immigrants are afraid of going to
hospitals because they think that when they are asked for personal and financial
information, hospital workers will realize they are in the country illegally and
report them.

Mr. Aviles cited the case of a mother of three who arrived in New York from
Mexico eight months ago and was afraid to seek treatment for cervical cancer.
After an advocacy group intervened on her behalf, the woman was scheduled for
treatment at one of the city's hospitals. Another immigrant, a construction
worker, broke his foot and instead of going to the hospital, went to a friend of
a friend -- ''a so-called expert'' -- for treatment, Mr. Aviles said.

Dr. Warren Seigel, chairman of the department of pediatrics at Coney Island
Hospital, has had patients ask to meet him in a private office, rather than at
the hospital.

''It's part and parcel of providing medical care,'' Mr. Aviles said. ''There has
to be a system of trust between health care providers and the patients.''

To ensure that the city's public hospitals are able to build and keep that
trust, Mr. Aviles sent a letter to all 39,000 employees at the agency reminding
them of the confidentiality policy. In addition he plans to go on rounds with
the staff for the next month to make sure that all employees know the policy and
that they serve as ambassadors for the public hospitals.

''It's a public health issue,'' Mr. Aviles said. ''It's foolish for us not to do
this.''

He said that if fear kept immigrants away, ''all the work we have done to
improve the health of our communities -- getting more children vaccinated,
increasing prenatal care, reducing teen pregnancy, managing diabetes and
reducing the spread of H.I.V./AIDS -- could potentially come undone.''

Adam Gurvitch, director of health advocacy for the New York Immigrant Coalition,
an umbrella group for more than 150 immigrant organizations, said that because
the national immigration debate was causing so much confusion, his group was
calling for the hospital industry, both public and private, to remind employees
and patients that personal information is confidential and is not shared with
government agencies.

Despite the continuing disagreements over immigration policy, ''it's really
important for people to understand that nothing has changed,'' Mr. Gurvitch
said. ''Health care remains a right for all people in America, for all
immigrants, regardless of immigration status.''

The policy is in line with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's executive order that
generally forbids city agencies from inquiring about or disclosing the
immigration status of New Yorkers who come into contact with city government.
Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that he was concerned about the studies that show
undocumented immigrants afraid of going to a hospital.

Mr. Bloomberg again criticized the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
''All of this is a problem because 20 years ago Congress did not do what they
were supposed to do: address the problem of people coming into this country
illegally,'' he said.

The immigration debate aside, Guillermo Linares, commissioner for the Office of
Immigrant Affairs, said that the campaign to make sure immigrants received
proper health care benefited the city. ''A healthy New Yorker keeps a healthy
city, and that's why we're here,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan D. Aviles, the president of New York City's Health and
Hospitals Corporation, announced a campaign yesterday to have public hospitals
guard the immigration status of people seeking treatment. Many illegal
immigrants fear that seeking care at a hospital will lead to deportation. (Photo
by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Families Are Deported

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 73 words


Ten families were deported to Honduras under a new policy allowing federal
authorities to speed the return of some illegal immigrant families, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement said. Of the 120 illegal immigrants flown back to
Honduras from San Antonio on Thursday, 21 were part of families sent back under
the new policy, the agency said. The change lets the authorities return illegal
immigrants to their home countries without a hearing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Angry Exchanges, To and Fro, at Rally

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 539 words


Under drizzly skies, about 40 demonstrators holding up signs that included
''Illegal Aliens: I Want You Out of My Country'' and ''Honk If You're Against
Amnesty'' gathered yesterday in front of the Mexican Consulate in Midtown
Manhattan.

The protest followed large rallies in New York and other cities in recent weeks
calling for citizenship for illegal immigrants, and prompted a smaller but just
as loud counterdemonstration across the street.

As neighbors in elegant town houses on East 39th Street looked down, the
demonstrators, standing in front of a large American flag, sang ''America the
Beautiful,'' while a counterdemonstrator played ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' on
a polished trumpet. Demonstrators chanted various versions of ''Go home,'' as
the counterdemonstrators shouted, ''Who you calling immigrant, pilgrim?''

The confrontations never escalated beyond jaw-jutting shouting matches, but one
participant was still fuming minutes later.

Cursing, Dan Hahulski, 26, of Woodhaven, Queens, said he was not a racist but
simply opposed to illegal immigration. ''If you woke up one morning and I was
camped out on your backyard, what would you do? You'd kick me out,'' said Mr.
Hahulski, a construction worker.

A counterdemonstrator, Maria Sanchez, also 26, a home attendant from the Bronx,
was equally emotional. With her daughter, Delia, 10, by her side, Ms. Sanchez
said, ''They're not going after illegal immigrants, they're going after the
Mexican community.''

She said her parents had taken her to the United States legally when she was 5.
She added, ''Look at what that sign says, 'Just Say No to Mexico.' All their
banners just say Mexican, Mexican, Mexican.''

Police officers watched for trouble and counted down the minutes on the
hour-and-a-half city permit for the rally. There were no arrests.

Last week, the Senate passed a landmark immigration bill that calls for tighter
border controls and would give most illegal immigrants a chance to become
American citizens. But it has not been reconciled with a House bill that has no
provision for citizenship.

Saturday's rally began around 11 a.m. and was organized by Jason Megill, 30, a
Wall Street trader originally from Iowa City.

Three months ago, Mr. Megill said, he joined the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps,
a citizen border patrol that aids federal officials. The group has also been
criticized as a right-wing militia. Other organizations at the rally were New
Yorkers for Immigration Control and Enforcement, Eagle Forum, SOS Borders and
the National Traditionalist Caucus.

The demonstrators were on their own until a lone woman, Jennifer Roesch, started
shouting from across the street, ''Immigrants are welcome here!'' The
demonstrators shouted back, with one shouting ''Communist!''

As it turns out, Ms. Roesch, 34, said she was a member of the International
Socialist Organization, a Trotskyite group. She helped gather about a dozen
counterdemonstrators.

Joe Imparato, 36, of Brooklyn, almost grew hoarse shouting at Ms. Roesch's
group. He wore a gray T-shirt reading ''Matsui 55,'' referring to Hideki Matsui,
the Japanese baseball player who plays left field for the Yankees.

''I like Matsui,'' said Mr. Imparato. ''He came here legally.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Draws Increased Scrutiny as President Proposes an Expanded Role

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1642 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, June 2


With a proposed major expansion, the Border Patrol may soon overtake the F.B.I.
as the largest federal law enforcement agency. But the stepped-up mission comes
as the Border Patrol wrestles with recruitment and training difficulties, and
several agents face accusations of misconduct.

In response to concerns, the inspector general's office of the Homeland Security
Department, which oversees the Border Patrol, said it would audit the agency's
recruitment, hiring and training practices to determine if it can handle the
rapid expansion. A spokeswoman, Tamara Faulkner, said the review could begin
this month.

David V. Aguilar, the chief of the Border Patrol, told Congress last week that
the extraordinary growth was vital to national security, particularly as the
authorities seek to clamp down on illegal crossings along the Mexican border.
The agency has swelled to more than 11,000 agents from 4,000 15 years ago, with
6,000 more proposed by President Bush by 2008 as a cornerstone of his
immigration overhaul.

''The nexus between our post-Sept. 11 mission and our traditional role is
clear,'' Chief Aguilar said. ''Terrorists and violent criminals may exploit
smuggling routes used by migrants to enter the United States illegally and do us
harm.''

But as the Border Patrol seeks more agents, its training academy in Artesia,
N.M., needs expansion, and some watchdog groups question its ability to prepare
so many new agents in so little time. As a temporary measure, thousands of
National Guard troops will soon be dispatched here in Arizona and elsewhere
along the 2,000-mile border to assist with logistics and support work.

''This is not something where you can snap your fingers and have thousands go on
the job,'' said Deborah W. Meyers, an analyst at the nonpartisan Migration
Policy Institute. ''It is a demanding job, and training is important and
intense.''

Big buildups in border security in the 1990's coincided with a rash of
embarrassing disclosures about wayward agents and questions about how well the
agency screened recruits. Those concerns have surfaced again as several agents
have been accused of misconduct and immigrant smuggling, including one agent
from Mexico who was hired in 2002 even though he is not a United States citizen,
as is required.

In January, the Mexican agent, Oscar Antonio Ortiz, who had falsely claimed
citizenship on his job application, pleaded guilty to charges of immigrant
smuggling and other crimes and is awaiting sentencing. Mr. Ortiz, 28, had told
recruiters he had used cocaine in the past, and investigators later discovered
that he had previously been arrested, though not prosecuted, on suspicion of
smuggling after immigration officers at San Ysidro, Calif., detained him with
two illegal immigrants in his car.

In March, two Border Patrol supervising agents in California, Mario Alvarez, 44,
and Scott McClaren, 43, were also charged with smuggling. The agents had helped
set up an antismuggling program with the Mexican authorities. They have pleaded
not guilty and are awaiting trial in San Diego.

In recent years, several agents have also been convicted of assaulting border
crossers and other abuses. Advocates for immigrants have long accused the agency
of too often stopping people, particularly Latinos, without proper justification
and of giving little public accounting of any results of abuse accusations.

''It seems like they just hired Border Patrol agents from Ohio and brought them
down here and put them in our communities,'' said Fernando Garcia, director of
the Border Network for Human Rights, a group based in El Paso that monitors law
enforcement at the border in Texas and New Mexico.

Todd Fraser, a spokesman for the Border Patrol, said a relatively few rogue
agents had drawn more attention than the vast majority of honorable ones,
including several who had won praise inside and outside the agency for efforts
to rescue immigrants stranded in the desert.

Mr. Fraser said much of the concern about agent misconduct was outdated and
overblown. Agents, he said, go through increasingly extensive preparation for
jobs that often involve great risks, including the threat of confrontation with
armed smugglers.

''Border Patrol agents go through a long and intensive training program that
makes them among the most highly trained and professional officers out there,''
he said.

Some critics have also expressed greater confidence in the agency.
Representative Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat who in the early 1990's
called for a federal commission to oversee the agency because of its many
problems, said it had made great strides in raising standards and curtailing
questionable tactics.

''I certainly think over the years we are seeing border enforcement become more
professional,'' Mr. Becerra said. ''They have done a lot to get in line with
professional standards.''

The Border Patrol has over the years had trouble keeping agents and hiring
enough to compensate for the losses. The agents' union blames entry-level pay,
which is $35,000 to $40,000, depending on experience, generally lower than many
local and state law enforcement agencies.

The work, too, is demanding and calls for solitary patrols in the dead of night
in forbidding terrain, often arresting the same people over and over again. In
all, the agents are responsible for 6,000 miles of land border with Mexico and
Canada and 2,000 miles of coastline around Florida and Puerto Rico.

''It is mind-numbingly boring to sit in one spot 10 hours a day and watch people
stream by and be told your job is not to chase them but call the guy behind
you,'' said T. J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council, the
agents' union, referring to a common tactic of stationing agents and vehicles as
a deterrent to smugglers. ''The problem is there often is no guy behind you,
because we are short-staffed.''

A large number of agents left shortly after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to
take better-paying jobs in the newly expanded air marshal service. Many have
since returned to their old posts, however, and the patrol reports attrition has
fallen to about 6 percent, after spiking to nearly 20 percent post-9/11.

To help meet recruitment goals, the agency has begun an advertising campaign
that emphasizes the potential excitement of the job; has raised the maximum
starting age to 40 from 37, to attract more military veterans fresh from their
service; and has shortened the 20-week training course for recruits who have a
command of Spanish, which all agents are required to know.

The large unknown, Mr. Bonner and others said, is whether Congress will provide
the money in coming years to hire agents and whether the agency can bring in
enough quality recruits to meet Mr. Bush's goals.

Although Congressional legislation authorized 2,000 more agents this year, the
final budget wrangling left money for only 1,500. ''It's going to be tough, and
it's going to be a challenge, but we are confident we will be able to do it,''
said Maria Valencia, an agency spokeswoman. ''But the money is the key part in
all of this.''

The Border Patrol traces its roots to a Texas Ranger named Jeff Milton, one of
the last of the Old West gunslingers who gained fame as one of the men who
helped hunt down Geronimo and patrolled the relatively newly drawn Mexican
border in the 1880's with horse and pistol. A 1948 biography of him is subtitled
''A Good Man With a Gun.''

Its agents, some still riding horseback among the tumbleweeds, rely on an
arsenal of guns and high-power weapons that surely would have awed Milton, as
well as tools he could never have imagined: pilotless aerial drones, all-terrain
vehicles, infrared night scopes, embedded motion sensors. These days, the job
still attracts applicants with a bit of cowboy in them, people who enjoy the
outdoors and do not mind the often rough-and-tumble borderlands.

Devin Harshbarger, 25, is in his first two months on the job at the Casa Grande
station 50 miles southeast of here, some 700 miles from his hometown, Cheyenne,
Wyo.

''After 9/11, I wanted to do my part to help keep terrorists out,'' Agent
Harshbarger said, adding that he was also drawn to working outdoors.

The job also attracts people motivated by the immigration debate.

Adolfo Diaz, 30, an Air Force veteran who is another new recruit, said he got
tired of illegal immigrants crossing his family ranch near the Arizona-Mexico
border.

''Individuals have come to the house, and they have threatened neighbors and
families,'' Agent Diaz said. He described his first arrest, of some 25 people
hiking across the desert, as scary because he and the two other agents were
outnumbered.

But there is debate whether the new agents can significantly ebb the flow of
people crossing the Mexican border, a never-ending stream that another new
recruit, Christine Trevino, called ''really crazy.''

Last year, with 11,106 agents, the Border Patrol arrested 1.2 million people on
charges of illegally crossing into the United States; in 1995, with 4,876
agents, it arrested 1.3 million. Arrests peaked in 2000, with 1.6 million made
by 9,078 agents, and have swung up and down since even as the ranks of agents
has swelled. The Border Patrol estimates that 98 percent of the arrests each
year are made on the Mexico border and says a majority of the people detained
are Mexicans who are returned to their country, usually within hours.

The data, and the mix of political, economic and social factors that contribute
to illegal immigration, make it difficult to explain the erratic nature of
apprehensions and undermine ''the widely accepted assumption that border
security will be automatically improved by the hiring of more agents,'' found an
analysis by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a research group
connected to Syracuse University.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Border Patrol station in Casa Grande, Ariz., agents line
up illegal immigrants who are about to be deported back to Mexico. (Photographs
by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)Chart: ''An Expanding Force''Border Patrol
agents, at end of fiscal years.*Graph tracks border patrol agents from
1999-2008. (2006-2008 include proposed and projected figures)*2008 figure is for
end of calendar year.(Source by U.S. Customs and Border Protection)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Governor Vetoes Bill Aimed at Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 463 words


Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona has vetoed a bill that would have punished
employers who hire illegal immigrants and authorized the police to arrest
illegal immigrants on trespassing charges merely for being in the state.

Ms. Napolitano, a Democrat who is running for a second term and is doing well in
public opinion polls, said yesterday in a letter to legislators that parts of
the bill would have violated the federal government's power to enforce
immigration law under the Constitution and were opposed by many law enforcement
groups and leaders in border communities.

Ms. Napolitano said that although she supported holding employers accountable
for hiring illegal workers, the bill provided ''amnesty'' because it let them
avoid penalties and fines by simply firing the workers after receiving a warning
from the state authorities. She said she opposed charging illegal immigrants
with trespassing because law enforcement groups and municipal leaders said it
would overwhelm the police.

Ms. Napolitano said the determination of lawmakers to push a bill that she had
made clear she would reject ''confirms that you view this bill more as a
political game than as a serious effort to protect our border.''

Ms. Napolitano and the Republican-dominated Legislature have had a contentious
relationship. This veto was her 115th -- a record for an Arizona governor --
since taking office in 2003. None have been overturned.

A spokeswoman for the governor, Jeanine L'Ecuyer, said, however, that 26 of the
vetoes involved the same legislation offered multiple times by lawmakers. Some
of the bills, Ms. L'Ecuyer said, included what the governor considered
outrageous ideas, including one that would allow patrons to carry guns in bars
and restaurants.

Arizona, where a majority of illegal immigrants crossing from Mexico enter, is
one of several states where lawmakers have passed bills or are considering
measures to fill in what they view as gaps in the federal enforcement of
immigration law.

Ms. Napolitano has sought to appear tough on border issues while not playing
into the hands of hard-line Republican legislators.

Last summer, she declared a state of emergency over border security. Last week,
she authorized 300 National Guard troops from her state to participate in
President Bush's plan to deploy 6,000 of them to the Mexican border by August to
help the Border Patrol.

State Representative Russell Pearce, a Mesa Republican and the immigration
bill's chief sponsor, said in an interview after the veto that he would try to
put a similar measure on the November ballot.

Mr. Pearce said Ms. Napolitano's veto showed that she was not serious about
reducing illegal immigration. ''She is the best friend an illegal alien has in
this country,'' Mr. Pearce said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Sees Increase in Illegal Hispanic Workers in New Orleans

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 685 words


About a quarter of the construction workers rebuilding New Orleans are illegal
immigrants, who are getting lower pay, less medical care and less safety
equipment than legal workers, according to a new study by professors at Tulane
University and the University of California, Berkeley.

These workers reported making an average of $6.50 an hour less than legal
workers and had more trouble collecting their wages, the study said. While few
workers reported run-ins with the police, it said, their employers sometimes
threatened to have them deported if they complained about missing pay or
dangerous working conditions.

The study, which included more than 200 interviews at work sites, is an effort
to document working conditions and to measure the influx of Hispanic workers
into the city, where they have traditionally been only a small fraction of the
population.

The study found that about 45 percent of the reconstruction workers are
Hispanic, and at least two-thirds of them arrived after Hurricane Katrina struck
the city.

''It's a big change, a really big change,'' said Phuong N. Pham, an assistant
professor of international development at Tulane and an author of the study.

The number of new Latino workers, which Professor Pham put at 10,000 to 14,000,
has probably doubled the percentage of Latinos in the city, to perhaps 8
percent, and that does not include any family members who may have come with the
workers.

The population change is obvious to anyone who has watched buildings being
gutted or roofs repaired in the city in recent months, but it has proved hard to
measure.

For example, a new study by the federal Census Bureau shows little change in the
number of Hispanic residents of New Orleans since Hurricane Katrina; the study
says Hispanics make up about 6 percent of the metropolitan region's population.
The Census study found that the Hispanic population along the Gulf Coast
increased in the four months after the hurricanes, to 17.2 percent from 15.8
percent, which works out to an increase of about 89,000, but almost all the
increase occurred in Texas.

But Karen W. Paterson, the Louisiana state demographer, said the Census study's
methodology just could not capture the new Hispanic population that is obviously
in Louisiana, particularly in New Orleans. One reason, Ms. Paterson explained,
is that even though some Census data was collected after the storm, the study
focused on a sample of housing that was developed long before.

''We certainly see a lot of Hispanic workers,'' she said, ''but they are
probably not living in traditional household units.''

The new presence of Latinos has been a sore subject in New Orleans. Last fall,
Mayor C. Ray Nagin publicly suggested that the city was in danger of being
overrun by Mexican workers, although during his recent re-election campaign he
said he welcomed all workers who were willing to help rebuild the city.

Many of the new workers do come from Mexico, the study found, but not directly;
among those without legal authorization to work, 87 percent were already in the
United States before Hurricane Katrina, the study found. The small existing
Hispanic population was mainly from Honduras originally.

Few of the illegal workers said they planned to stay in New Orleans permanently,
telling researchers that they would stay as long as there is work. That could be
a long time, given how much construction work there is in the city, and the
prospect of more as federal money for rebuilding begins to flow in earnest.

''It leaves open the possibility that they will be here for 10 years, though
it's not clear it will be the same workers in 10 years,'' said Laurel E.
Fletcher, an author of the study and a professor at the Boalt Hall School of Law
at Berkeley.

The report recommends that even workers without documents should be allowed to
work legally in disaster zones, and should receive the same protections as
American workers.

''It's inconsistent with American values, to say, 'You're here working six days
a week, nine and a half hours a day, and you don't have any rights,' ''
Professor Fletcher said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hispanic workers gathered in January in New Orleans, hoping to
obtain work cleaning storm debris or helping to rebuild houses. (Photo by Ben
Margot/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Web Cams on Texas Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, June 8


Gov. Rick Perry has announced a $5 million plan to install hundreds of
night-vision cameras along the Mexican border and to put the live video on the
Internet, so that anyone with a computer who sights illegal immigrants trying to
slip across can report it on a toll-free hot line.

''I look at this as not different from the neighborhood watches we have had in
our communities for years and years,'' Mr. Perry said last week, when he
announced the plan.

Under the plan, cameras and other equipment would be supplied to willing
landowners and placed along some of the most remote reaches of the border.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Border Agent Accused Of Bribery

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 117 words


A border agent was arrested Thursday and pleaded not guilty on Friday to charges
of taking cash and cars to wave scores of illegal immigrants into the United
States through the San Diego-Tijuana border crossing. The agent, Richard
Elizalda, 55, a 10-year border inspector, was arraigned in Federal District
Court with six other defendants. Mr. Elizalda is charged with 11 counts,
including bribery by a public official and bringing in illegal immigrants for
financial gain. The group was accused of bringing carloads of people into the
United States for at least two years. An indictment said Mr. Elizalda used a
cellphone or other communication device to let drivers know which lane he was
monitoring.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants And the Economy

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 129 words



To the Editor:

Re ''The Worker Next Door'' (Op-Ed, June 3):

Barry R. Chiswick is exactly right in pointing out that the American economy
would function quite well without the low-skilled labor supplied by illegal
immigrants.

But the real question is what to do with the 12 million illegal immigrants who
currently live here, as well as the millions of people in Mexico and elsewhere
who would like to live in the United States and contribute to our economy.

The flexibility and strength of the American economy could also be used to
improve their welfare, to little detriment and the likely benefit of most United
States citizens.

David A. Jaeger
Williamsburg, Va., June 5, 2006

The writer is associate professor of economics and public policy at the College
of William and Mary.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking to the Streets, For Parents' Sake

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1780 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


EVEN after nine years, she has not forgotten the paranoia, the sleepless nights
and the tearful phone calls after immigration agents picked up her father at
work and deported him to Mexico.

It all came back to the teenager, Monserrat I., when she heard about proposals
in Congress to criminalize people who are in the country illegally. So in March,
when Monserrat took to the streets in one of the walkouts staged by tens of
thousands of high school students around the country, she said she had her
family, and others like hers, in mind.

''My father's deportation tore everyone up,'' said Monserrat, who was born in
the United States but whose last name is being withheld to protect her family,
some of whom are undocumented immigrants. ''The idea that that horror could be
inflicted on hundreds of thousands of families was not pleasant,'' she said. ''I
didn't care about the consequences.''

If the stereotypical student protester of the 1960's in the United States
listened to Bob Dylan, fought the establishment and rebelled against their
parents, the newly minted 21st-century version listens to Mexican rap, salsa or
Spanish rock, seeks acceptance from the establishment and is often acting on
behalf of their parents.

The immigration issue hits so close to home that many teenagers defied school
officials and their families by taking part in the walkouts. And that taste for
political activism seems to have ignited a fire.

Having discovered almost by accident their ability to make themselves heard,
many are now taking that energy to join student unions, register to vote, learn
about political organizing and in general broaden their political awareness of
other social justice issues, according to teachers, school officials and youth
organizations.

The movement around the immigration issue builds on previous student movements
in the 1960's and 70's in which Latinos fought for better treatment and
conditions in schools as well as multiculturalism in curriculums, said Mary F.
Corey, a lecturer in history at the University of California, Los Angeles, who
specializes in protest movements and the Vietnam era. The recent HBO movie
''Walkout'' depicts one struggle.

But while the movement in favor of immigration is different in that it touches
on family and identity -- ''What's an American, who are we?'' she noted -- it
also mirrors movements for free speech and civil rights.

''They're basically asking Americans to make good on their promises, to live up
to the American credo -- the belief that all men, and now women, are created
equal and that we believe in giving people freedom,'' Ms. Corey said.

Political movements come in waves and often spawn other movements, Ms. Corey
said, but what endures is the idea of dissent. For many Latino students, the
portrayal of immigrants as job-stealers and worse in the immigration debate
sparked anger and deep pain.

''They took it personally,'' said Al Mijares, superintendent of the Santa Ana
Unified School District in Orange County, Calif., where about 3,000 high school
and middle school students walked out to protest. ''A lot of them are going to
major in law and political science. They realize they need to do things like get
elected to change laws,'' he said.

Students like Ivette Gonzalez, 16, a junior, had no direct stake in the
immigration issue. She and her twin sister are native Angelenos and her father,
a supervisor in a laundry business, is a naturalized American citizen while her
mother, a housekeeper, is a legal resident.

But her parents, too, once crossed illegally from Mexico, just like many of Ms.
Gonzalez's relatives and classmates at Belmont High School, which is near
downtown Los Angeles. So she did not hesitate to lead a sit-in with about 300
classmates in front of Los Angeles City Hall.

''I see how hard they work,'' she said of Latino students who don't have their
legal papers. ''They barely speak English. It's not fair that people are
criticizing someone who's getting an education.''

Ms. Gonzalez said the experience of the concerted action opened her eyes and
sensitized her to other problems, like school overcrowding.

''Our parents don't know that they can go in and complain about 'Why does my kid
have such ugly lockers and books. Why do students have to sit on the floor
during class?' '' she said.

Having caught the activism bug, she plans to join the student union next year.
And disappointed in the way the walkouts were covered on television, she's also
more determined to become a television anchorwoman ''to make a change.''

''None of them showed the good, they only showed the bad,'' she said. ''They
just showed kids running like idiots on the freeway.''

There were, to be sure, students who took advantage of the commotion to skip
school and misbehave. But teachers, parents and others say they had never seen
such passion in so many of the teenagers, many of whom lack legal status
themselves.

Monserrat, who plans to study advertising in college, had dabbled in political
action -- attending an antiwar march this year, for example -- but she said the
immigration debate shook her to the core. Now, she said, she has become a
volunteer with a civil rights group that advocates for improvements in public
transit.

''I was really shocked by the whole approach,'' she said of the immigration
bills in Congress. ''The proposal was presented as an attack rather than
reform.''

In taking part in the walkout at her school, Monserrat said she defied warnings
by school officials and the apprehensions of her parents, who she noted, do not
have ''that revolutionary spirit.'' Her father frowns upon her activism. So much
so that the daughter did not allow a reporter to talk to either parent.

But just like they took risks coming to this country for a better life, she
said, she had to take a stand.

''I'm proud of them,'' she said of her parents. They came ''and they raised a
family and I can't comprehend how hard that was.''

The students were criticized in many quarters for ditching school to make their
statement, and the immigration issue has caused fighting and scuffles in some
schools between Latino and other students. In Los Angeles, where more than
30,000 walked out over several days of demonstrations in March, about 5,000
students in Los Angeles also faced citations for violating daytime curfews, said
the National Lawyers Guild, which is representing them in court.

Some are settling their cases with hours of community service while schools also
required many to make up any lost time with Saturday classes. Monserrat said her
school's punishment was two days of ''campus beautification'' gardening.

Although some parents opposed their children's participation in walkouts, others
said they were of two minds -- proud of their children's determination but more
than a bit worried that they were damaging their education.

And some, like Ms. Gonzalez's mother, Maria, 38, encouraged their children to
protest. ''My daughter called me and I told her, 'Get out!' '' she said of the
day her daughter's school staged their walkout. ''At least now people know that
we're here.''

But some students have come to their cause more fearful than others.

One student in Orange County who joined several siblings in the United States
from Mexico barely five years ago, said he initially hesitated to get involved
in any demonstrations because as an undocumented immigrant he felt vulnerable.

''I knew that if I got in trouble in school I would get in trouble athome,''
said Israel O., 16, whose last name was withheld because he is a minor. ''I was
scared.'

But more than half of the 25 friends on his MySpace.com account urged him to
join, bombarding him with messages about where and when to meet for their school
walkout.

In the end, he did not walk out but participated in the pro-immigration march in
May and also filmed footage for a student documentary, ''I Am Orange County.''

''It was exciting,'' said Israel, who wants to pursue a career as a film editor,
of his participation in that march and an earlier one in Los Angeles that drew
over half a million people. ''I can tell my children I was there.''

Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community Change, an
organization in Washington that does grass-roots organizing around poverty
issues, said he expects an surge of voting by the children of immigrant parents
who are turning 18 and that he has already seen increased interest in the
training camps his organization holds around the country to teach students how
to organize rallies and turn out voters. The last training camp, in Nashville
last month, drew about 300 16- to 22-year-olds, about five times more than
usual, he said.

''The immigrant young people are key influencers in their families because so
many of them have had to act as translators between mainstream America and their
families,'' he said. ''Many of them have developed extraordinary maturity beyond
their age. They bring a set of experiences that make them uniquely able to be
organizers.''

Still, he said, those students who are not here legally face a bumpier road
enrolling in college and finding jobs in professional fields after graduation.

One shy ninth grader at Van Nuys High School in Los Angeles who spoke on
condition of anonymity to protect his family, said he is the one who comes to
parent-teacher meetings on behalf of his two younger brothers to help his
mother, who does not speak English.

And now he also defends his parents from the taunting of some non-Latino
classmates, who resented the walkouts and met them with obscene gestures and
shouts to ''get out of this country.''

He said he has met the backlash with his own ''bad words and stuff'' but worries
that if his parents are deported back to Mexico, he and his brothers will have
to follow.

Now as schools let out for the summer, many of the young protesters say they are
waiting and watching the news, following the goings-on in Congress. The Senate
has already done away with provisions critics had considered extreme, such as
classifying illegal immigrants as felons, and over the summer will try to
reconcile its version of the immigration bill with the more stringent House
version.

Some immigration advocates say the students should take a good chunk of credit
for steering the Senate toward a compromise bill.

''The young people have humanized the immigration debate,'' Mr. Bhargava said.

As the debate continues, Monserrat keeps finding other causes. She planned to
march in the Los Angeles gay pride parade today along with her history teacher
and classmates.

''I definitely believe in human and civil rights,'' she said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: UNITED FRONT -- Maria Gonzalez, center, with daughters Paula,
left, and Ivette. (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
CALL TO ACTION -- Monserrat I. joined the walkout in Los Angeles. (Photo by
Stephanie Diani for The New York Times)
 COLLECTIVE SPIRIT -- A rally from the documentary ''I Am Orange County.''
(Photo by Orange County Children's Therapeutic Arts Center)(pg. 12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

2,100 Are Arrested on Immigration Violations

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE and JULIA C. MEAD; The Associated Press contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 449 words


In a nationwide sweep, law enforcement officials have arrested more than 2,100
people in the past three weeks for immigration violations, including 116 in New
Jersey and 114 in New York State, the Department of Homeland Security announced
yesterday. About a third of those arrested were in California.

The sweep, which started on May 26, was a cooperative effort between local law
enforcement agencies and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement branch of the
Department of Homeland Security.

"The fugitives captured in this operation threatened public safety in hundreds
of neighborhoods and communities around the country,'' Michael Chertoff, the
secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said in a statement.

Those arrested fell into three broad categories: convicted criminals, members of
gangs, and fugitives who had violated deportation orders, the authorities said.

Nearly half of those arrested had been convicted of crimes that made them
eligible for deportation, including 146 who had committed sexual crimes
involving minors. About 350 of those arrested were known to be involved in
violent street gangs. About 650 were fugitives who were ignoring or violating
deportation orders.

About 800 of those arrested have already been deported.

In Suffolk County, 19 men were arrested because they had been convicted of
crimes that made them eligible for deportation, according Dennis Caine, chief of
detectives for the Suffolk County Police Department.

Their names were determined by cross-referencing county lists of convicted sex
offenders and known gang members with a federal immigration database. Of those
men, 14 were sexual offenders convicted of offenses ranging from endangering the
welfare of a child, a misdemeanor, to felony rape, robbery or negligent
homicide.

In New Jersey, agents broke up a narcotics ring operating in Plainfield that
imported cocaine from Guatemala to members of the Mara Salvatrucha gang and
associates, the authorities said.

Agents also arrested 22 suspected members of the Los Cafeteros gang and the
Sureno 13 gang in Red Bank. All of the suspected gang members are being held on
immigration charges, but many also have criminal records, the authorities said.

Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency,
said that at least four people were arrested as late as yesterday morning in New
York City. ''Border security doesn't stop at the border,'' he said. ''It
requires a robust interior enforcement effort.''

Most of those arrested in the New York metropolitan area were from Latin
American countries, but the nationwide sweep also caught immigrants from Africa,
East and Southeast Asia, and Europe.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Worries About Its Own Southern Border

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1741 words

DATELINE: TAPACHULA, Mexico, June 11


Quiet as it is kept in political circles, Mexico, so much the focus of the
United States' immigration debate, has its own set of immigration problems. And
as elected officials from President Vicente Fox on down denounce Washington's
plans to deploy troops and build more walls along the United States border,
Mexico has begun a re-examination of its own policies and prejudices.

Here at Mexico's own southern edge, Guatemalans cross legally and illegally to
do jobs that Mexicans departing for the north no longer want. And hundreds of
thousands of illegal immigrants from nearly two dozen other countries, including
China, Ecuador, Cuba and Somalia, pass through on their way to the United
States.

Dense jungle makes establishing an effective law enforcement presence along the
line impossible. Crossing the border is often as easy as hopping a fence or
rafting for 10 minutes. But, under pressure from the United States, Mexico has
steadily increased checkpoints along highways at the border including several
posts with military forces.

The Mexican authorities report that detentions and deportations have risen in
the past four years by an estimated 74 percent, to 240,000, nearly half along
the southern border. But they acknowledged there had also been a boom in
immigrant smuggling and increased incidents of abuses and attacks by corrupt law
enforcement officials, vigilantes and bandits. Meanwhile, the waves of migrants
continue to grow.

Few politicians have made public speeches about such matters. But Deputy Foreign
Minister Geronimo Gutierrez recently acknowledged that Mexico's immigration laws
were ''tougher than those being contemplated by the United States,'' where the
authorities caught 1.5 million people illegally crossing the Mexican border last
year. He spoke before a congressional panel to discuss ''Mexico in the Face of
the Migratory Phenomenon.''

In an interview, Mr. Gutierrez said Mexico needed to ''review its laws in order
to have more legitimacy when we present our points of view to the United
States.''

Another high-level official in the Foreign Ministry was more blunt, but spoke
only on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be seen as undermining
Mexico in its dealings with the United States.

''Are we where we should be in the treatment of migrants?'' the official said.
''No we are not. But is the Mexican government aware of that? Yes, and it is
something we are trying to correct.''

Unlike the immigration debate in the United States, where immigration opponents
and proponents bandy about estimated costs and benefits for everything from the
agriculture industry to suburban horticulture, hard numbers on the effects of
illegal migration on Mexico are rare. A trip to Chiapas raises questions about
whether Mexico practices at home what it preaches abroad.

If the major characters in the migration drama unfolding in Chiapas could be
captured in a collage, it would include a burly, white-haired farmer named
Eusebio Ortega Contreras, who did not hide that most of the workers who picked
mangos in his fields for $6 a day were underage, undocumented Guatemalans.
Indians from Chiapas used to do these jobs, Mr. Ortega said. But in the past
five years, they have been migrating to the United States. And lately, he said,
he has begun to worry that he is going to lose the Guatemalans, too.

''We know that the conditions we provide our workers are not adequate,'' said
Mr. Ortega, president of the local fruit growers' association, who showed a
reporter the meager shelter he can offer: an awning off a hay shed for a roof
and lined-up milk crates for beds. ''But costs are going up. Production is going
down. We barely earn enough money to maintain our orchards, much less improve
conditions for the workers.''

Joaquin Aguilar Vasquez, a 22-year-old father of two, would be standing with his
knapsack in front of a passenger bus for the northern border, because jobs here
at home barely kept his family fed. He said he started migrating two years ago
to work in an electronics factory in Tijuana, where he earned $12 a day and
saved enough to build a house. When he reaches Tijuana this time, he said, he
will hire a smuggler to sneak him to a construction job in New Orleans.

There would be a skinny unidentified Chinese citizen, chain-smoking in the new
migration detention center after being caught with more than 50 of his
countrymen stowed away among banana crates in the back of a tractor-trailer.
Next to him would be a group of Cuban rafters who floated to Mexico because of
the increased United States Coast Guard presence around Florida. And there would
be a flock of Central Americans, so scruffy and tough they seemed right out of
''Oliver Twist,'' hopping a freight train north.

In the collage, Edwin Godoy, a 21-year-old Honduran who said he was deported
last year from Miami and separated from his wife and two children, would be
posing in front.

''They call this train the beast,'' Mr. Godoy shouted in English to get
attention. ''Do you want to know why? Because it can either take you where you
want to go, or it can kill you. Some of us won't make it out of here alive.''

At the start of his presidency nearly six years ago, Mr. Fox pledged that, as
part of negotiations with the United States for legal status for illegal Mexican
immigrants, this country would crack down on the flow of illegal immigrants
crossing from Guatemala. He talked of a so-called Southern Plan that was to be
an ''unprecedented effort,'' and the United States offered an estimated $2
million a year to help Mexico deport illegal Central American immigrants.

George Grayson, an expert on Mexico at the College of William and Mary who has
made several research trips to Mexico's southern border, said little had come of
those efforts. He described this border as an ''open sesame for illegal
migrants, drug traffickers, exotic animals and Mayan artifacts.''

And Mr. Grayson said the United States ended its support for deportation after
the establishment of the Department of Homeland Security, which instead provides
some technical aid and training to increase security at Mexico's southern border
checkpoints.

Mexican migration officials acknowledged that they had fewer than 450 agents
patrolling the five states along this frontier, which has some 200 official and
unofficial crossing points.

The rains came recently and flooded most rivers, making parts of this border as
treacherous as the Sonora Desert, the deadly Arizona gateway where more than 460
migrants died of exposure and dehydration last year. But human rights advocates
and government migration officials say nature does not do as much harm here as
crime and corruption.

The Rev. Ademar Barilli, a human rights advocate who, with the support of the
Roman Catholic Church, runs a shelter for migrants in Tecun Uman, a Guatemalan
border city, said that unlike crossing patterns at the northern border, migrants
here did not typically go far into remote areas, hoping to avoid the
authorities. Instead, he said, the migrants try to bribe their way through.

''A migrant with money can make it across Mexico with no problems,'' Father
Barilli said. ''A migrant with no money gets nowhere.''

Mexican law authorizes only federal migration agents and federal preventive
police officers to inspect cars for illegal migrants and to demand proof of
legal status. But Mexican authorities acknowledge that migrants face run-ins
with every level of law enforcement.

Migrants are also routinely detained by machete-wielding farmers, who extort
their money by threatening to turn them over to the police. So manyfemale
migrants have been raped or coerced into sex, the authorities said, that some
begin taking birth control pills a few months before embarking on the journey
north.

Few are punished for such crimes, the authorities added, because the migrants
rarely report them.

''This society does not see migrants as human beings, it sees them as
criminals,'' said Lucia del Carmen Bermudez, coordinator for a government
migration agency called Grupo Beta. ''The majority of the attacks against
migrants are not committed by authorities, although there is still a big problem
with corruption in Mexico. Most violence against migrants comes from
civilians.''

Grupo Beta is a uniquely Mexican creation; established 16 years ago in Tijuana
to protect migrants. It was a time, said Pedro Espindola, the director of Grupo
Beta, when Mexican migration to the United States began to soar, and smuggling
groups evolved from small-time, community-based operations into transnational
criminal cartels.

Grupo Beta was expanded to the southern border in 1996, Mr. Espindola said, when
throngs of Central American migrants, aiming for the United States, began
hopping freight trains in Tapachula. Train stations became easy staging areas
for gangs to ambush migrants. Hospitals became overwhelmed with men and women
who had fallen beneath moving locomotives, often losing limbs to their wheels.

Last year, Grupo Beta reported, 72 migrants died crossing the southern border,
mostly in accidents on trains or highways. Human rights groups say the real
figure is more than twice as high. And in the 16 years since one woman, Olga
Sanchez Martinez, began selling bread and embroidery to operate a shelter and
then a clinic for migrants, she said, she has treated more than 2,500 migrants
with machete and gunshot wounds or severed limbs.

Last year's rains did so much damage to the bridges and roads around Tapachula
that the train does not stop here anymore. But that has not stopped the
migrants.

Some detour north of here, the authorities said, to train stations that run
through the state of Tabasco. But migrants like Mr. Godoy, the Honduran, have so
far refused to abandon this route. He walked eight days along the tracks that
run from here to the station in Arriaga, about 120 miles away. Then he, along
with at least 300 others, hopped a freight train that leaves there almost
nightly, in plain view of evening traffic, the local police and the train's
engineer.

It was Mr. Godoy's third attempt in three months. He said he had been caught by
United States Border Patrol officers in Laredo, Tex., on each of his previous
trips.

''I am not going to give up,'' he said. ''I had a good life in Miami. I got no
criminal record. I never hurt nobody. I'm just trying to be with my kids, you
know? That's all I need.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Sunday about the difficulties Mexico faces in policing
its southern border referred imprecisely to a southern state where Mexico has
immigration agents. Yucatan is near the border but not on it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Migrants from Guatemala cross a stream into southern Mexico, a
common route for those seeking jobs in Mexico or passage to the United States.
(Photo by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Eduardo Esobar, a Salvadoran migrant, hopped a train in Arriaga, Chiapas. He
said he was headed to the United States to search for work.
 Mexico is fighting a wave of migrants, many trying to enter the United States.
A Cuban in a cell in Tapachula is among those awaiting deportation. (Photographs
by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. 12)Map of Chiapas highlighting
Tapachula: Guatemalan migrants easily slip into Mexico but face many risks. (pg.
12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words



INTERNATIONAL   3-15

Mexico Worries Over Border
While much of the debate on illegal immigration focuses on Mexico's northern
border with the United States, the country has an illegal migration problem of
its own, along the southern border with Guatemala. The Mexican government has
increased checkpoints there, and has begun a re-examination of its immigration
policies.   1

Search for G.I.'s in Iraq


American soldiers searched for two of their comrades apparently captured by
insurgents in an ambush south of the Baghdad. Another soldier was killed in the
attack.   10

A new criminal investigation into the killings of three Iraqis by American
servicemen north of Baghdad last month has been set in motion by soldiers who
alerted military officials that higher-ranking soldiers had caused the deaths of
the men, according to government officials.   10

Chechen Leader Reported Killed
Russian special forces killed the leader of Chechnya's separatists, officials
said, reveling in a new blow to a rebel movement with a long history of
terrorist attacks that has recently appeared seriously weakened.   6

Still No Salaries in Gaza
Palestinians in Gaza are struggling to cope in the fourth month without salaries
from the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority.   8

Rebels Clash With Sri Lanka
Fighting between Sri Lankan government forces and Tamil Tiger rebels escalated
sharply with as many as 47 people killed.   12

Serbia Genocide Case Goes On
While the death of Slobodan Milosevic brought an end to his trial at the United
Nations war crimes tribunal, the question of whether genocide occurred during
his rule may be decided by another United Nations court based in The Hague: the
International Court of Justice.   6

Diplomatic Definitions for Iran
The international initiative to curb Iran's nuclear program hinges on a request
that Tehran freeze all uranium enrichment activities before talks can begin. But
what that demand means has become the subject of diplomatic negotiations.   15

NATIONAL   16-23

From Security to Lobbying
Dozens of members of the Bush administration's domestic security team, assembled
after the 2001 terrorist attacks, are now collecting bigger paychecks in
different roles: working on behalf of companies that sell domestic security
products, many directly to the federal agencies the officials once helped run.
1

New Orleans Still Lacks Plan
Billions of federal dollars are about to start flowing into New Orleans, after
President Bush signed the emergency relief bill the region has long awaited. But
with Hurricane Katrina's anniversary approaching, local officials have yet to
come up with a redevelopment plan, showing what kind of city will emerge.   1

Muslim Clerics in America
Two American-born converts to Islam have become leading intellectual lights for
a new generation of American Muslims looking for homegrown leaders who can help
them learn how to live their faith without succumbing to American materialism or
Islamic extremism.   1

Troops Arrive at Border
The first National Guard troops ordered to the United States-Mexico border as
part of President Bush's plan to improve security have arrived in the four
border states.   16

NEW YORK/REGION   25-31

Subway Plot Is Cited
United States authorities in 2003 suspected that al Qaeda operatives had that
year planned to carry out a chemical attack on the New York City subway system,
according to two former counterterrorism officials.   25

OBITUARIES   33

Frederick Franck
An artist and author who explored spirituality, he was 97.   33

Chess   31
TV   Section 2
TV Update   31
Weather   14

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Scrutiny of Illegal Immigrants in Minor Crimes

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1351 words

DATELINE: FORT COLLINS, Colo.


It did not sit right with the sheriff in this law-abiding city that illegal
immigrants who landed in his jail for minor crimes were later released into the
community and never deported.

The immigrants had been arrested for drunken driving or striking a spouse, usual
police blotter material in a foothills county on the eastern rim of the Rockies.

Immigration agents, overwhelmed by a decade-old surge in illegal immigration to
Colorado, said they had neither the time nor the resources to pick up the
illegal immigrants whose violations were not grave.

But to Sheriff Jim Alderden of Larimer County, the facts seemed plain.

''They violated our borders and then they committed other crimes,'' Sheriff
Alderden said. ''I think these offenders should be deported.''

Across the country, local law enforcement officials and irritated taxpayers are
turning up the pressure on federal immigration authorities to identify illegal
immigrants who are behind bars and deport them after they are freed.

Although that has generally been the practice with violent felons, illegal
immigrants who commit lesser crimes are often overlooked by federal authorities,
who say their resources are scarce.

Now, however, immigration agents say they are beginning to take the first steps
to change that. The agents say they are rethinking the triage that led them to
pass over the estimated hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants with lesser
offenses, even if they were imprisoned.

In some cases, the federal agents are allowing local authorities to screen
immigrants to help detect those who should be deported.

In 2005, at least 270,000 illegal immigrants spent time in local jails and state
prisons, according to the Justice Department. In federal prisons, more than
35,000 inmates, 19 percent of the total, were immigrants.

Although not all the immigrants in federal prisons were illegal when they went
in, their felony convictions made it likely that they would lose any legal
status and be required to leave the United States when they came out.

In a report in April, the inspector general of the Homeland Security Department
estimated that in the coming year 302,000 immigrants who should be deported upon
release would be sent to local jails and state prisons.

But based on recent deportation results, the inspector general predicted that
most of those immigrants would be freed here. Shortages of money, agents and
detention beds have created an unofficial ''mini-amnesty'' for criminal
immigrants, the inspector general found.

The country is polarized between those who want a path to citizenship for
illegal immigrants and those who want to deport them. But just about everyone
agrees that the doubly illegal, immigrants with no documents and who have
committed crimes, are not welcome.

In some states, the numbers have soared. Up to 25 percent of the 22,000 inmates
in the Los Angeles County jails on any day are illegal immigrants, Steve
Whitmore, a spokesman for the sheriff's office there, said. The county's annual
costs for housing the illegal are at least $80 million, Mr. Whitmore said.

In California state prisons, at least 20,000 inmates have been listed for
deportation by immigration authorities, officials said.

In Colorado, immigrants behind bars have become part of the debate on the costs
of illegal immigration. According to federal figures, Colorado paid $46 million
in 2005 for the upkeep of illegal immigrant inmates.

On average, Sheriff Alderden said, about 6 percent of the 546 beds in his
spotless jail have been filled by Mexicans, a majority illegal. He estimated
that illegal Mexican inmates cost Larimer $1 million a year.

The overall crime rate in the county's immigrant communities is not high,
officials said. But jail officers remember many illegal immigrants whom they
book repeatedly.

It used to be that when an illegal immigrant's offense was a misdemeanor, ''it
didn't pay to call immigration,'' Sheriff Alderden said. Agents from Immigration
and Customs Enforcement said they were busy rounding up violent felons, as the
law requires, and most of the felons were in state prisons.

Last month, the situation changed. Under a pilot program, every day the sheriff
sends the immigration agency a list of the foreigners in his jail. Federal
agents visit regularly to interview those inmates and identify those who have to
leave the country.

In the first two weeks, 26 inmates were added to the deportation list.

Fernando Guadarrama, 21, a construction worker from Mexico, was one of the 26
caught in the expanded net. Newly outfitted in an orange jail uniform, Mr.
Guadarrama said his bad luck began when an officer pulled over his pickup
because the rear license plate light was out. He had just a Mexican driver's
license and, overconfident after seven years in the United States, he told the
officer that he could not obtain an American one because of his illegal status.

Mr. Guadarrama found himself in the Larimer jail and then in an interview with
an immigration agent, on the roster for a quick departure from the United
States.

Mr. Guadarrama was philosophical as he made hasty plans to move his Mexican wife
and two children, both American citizens, back to Mexico and start a small
business there.

''I thank God every day for the United States,'' he said. ''It allowed me to
make enough money to have a decent life.''

Immigration officials say limited resources had forced them to adopt a ''pecking
order'' of immigrant criminals to detain. But John P. Torres, director of
detention and deportation operations at the immigration agency, said it had
stepped up screening in city and county jails, focusing on the centers with
large numbers of immigrants.

Despite the political furor, there have been no moves to curtail prison terms
for illegal immigrants or to deport them before they finish serving their
sentences, corrections officials said.

In some states, the agency has signed agreements with corrections departments to
let prison staff members screen immigrant inmates. Immigration agents then place
''holds'' on the immigrants to be deported when they are released.

Now the bottleneck is detention space. A center with 340 beds in Aurora, a
Denver suburb, is for all the detained immigrants from Colorado, Idaho, Montana
and Wyoming, all with booming immigrant populations.

The center is run by the Geo Group of Boca Raton, Fla., a large company in the
prison industry. Detainees said the center was clean and orderly. But they live
in bunk barracks with at least 24 people to a room, and overcrowding often
forces them to sleep in plastic cradles on the floor.

Criminal immigrants are held in a separate wing, with mauve walls. One inmate,
Maria del Carmen Ramirez, 29, said immigration agents determined she had no
legal documents in a screening in a county jail. Ms. Ramirez said she had worked
for 12 years cleaning the houses of wealthy people in Denver.

''I'm here illegally, like every other Mexican,'' she said.

She had thrown a punch at her husband in a feud, she said, and he had called the
police.

''I didn't hurt an American,'' Ms. Ramirez said. ''I hit one of my own people.''

Now scheduled for deportation, Ms. Ramirez said she would leave behind three
young children.

In Colorado, sympathy for immigrants like Ms. Ramirez is dwindling. In 2006, the
State Legislature adopted six bills that focused on illegal immigration. They
include a law that requires the police to report suspected illegal immigrants to
immigration authorities if they are arrested for any crime other than minor
traffic violations or domestic violence.

Another measure that Gov. Bill Owens signed last week created a State Patrol
unit of 24 officers to combat smuggling.

Republican lawmakers joined with former Gov. Richard D. Lamm, a Democrat, in a
campaign to place an item on the ballot in November to bar illegal immigrants
from using any state public service, except emergency medical care and public
schools.

''We've got enough of our own homegrown criminals,'' Mr. Lamm said. ''Why are we
importing more?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheriff Jim Alderden, top, says illegal immigrants who commit
minor crimes should be deported. Above, Fernando Guadarrama, 21, an illegal
immigrant, was arrested for a defective license plate light.
 Beds in an overflow area at the Larimer County Jail in Colorado. A program
alerts immigration authorities to the presence of foreigners in the jail.
(Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) Chart: ''In a New Country
And Behind Bars''According to the Justice Department, 270,000 illegal immigrants
spent time in state and local prisons and jails in the 2004 fiscal year. Here
are the 10 states with the most in both types of incarceration.California:
108,247Texas: 36,407New York: 23,183Florida: 12,449Arizona: 12,205Washington:
6,977New Jersey: 6,959Colorado: 6,601Illinois: 5,718Nevada: 5,714

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 24, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

No More Troops to Border, California Says

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, June 23


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger this week rejected a request from the Bush
administration to send an additional 1,500 National Guard troops to the Mexican
border, the governor's office confirmed Friday.

Mr. Schwarzenegger said the request would have stretched the California Guard
too thin if an emergency or disaster struck.

Mr. Schwarzenegger's communications director, Adam Mendelsohn, said the governor
thought sending more troops would be an inappropriate burden on the state and
would disrupt the Guard's training schedule.

After a 17-day standoff with the Bush administration, Mr. Schwarzenegger agreed
on June 1 to send the California National Guard to the border to help the
federal government's effort to control illegal immigration. The governor
relented after the Pentagon promised to pay for the entire mission.

California has committed to putting 1,000 troops on the border by July 31 and
has 250 there now.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 26, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Lucille Avenue, the Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1853 words

DATELINE: ELMONT, N.Y.


The streets where Patrick Nicolosi sees America unraveling still have the look
of the 1950's. Single-family homes sit side by side, their lawns weed-whacked
into submission to the same suburban dream that Mr. Nicolosi's Italian-American
parents embraced 40 years ago when they moved to this working-class community on
Long Island.

But when a school bus stops at the white Cape Cod opposite his house, two
children seem to pop up from beneath the earth. Emerging from an illegal
basement apartment that successive homeowners have rented to a Mexican family of
illegal immigrants, they head off to another day of public schooling at taxpayer
expense.

This is a neighborhood in the twilight zone of illegal immigration, and wherever
Mr. Nicolosi looks, the hidden costs of cheap labor hit home.

There is the gas station a dozen blocks away where more than 100 immigrant day
laborers gather, leaving garbage and distress along a residential side street --
and undercutting wages for miles, contends Mr. Nicolosi, 49, a third-generation
union man and former Wonder Bread truck driver who retired after a back injury.
There are the schools and hospitals filled with children from illegal apartments
like the basement dwelling, which Mr. Nicolosi calls ''a little dungeon,
windowless.''

''Two children are in school, and one is handicapped -- that's $10,000 for
elementary school, $100,000 a year for special education,'' he said. ''Why am I
paying taxes to support that house?''

One man's frustration over a family in a basement goes a long way toward
explaining the grass-roots anger over immigration policy that many members of
Congress say they keep hearing in their districts. And it also illustrates the
unsettling consequences such anger can set in motion.

It is the economics of class, not the politics of culture or race, that fires
Mr. Nicolosi's resentment about what he sees in Elmont, which is probably as
diverse a suburb as exists in the United States. Like many working-class
Americans who live close to illegal immigrants, he worries that they are yet
another force undermining the way of life and the social contract that
generations of workers strived so hard to achieve.

''The rich, they're totally oblivious to this situation -- what the illegal
immigration, the illegal housing, the day labor is doing to us,'' he said.
''Everyone's exploiting these people -- the landlords, the contractors. And now
we can't afford to pay taxes. People like me who want to live the suburban
dream, we're being pushed out unless we join the illegality.''

Instead, unlike most people, Mr. Nicolosi joins the civic fray. A self-appointed
watchdog, he tries to get local officials to investigate houses that he and his
allies suspect of violations, and to crack down on day laborers spilling into
front yards.

But this spring, as the immigration debate ignited nationally, the results of
his crusade unfolded like a parable about being careful what you wish for --
leaving the Mexican family uprooted, neighbors unhappy, and Mr. Nicolosi himself
more frustrated than ever.

Elmont, just over the Nassau County line from Queens, has always drawn
immigrants or their children. In the decades since Mr. Nicolosi's father, a bus
driver, moved his family here from the city, families from every continent have
joined the Italian and Central European generations who settled the first
subdivisions. Its population of 33,000 is about 46 percent white, 35 percent
black and 9 percent Asian, and 14 percent of its residents are Hispanic.

Mr. Nicolosi, a compact, animated man, says he is fighting to save the modest
suburban lifestyle that these families seek, regardless of ethnicity.

In the last four years, Elmont raised school taxes by 57 percent and added 40
elementary school classrooms -- partly filled, district officials agree, by
families in illegal rentals, both immigrant and native-born. In response, Mr.
Nicolosi ran for the school board three times, losing yet again in May. As
president of the Elmont East End Civic Association, he prods the police to
enforce laws against loitering, and in letters to newspapers laments the erosion
of suburbia with examples uncomfortably close to home.

Recently, for example, to the dismay of his wife, a police crossing guard, he
publicly cited their children -- a doctor, a teacher and a law school applicant
-- as examples of a generation that is being priced out of Long Island by
soaring property taxes.

The Cape Cod across Lucille Avenue from Mr. Nicolosi's home is among hundreds of
houses that he and his associates have turned in to officials since 2002, he
said, based on anonymous complaints collected by a local weekly. They checked
the addresses for telltale signs like multiple electric meters -- with no
regard, he insisted, to the occupants' ethnicity or citizenship.

But even among those who echoed Mr. Nicolosi's concerns, many called him a
busybody and a troublemaker. There was sympathy for the family in the basement,
and for their landlords, the Cervonis, a young couple with a baby and a
construction business who bought the house from an absentee landlord in 2004 and
moved in.

''What could we do, throw them out?'' asked Luciana Cervoni, who called the
tenants hard-working and quiet. ''They've lived here for six, seven years now.''

In a dungeon?

''If that were the case, we would have moved a long time ago,'' said the mother
in the basement, Ariana O., 30, allowing a glimpse of its two-bedroom finished
interior that showed how homey the couple had made it for their three children:
a boy of 10, a developmentally disabled girl of about 6, and a year-old baby --
the last two born in the United States.

Ms. O. and her husband, Placido, a mason, asked that their last name be
withheld, for fear of immigration authorities. They were aware of past
housing-code citations generated by Mr. Nicolosi's complaints. Nothing had come
of those, so they were not too worried.

But as the national debate flared, so did Mr. Nicolosi's frustration at what he
saw in his neighborhood. Those clipped front lawns? Mowed by underpaid Latino
workers. Those tidy homes? Contractors hired immigrants off the books to repair
roofs and replace pipes, Mr. Nicolosi said, instead of training, and decently
compensating, someone like the 20-year-old American up the block who needed a
job.

''They're telling us Americans don't want to do these jobs,'' Mr. Nicolosi said.
''That's a lie. The business owners don't want to pay. I know what my
grandparents fought for: fair wages and days off. Now we're doing it in
reverse.''

Trying not to feed the cycle, Mr. Nicolosi said, he had paid a premium to use
nationally known home-improvement chains when he renovated his house. But by now
he knew that was no guarantee that the people who did the work were legal, let
alone fairly paid, he said.

''It's either a country of law and order and what my parents fought for, or we
just turn it over to big business,'' he went on, working himself into a speech
that connected many dots.

He pointed to American companies in Mexico that paid wages too low to keep
Mexicans from streaming north to sell their labor on American streets. He
angrily denied bigotry and avowed pity for the immigrants, squeezed by low wages
and high rents.

''They will never, ever better themselves,'' he said of the Mexican family.

And as he drove his black S.U.V. through a neighborhood where garden shrines
outnumber basketball hoops, his world view darkened what he saw. Passing a small
house, he shared his suspicion that it illegally harbored multiple immigrant
families, because a dozen children regularly played out front.

But the homeowners later set the record straight. ''We're a family here -- we're
no immigrants,'' declared Fanny Echeverria, 40, quickly adding, ''What makes him
better than immigrants?''

She and her husband, George, have five children between them, and their yard is
a magnet for neighbors' children. Ms. Echeverria is a native New Yorker of Greek
and Dominican heritage, her husband a naturalized United States citizen born in
Chile. And they own one of Long Island's most highly rated French restaurants,
Soigne, in Woodmere.

Indeed, Mr. Echeverria's biography served as a counterpoint to Mr. Nicolosi's
pessimism. He was 10 when his family came to America in 1979, and he was an
illegal immigrant himself until the 1986 amnesty.

Still, he echoed Mr. Nicolosi's concerns about immigrants in unsafe basement
apartments. ''They cannot get a steady job because they are here illegally, so
they cannot pay for housing,'' he said.

On the other hand, they avoid middle-class tax burdens, Mr. Nicolosi contends,
sounding almost envious. He and a neighbor often joke that they should move to
Mexico and return illegally: ''Then we don't have to worry about health care,
don't have to worry about paying taxes. And if I worked for $100 a day I'd be
better off. After I pay taxes I don't even have $100 a day.''

From the basement, what struck the Mexican couple, however, was that Mr.
Nicolosi did not work.

''The man has nothing to do except look,'' the wife said in Spanish as her
husband cooked dinner. Recalling the Latino workers she saw renovating his
house, she added, ''If we weren't here, who would do the work?''

In Guanajuato, Mexico, Mr. O.'s best option was a job at General Motors that at
the time paid $10 a day, he said. Like everyone, he added, ''we came for a
better life for our children.''

What of the union battles of Mr. Nicolosi's grandparents? ''That's what we're
doing now,'' Ms. O. said. Taxes? ''We all consume,'' Mr. O. argued, with a
gesture that took in the dining table, the television and a picture of the Last
Supper. ''I'm paying the rent, so I'm paying the homeowner's taxes.''

But upstairs that day, their landlords were deciding to evict the family. An
official had called, alerting them to a new complaint by Mr. Nicolosi, the
Cervonis said. This time, with heightened public attention, it would lead to
hefty fines unless the basement was vacated.

Joseph Cervoni broke the news to the tenants the night President Bush spoke to
the nation about immigration. As word spread, neighbors blamed Mr. Nicolosi.
Carolyn Gilbert, a retired secretary who advocates an electrified fence at the
Mexican border, said he had no conscience. ''People forget the human
dimension,'' she said.

Louise Cerullo, 84, a registered Republican like Mr. Nicolosi, protested:
''They're human beings. If they can work and pay their rent, what's wrong with
that?''

The talk reached Mr. Nicolosi soon after his school board defeat. He denied
complaining, then threatened to sue local officials for identifying him, and
questioned the timing of the crackdown.

''They did it now to shut me up,'' he said.

On the first Saturday in June, the Mexican family moved out. Watching from next
door, Ms. Gilbert worried about the children's schooling, and wondered where
they could go. Probably, she said, to another basement apartment.

''For every problem, there's a solution,'' she added. ''For every solution
there's another problem.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick Nicolosi, below, a former school board candidate in
Elmont, N.Y., has filed many complaints about illegal apartments in town,
including the one occupied by the Mexican family across the street, above.
(Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Day laborers gathering for work along Hempstead Turnpike on Long Island. Patrick
Nicolosi of Elmont says they leave a mess and undercut wages. Some neighbors
call him a busybody. He says his motive is compassion. (Photo by Librado
Romero/The New York Times)
 On the door of the illegal apartment of a Mexican family is a prayer to the
Virgin of Guadalupe. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 9, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration -- and the Curse of the Black Legend

BYLINE: By Tony Horwitz.

Tony Horwitz, the author of ''Confederates in the Attic'' and ''Blue
Latitudes,'' is writing a book on the early exploration of North America.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1767 words

DATELINE: VINEYARD HAVEN, Mass.


COURSING through the immigration debate is the unexamined faith that American
history rests on English bedrock, or Plymouth Rock to be specific. Jamestown
also gets a nod, particularly in the run-up to its 400th birthday, but John
Smith was English, too (he even coined the name New England).

So amid the din over border control, the Senate affirms the self-evident truth
that English is our national language; ''It is part of our blood,'' Lamar
Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, says. Border vigilantes call themselves
Minutemen, summoning colonial Massachusetts as they apprehend Hispanics in the
desert Southwest. Even undocumented immigrants invoke our Anglo founders, waving
placards that read, ''The Pilgrims didn't have papers.''

These newcomers are well indoctrinated; four of the sample questions on our
naturalization test ask about Pilgrims. Nothing in the sample exam suggests that
prospective citizens need know anything that occurred on this continent before
the Mayflower landed in 1620. Few Americans do, after all.

This national amnesia isn't new, but it's glaring and supremely paradoxical at a
moment when politicians warn of the threat posed to our culture and identity by
an invasion of immigrants from across the Mexican border. If Americans hit the
books, they'd find what Al Gore would call an inconvenient truth. The early
history of what is now the United States was Spanish, not English, and our
denial of this heritage is rooted in age-old stereotypes that still entangle
today's immigration debate.

Forget for a moment the millions of Indians who occupied this continent for
13,000 or more years before anyone else arrived, and start the clock with
Europeans' presence on present-day United States soil. The first confirmed
landing wasn't by Vikings, who reached Canada in about 1000, or by Columbus, who
reached the Bahamas in 1492. It was by a Spaniard, Juan Ponce de Leon, who
landed in 1513 at a lush shore he christened La Florida.

Most Americans associate the early Spanish in this hemisphere with Cortes in
Mexico and Pizarro in Peru. But Spaniards pioneered the present-day United
States, too. Within three decades of Ponce de Leon's landing, the Spanish became
the first Europeans to reach the Appalachians, the Mississippi, the Grand Canyon
and the Great Plains. Spanish ships sailed along the East Coast, penetrating to
present-day Bangor, Me., and up the Pacific Coast as far as Oregon.

From 1528 to 1536, four castaways from a Spanish expedition, including a
''black'' Moor, journeyed all the way from Florida to the Gulf of California --
267 years before Lewis and Clark embarked on their much more renowned and far
less arduous trek. In 1540, Francisco Vazquez de Coronado led 2,000 Spaniards
and Mexican Indians across today's Arizona-Mexico border -- right by the
Minutemen's inaugural post -- and traveled as far as central Kansas, close to
the exact geographic center of what is now the continental United States. In
all, Spaniards probed half of today's lower 48 states before the first English
tried to colonize, at Roanoke Island, N.C.

The Spanish didn't just explore, they settled, creating the first permanent
European settlement in the continental United States at St. Augustine, Fla., in
1565. Santa Fe, N.M., also predates Plymouth: later came Spanish settlements in
San Antonio, Tucson, San Diego and San Francisco. The Spanish even established a
Jesuit mission in Virginia's Chesapeake Bay 37 years before the founding of
Jamestown in 1607.

Two iconic American stories have Spanish antecedents, too. Almost 80 years
before John Smith's alleged rescue by Pocahontas, a man by the name of Juan
Ortiz told of his remarkably similar rescue from execution by an Indian girl.
Spaniards also held a thanksgiving, 56 years before the Pilgrims, when they
feasted near St. Augustine with Florida Indians, probably on stewed pork and
garbanzo beans.

The early history of Spanish North America is well documented, as is the
extensive exploration by the 16th-century French and Portuguese. So why do
Americans cling to a creation myth centered on one band of late-arriving English
-- Pilgrims who weren't even the first English to settle New England or the
first Europeans to reach Plymouth Harbor? (There was a short-lived colony in
Maine and the French reached Plymouth earlier.)

The easy answer is that winners write the history and the Spanish, like the
French, were ultimately losers in the contest for this continent. Also, many
leading American writers and historians of the early 19th century were New
Englanders who elevated the Pilgrims to mythic status (the North's victory in
the Civil War provided an added excuse to diminish the Virginia story). Well
into the 20th century, standard histories and school texts barely mentioned the
early Spanish in North America.

While it's true that our language and laws reflect English heritage, it's also
true that the Spanish role was crucial. Spanish discoveries spurred the English
to try settling America and paved the way for the latecomers' eventual success.
Many key aspects of American history, like African slavery and the cultivation
of tobacco, are rooted in the forgotten Spanish century that preceded English
arrival.

There's another, less-known legacy of this early period that explains why we've
written the Spanish out of our national narrative. As late as 1783, at the end
of the Revolutionary War, Spain held claim to roughly half of today's
continental United States (in 1775, Spanish ships even reached Alaska). As
American settlers pushed out from the 13 colonies, the new nation craved Spanish
land. And to justify seizing it, Americans found a handy weapon in a set of
centuries-old beliefs known as the ''black legend.''

The legend first arose amid the religious strife and imperial rivalries of
16th-century Europe. Northern Europeans, who loathed Catholic Spain and envied
its American empire, published books and gory engravings that depicted Spanish
colonization as uniquely barbarous: an orgy of greed, slaughter and papist
depravity, the Inquisition writ large.

Though simplistic and embellished, the legend contained elements of truth. Juan
de Onate, the conquistador who colonized New Mexico, punished Pueblo Indians by
cutting off their hands and feet and then enslaving them. Hernando de Soto bound
Indians in chains and neck collars and forced them to haul his army's gear
across the South. Natives were thrown to attack dogs and burned alive.

But there were Spaniards of conscience in the New World, too: most notably the
Dominican priest Bartolome de Las Casas, whose defense of Indians impelled the
Spanish crown to pass laws protecting natives. Also, Spanish brutality wasn't
unique; English colonists committed similar atrocities. The Puritans were
arguably more intolerant of natives than the Spanish and the Virginia colonists
as greedy for gold as any conquistador. But none of this erased the black
legend's enduring stain, not only in Europe but also in the newly formed United
States.

''Anglo Americans,'' writes David J. Weber, the pre-eminent historian of Spanish
North America, ''inherited the view that Spaniards were unusually cruel,
avaricious, treacherous, fanatical, superstitious, cowardly, corrupt, decadent,
indolent and authoritarian.''

When 19th-century jingoists revived this caricature to justify invading Spanish
(and later, Mexican) territory, they added a new slur: the mixing of Spanish,
African and Indian blood had created a degenerate race. To Stephen Austin,
Texas's fight with Mexico was ''a war of barbarism and of despotic principles,
waged by the mongrel Spanish-Indian and Negro race, against civilization and the
Anglo-American race.'' It was the manifest destiny of white Americans to seize
and civilize these benighted lands, just as it was to take the territory of
Indian savages.

From 1819 to 1848, the United States and its army increased the nation's area by
roughly a third at Spanish and Mexican expense, including three of today's four
most populous states: California, Texas and Florida. Hispanics became the first
American citizens in the newly acquired Southwest territory and remained a
majority in several states until the 20th century.

By then, the black legend had begun to fade. But it seems to have found new life
among immigration's staunchest foes, whose rhetoric carries traces of both
ancient Hispanophobia and the chauvinism of 19th-century expansionists.

Representative J. D. Hayworth of Arizona, who calls for deporting illegal
immigrants and changing the Constitution so that children born to them in the
United States can't claim citizenship, denounces ''defeatist wimps unwilling to
stand up for our culture'' against alien ''invasion.'' Those who oppose making
English the official language, he adds, ''reject the very notion that there is a
uniquely American identity, or that, if there is one, that it is superior to any
other.''

Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, chairman of the House Immigration
Reform Caucus, depicts illegal immigration as ''a scourge'' abetted by ''a cult
of multiculturalism'' that has ''a death grip'' on this nation. ''We are
committing cultural suicide,'' Mr. Tancredo claims. ''The barbarians at the gate
will only need to give us a slight push, and the emaciated body of Western
civilization will collapse in a heap.''

ON talk radio and the Internet, foes of immigration echo the black legend more
explicitly, typecasting Hispanics as indolent, a burden on the American
taxpayer, greedy for benefits and jobs, prone to criminality and alien to our
values -- much like those degenerate Spaniards of the old Southwest and those
gold-mad conquistadors who sought easy riches rather than honest toil. At the
fringes, the vilification is baldly racist. In fact, cruelty to Indians seems to
be the only transgression absent from the familiar package of Latin sins.

Also missing, of course, is a full awareness of the history of the 500-year
Spanish presence in the Americas and its seesawing fortunes in the face of Anglo
encroachment. ''The Hispanic world did not come to the United States,'' Carlos
Fuentes observes. ''The United States came to the Hispanic world. It is perhaps
an act of poetic justice that now the Hispanic world should return.''

America has always been a diverse and fast-changing land, home to overlapping
cultures and languages. It's an homage to our history, not a betrayal of it, to
welcome the latest arrivals, just as the Indians did those tardy and uninvited
Pilgrims who arrived in Plymouth not so long ago.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Karen Barbour)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Florida Mayor Turns to an Immigration Curb to Fix a Fading City

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1285 words

DATELINE: AVON PARK, Fla., July 6


Tom Macklin, the mayor of this faded city deep in Florida's citrus belt, heard
the idea on talk radio and latched on with relish.

A city up north, Hazleton, Pa., planned to root out and punish landlords who
rented to illegal immigrants, fining them $1,000 for every such tenant. Mr.
Macklin, whose own small city has swelled with immigrants from Mexico, Haiti and
Jamaica over the past decade, swiftly proposed the same for Avon Park.

''It was almost as if I was sitting in church at a revival and he was preaching
to me,'' Mr. Macklin said of Mayor Lou Barletta of Hazleton, whom he heard
promoting that city's Illegal Immigration Relief Act on the radio show last
month. ''If we address the housing issue -- make it as difficult as possible for
illegals to find safe haven in Avon Park -- then they are going to have to find
someplace else to go.''

Like Hazleton's proposal, Avon Park's would deny business permits to companies
that knowingly hired illegal immigrants. The ordinance, which states that
illegal immigration ''destroys our neighborhoods and diminishes our overall
quality of life,'' would also make English the official language of Avon Park,
removing Spanish from all city documents, signs and automated phone messages.

The proposal has some of Avon Park's roughly 8,800 residents exalting, others
fuming and still others -- including those who rent rooms or apartments in the
scruffy Golden Age Villas, west of the abandoned train tracks -- plain scared.
The City Council passed it 3 to 2 on the first reading and is likely to adopt it
July 24.

''We just wouldn't be able to stay here,'' said Armando Garcia Cortes, 45, who
said he came to Avon Park, about 80 miles southeast of Orlando, from Veracruz,
Mexico, to pick oranges and fix roofs. ''They're going to see the farmworker
population here drop. We would all be leaving.''

John Koch, who sells glassware and model cars at the Broken Spoke Flea Market on
Main Street, said that would be fine.

''I think it's long overdue,'' Mr. Koch said of the proposal. ''If you don't put
a cap on it, it just gets out of hand.''

Both Mr. Macklin and Mr. Barletta said they were forced into drastic measures by
the federal government's failure to crack down on illegal immigration. Both said
that tightening the nation's borders would be the best solution, but that with
Congress still divided on immigration policy, they had to take action.

''When you have people begging you to do something, there comes a breaking
point,'' said Mr. Barletta, whose family settled in Hazleton when it was a
thriving coal center in the early 1900's. ''I feel very confident that what
we're doing is not only legal, but the right thing to do. I can't sit back and
watch my city being destroyed.''

Both mayors, white baby boomers who grew up in the 1960's and 70's, speak
wistfully of the days when nuclear families were the only occupants of
single-family homes in their towns, every resident paid taxes and English was
the only language heard on the streets. Mr. Macklin said the City of Charm, as
Avon Park has long called itself, no longer met that description, despite the
gazebo and shuffleboard courts on Main Street, several dainty lakes and
ubiquitous live oaks.

''When people come to our area,'' he said, ''they see degrading neighborhoods,
homes falling down among themselves, four or five vehicles parked in yards.
There's a perception for those that come to this area -- looking to perhaps
expand a business, move here -- that it might not necessarily be where they want
to be.''

Mr. Macklin, a Republican whose City Council is nonpartisan, said he had been
bombarded with positive feedback since proposing the ordinance in late June,
even getting e-mail messages from California and Illinois. But some residents
have called him racist, and others, like Joe Wright, a dairy farmer who said
two-thirds of his work force was Hispanic, said the ordinance would be
unenforceable and unconstitutional.

''It's going to be impossible to police,'' said Mr. Wright, whose dairy, outside
the city, has many employees who live in Avon Park. ''Are they actually going to
have their zoning people and policemen racially profile every Hispanic-looking
person? I mean, this just has a very chilling effect.''

Mr. Macklin said he expected opposition from citrus growers and cattle farmers,
many of whom say that they hire only workers with Social Security cards, but
that they cannot be sure the cards are authentic. The law would punish only
those who knowingly hired or rented to illegal immigrants, he said.

But Mary Bauer, director of the Immigrant Justice Project at the Southern
Poverty Law Center, said the proposal violated several laws, including the Fair
Housing Act and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act.

''The real problem is that it's obvious the effect of this will be to
discriminate against immigrants and Latinos generally,'' Ms. Bauer said, adding
that the center might sue if the ordinance passed. ''Any thinking landlord
reading this would likely decide that renting to immigrants or Latinos is a
risky proposition.''

Cesar A. Perales, president of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund, said he had sent two lawyers to meet with Hispanic groups in Hazleton
recently and might sue to stop its ordinance.

''The Latino community is just about as angry as any I've ever seen,'' Mr.
Perales said. ''They've come to Hazleton to be part of that community, and they
certainly improved the economic conditions of what by most accounts was a dying
town, and helped revitalize it. And they now feel they are being blamed for
every ill in the city.''

Mr. Barletta said his proposal, up for a final vote July 13, was modeled on a
similar one in San Bernardino, Calif., which stalled because its proponents
failed to gather enough signatures to get it on the ballot. He wrote it, he
said, after illegal immigrants committed several rattling crimes in Hazleton, a
city of 31,000, this year.

Both proposals have led to false rumors that have fanned fears in recent weeks.
At the Golden Age Villas in Avon Park, Ashley Neff, 20, whose boyfriend is an
illegal immigrant from Mexico, said she had heard that speaking Spanish would
not be allowed in shops and restaurants.

''They're saying they're not even going to let people in grocery stores,'' Ms.
Neff said. ''How is that fair? Even a lot of the people who are legal citizens
prefer to speak Spanish because it comes easier to them.''

Down the street, Patrick Graham, a Jamaican immigrant who said he was here
legally, said it was foolish to force out illegal immigrants because nobody else
would work in the fields and groves.

''I sure ain't going out there to pick any oranges,'' said Mr. Graham, who owns
a window-cleaning business. ''All the hard work, the Mexicans are doing it.''

Melva Santana, a shopkeeper who was among a crowd of whites, blacks and
Hispanics eating at Taqueria Merlo on Thursday, said she feared the ordinance
would encourage people who had kept their prejudices quiet to begin harassing
immigrants.

This week, Ms. Santana said, a sales clerk refused to sell her sister beer
because she had a Puerto Rico driver's license, and the clerk said, ''I can't
read it.''

At the flamingo-pink Avon Motel, which has operated here for 52 years, Dale
Graham, the manager, said he suspected that the proposal had come about because
illegal immigrants were not only picking citrus these days but also getting
construction and other higher-paying jobs.

''I think they're just a scapegoat,'' Mr. Graham said. ''What it comes down to
is the city is resistant to any kind of change or growth.''

Outside the motel, a sign read: American Family Owned. Drive Safely.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Armando Garcia Cortes, a worker from Mexico, says the
mayor's push to stop illegal immigration will force farmworkers to leave Avon
Park, Fla. Left, John Koch believes that preventing immigration will help his
city. Right, Mayor Tom Macklin calls his plan ''the right thing to do.''
(Photographs by Chris Livingston for The New York Times) Map of Florida
highlighting Avon Park: Avon Park, a city of about 8,800, is in Central
Florida's citrus belt.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Mid-Atlantic: Pennsylvania: Strict Immigration Ordinance

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 67 words


The Hazleton City Council approved an ordinance designed to make the city, in
northeastern Pennsylvania, among the most hostile places in the country for
illegal immigrants. The ordinance, passed 4 to 1, will deny licenses to
businesses that employ illegal immigrants, fine landlords $1,000 for each
illegal immigrant discovered renting their properties and require city documents
to be in English only.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas Hospitals' Separate Paths Reflect the Debate on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


The doctors and nurses at Parkland Memorial Hospital knew a lot about Zahira
Dominguez, a maternity patient who was beginning to feel the squeeze of her
contractions.

They knew that she had been born in Mexico, was a 15-year-old student at a
Dallas high school and had gone to her prenatal checkups. They knew she was
scared about giving birth.

What the hospital staff did not know, because they did not ask, was whether Ms.
Dominguez was an illegal immigrant.

''I don't want my doctors and nurses to be immigration agents,'' said Dr. Ron J.
Anderson, the president of Parkland.

Patients like Ms. Dominguez -- uninsured Hispanic immigrants with uncertain
immigration status -- have flocked in recent years to public hospital emergency
rooms and maternity wards in Texas, California and other border states. Their
care has swelled costs for struggling hospitals and increased the health care
bills that fall to states and counties, giving ammunition to opponents of
illegal immigration who complain of undue burdens on local taxpayers.

As a result, health care has become one of the sorest issues in the border
states' debate over illegal immigration. Facing harsh criticism from residents,
public hospitals are confronted with an uneasy decision: demand immigration
documents from patients and deny subsidized care to those who lack them, or
follow the public health principle of providing basic care to anyone who needs
it.

In Texas, two of the biggest public hospitals chose differently.

The Parkland Health and Hospital System, which serves Dallas County, offers
low-cost care to low-income residents with no questions asked about immigration
status.

''We decided that these are folks living in our community and we needed to
render the care,'' Dr. Anderson said.

In Fort Worth, in neighboring Tarrant County, JPS Health Network requires
foreign-born patients to show legal immigration documents to receive financial
assistance in nonemergencies, like elective surgery and the treatment of routine
or chronic illnesses. Executives said that their first responsibility was to
legal residents, but that they were uncomfortable about having to make such
distinctions.

''I don't think you should ask the hospital to make moral decisions for the
State of Texas or, for that matter, for the United States,'' said Robert Earley,
a senior vice president of JPS.

To some Fort Worth residents, the hospital -- which does provide emergency and
maternity care to illegal immigrants -- has nonetheless sent a message that
illegal immigrants are not welcome.

''Whenever immigrants go to the hospital, the first thing they are asked is,
'Who are you and where are your immigration papers?' '' said Jose Aguilar, a
leader of Allied Communities of Tarrant, a coalition of church-based community
groups that has pressured the JPS board to reverse its policy. ''They are being
scared away.''

Across Texas, the debate over illegal immigration has spilled into county
commission hearings and hospital board meetings. A study ordered by
commissioners in Harris County, which includes Houston, found that about
one-fifth of the patients in its health system last year were immigrants without
documents, most of them from Mexico. Their numbers had increased 44 percent in
three years, the study found, and their care had cost the county $97.3 million,
about 14 percent of the health system's total operating costs.

''We have a lot of United States citizens that need our help in health, and we
should pull them up before we pull up someone here illegally,'' said Tim
Gallagher, 45, a software salesman from Plano, north of Dallas, who in an
interview expressed views widely shared in the state. Mr. Gallagher said he
favored deporting illegal immigrants who sought care from public facilities,
even if the patient was a mother who gave birth to an American citizen.

''If somebody here needs health care, they should get it, and then if they are
illegal, they should go bye-bye,'' said Mr. Gallagher, who wrote a letter on the
subject to The Dallas Morning News.

In California, hospitals spent at least $1.02 billion last year on health care
for illegal immigrants that was not reimbursed by federal or state programs,
according to federal government estimates. Hospital officials there said the
ailing health care system was being pushed to its limit.

''Emergency rooms and hospital doctors are forced to subsidize the lack of
immigration enforcement by the federal government,'' said C. Duane Dauner,
president of the California Hospital Association. ''It amounts to an unfunded
mandate for us to treat everybody.''

California received $66 million in federal money in 2005, the first year of a
four-year national program to help pay for emergency care for illegal
immigrants. But it was ''not even a down payment'' on the total cost, Mr. Dauner
said. With more than 1.4 million of California's residents uninsured and more
than half of California's hospitals operating in the red, Mr. Dauner warned that
care for illegal immigrants could tip some hospitals into bankruptcy.

Even so, the surging numbers of illegal immigrants in the health care system
have fed some misconceptions, hospital administrators said.

While Texas border hospitals often get ''anchor babies'' -- children of Mexican
women who dart across the border to give birth to an American citizen -- most
illegal immigrants who go to major hospitals in Texas can show that they have
been living here for years, said Ernie Schmid, policy director at the Texas
Hospital Association. Many immigrant families have mixed status; often a patient
with no documents has a spouse or children who are legal.

Most immigrant patients have jobs and pay taxes, through paycheck deductions or
property taxes included in their rent, administrators at the Dallas and Fort
Worth hospitals said. At both institutions, they have a better record of paying
their bills than low-income Americans do, the administrators said.

The largest group of illegal immigrant patients is pregnant women, hospital
figures show. Contrary to popular belief here, their care is not paid for
through local taxes. Under a 2002 amendment to federal regulations, the births
are covered by federal taxes through Medicaid because their children
automatically become American citizens.

These cases are not affected by new regulations that went into effect on July 1
requiring Medicaid patients to provide proof of citizenship, Texas health
officials said. They said they believed that only small numbers of illegal
immigrants had received other Medicaid benefits.

Administrators at Parkland said the hospital delivered 11,500 babies last year
to mothers who were probably illegal immigrants, representing at least 56
percent of its maternity patients.

One was Ms. Dominguez, whose family brought her to Dallas from Mexico 11 years
ago. Guided through Parkland's prenatal care, the frightened teenager had an
unexceptional labor and a robust baby girl.

Many immigrants have sought low-cost care by going to Parkland's emergency room,
where, by federal law, they must be examined and treated, as is the case in any
emergency room. Leticia Martinez, 24, walked into the emergency room one morning
weak with cramps, fearing a miscarriage in her two-month pregnancy.

Ms. Martinez said she had been sure she would get care at Parkland because her
first baby had been born there. ''They help economically,'' she said. ''They
don't ask the immigration question.''

Dr. Anderson fiercely defends Parkland's open policy. ''It's much wiser to
render care than towait until they are very sick,'' he said.

In Fort Worth, JPS Health Network also provides low-cost prenatal care and
delivery for illegal immigrant mothers. It does not offer them help for other
nonemergency care.

In January 2004, the JPS board of managers voted to offer its financial
assistance program to all Tarrant County residents, legal or otherwise. But
eight months later, with illegal immigrants starting to fill the hospital, the
managers reversed course in a meeting where they agonized over their votes, the
minutes show.

The policy has given the hospital a mixed reputation among Hispanics in Fort
Worth.

Edy Patricia Rodriguez, 18, an illegal immigrant whose husband is an American
citizen, cuddled her newborn recently in a private, state-of-the-art room at the
JPS hospital. The child, Pablo F. Ibarra, born June 28, thrived in the network's
care, and his mother was satisfied.

But misunderstandings about immigration status clouded the case of Victoria
Canales, a Mexican immigrant who had sought care for advanced liver disease,
said her husband, Jesus Canales, 36.

Mrs. Canales was a legal resident and a member of the JPS network's low-income
program. But hospital staff members seemed confused about her case, Mr. Canales
said, and twice sent her home when she had gone to seek relief from the liquid
filling her body.

Humiliated, Mrs. Canales was reluctant to return to the hospital until she could
no longer manage at home, Mr. Canales said. She died June 26.

JPS officials say they do not refuse care to people who need it, but are
wrestling with the demands of county residents and changing state laws.

Mr. Earley, the JPS vice president, said, ''We have been bounced around like a
basketball on this issue.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2006



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Tuesday about hospital care for illegal
immigrants in Texas and other border states misstated the number of California
residents who have no health insurance. It is more than 6.4 million people, not
more than 1.4 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edy Patricia Rodriguez, 18, an illegal immigrant, recovered from
childbirth last month at the JPS Health Network hospital in Fort Worth. (Photo
by Misty Keasler for The New York Times)(pg. A18)Chart: ''Sharing the Costs of
Emergency Care''The federal government provides $250 million a year to reimburse
states for emergency health care for patients without immigration documents.
Two-thirds of the money is distributed based on the estimated number of illegal
immigrants in a state. One-third of the money is distributed among the six
states where the most illegal immigrants are apprehended.Federal reimbursement
for emergency health care for illegal-immigrant patients in the 2006 fiscal
yearTop states: 1. CaliforniaTotal, in millions: $66.6Top states: 2.
ArizonaTotal, in millions: 47.7Top states: 3. TexasTotal, in millions: 47.0Top
states: 4. New YorkTotal, in millions: 12.2Top states: 5. IllinoisTotal, in
millions: 10.3Top states: 6. FloridaTotal, in millions: 8.7Top states: 7. New
MexicoTotal, in millions: 5.7Top states: 8. GeorgiaTotal, in millions: 5.4Top
states: 9. New JerseyTotal, in millions: 5.3Top states: 10. North CarolinaTotal,
in millions: 4.9(Source by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 20, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


A front-page article on Tuesday about hospital care for illegal immigrants in
Texas and other border states misstated the number of California residents who
have no health insurance. It is more than 6.4 million people, not more than 1.4
million.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 20, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Search Arizona Desert for Immigrants

BYLINE: By PAUL GIBLIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, July 19


The authorities searched Wednesday for as many as 200 illegal immigrants who
they said may have been abandoned by smugglers this week in the desert west of
Phoenix.

The search began after Maricopa County sheriff's deputies and United States
Border Patrol agents found 90 illegal immigrants hiding Tuesday along a remote
road about 50 miles from Phoenix.

They were found without water or shelter as temperatures hovered around 110
degrees, Sheriff Joe Arpaio said. Seven were taken to hospitals to be treated
for dehydration.

The immigrants told the authorities that three people in their group had died
and that hundreds more remained hidden in the desert. The authorities have been
unable to verify those claims.

The discoveries were surprising because so many people were left with such
little protection from the midsummer heat.

The authorities have used helicopters, planes, off-road vehicles and dogs in the
search. But the heat and the location have made the task difficult, said Lt.
Paul Chagolla of the Sheriff's Office.

''Part of the problem is that it's so remote, cellphones don't work very well
and pretty much you have to have a search radio,'' Lieutenant Chagolla said.

Those who were taken into custody were all believed to be Mexicans, Sheriff
Arpaio said. The group included men and women ranging in age from about 15 to
35.

No charges will be filed, Sheriff Arpaio said, and deportation arrangements were
being made.

Based on interviews with those in custody, the authorities said they believed
smugglers had led the illegal immigrants across the border in several groups and
told them to stay out of sight in a dry riverbed until the smugglers returned to
take them to California and Nevada.

A deputy driving on a road used mostly by farmers about 20 miles north of
Interstate 10 saw a vehicle in the desert Tuesday afternoon. As he and another
deputy investigated, dozens of people emerged from the brush, pleading for water
and food. Others scattered into the desert.

The authorities rescued 85 people on Tuesday and 5 on Wednesday, Lieutenant
Chagolla said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A man found in the desert was treated for dehydration on
Tuesday. About 90 people were taken into custody. (Photo by Khampha
Bouaphanh/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Raise Wages, Not Walls

BYLINE: By Michael S. Dukakis and Daniel J. B. Mitchell.

Michael S. Dukakis, the governor of Massachusetts from 1975 to 1979 and from
1983 to 1991, is a professor of political science at Northeastern University.
Daniel J. B. Mitchell is a professor of management and public policy at the
University of California at Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 805 words


THERE are two approaches to illegal immigration currently being debated in
Congress. One, supported by the House, emphasizes border control and law
enforcement, including a wall along the Mexican border and increased border
patrols. The other, which is supported by the Bush administration and has been
passed by the Senate, relies on employers to police the workplace. Both
proposals have serious flaws.

As opponents of the House plan have rightly pointed out, walls rarely work;
illegal immigrants will get around them one way or another. Unless we erect
something akin to the Berlin Wall, which would cost billions to build and
police, a barrier on the border would be monitored by largely symbolic patrols
and easily evaded.

The Senate approach is more realistic but it, too, has problems. It creates a
temporary worker program but requires employers first to attempt to recruit
American workers to fill job openings. It allows for more border fencing, but
makes no effort to disguise the basic futility of the enterprise. Instead, it
calls on employers to enforce immigration laws in the workplace, a plan that can
only succeed through the creation and distribution of a costly national
identification card.

A national ID card raises serious questions about civil liberties, but they are
not the sole concern. The cost estimates for producing and distributing a
counterfeit-proof card for the roughly 150 million people currently in the labor
force -- and the millions more who will seek work in the near future -- extend
into the billions of dollars. Employers would have to verify the identity of
every American worker, otherwise the program would be as unreliable as the one
in place now. Anyone erroneously denied a card in this bureaucratic labyrinth
would be unemployable.

There is a simpler alternative. If we are really serious about turning back the
tide of illegal immigration, we should start by raising the minimum wage from
$5.15 per hour to something closer to $8. The Massachusetts legislature recently
voted to raise the state minimum to $8 and California may soon set its minimum
even higher. Once the minimum wage has been significantly increased, we can
begin vigorously enforcing the wage law and other basic labor standards.

Millions of illegal immigrants work for minimum and even sub-minimum wages in
workplaces that don't come close to meeting health and safety standards. It is
nonsense to say, as President Bush did recently, that these jobs are filled by
illegal immigrants because Americans won't do them. Before we had mass illegal
immigration in this country, hotel beds were made, office floors were cleaned,
restaurant dishes were washed and crops were picked -- by Americans.

Americans will work at jobs that are risky, dirty or unpleasant so long as they
provide decent wages and working conditions, especially if employers also
provide health insurance. Plenty of Americans now work in such jobs, from mining
coal to picking up garbage. The difference is they are paid a decent wage and
provided benefits for their labor.

However, Americans won't work for peanuts, and these days the national minimum
wage is less than peanuts. For full-time work, it doesn't even come close to the
poverty line for an individual, let alone provide a family with a living wage.
It hasn't been raised since 1997 and isn't enforced even at its currently
ridiculous level.

Yet enforcing the minimum wage doesn't require walling off a porous border or
trying to distinguish yesterday's illegal immigrant from tomorrow's ''guest
worker.'' All it takes is a willingness by the federal government to inspect
workplaces to determine which employers obey the law.

Curiously, most members of Congress who take a hard line on immigration also
strongly oppose increasing the minimum wage, claiming it will hurt businesses
and reduce jobs. For some reason, they don't seem eager to acknowledge that many
of the jobs they claim to hold dear are held by the same illegal immigrants they
are trying to deport.

But if we want to reduce illegal immigration, it makes sense to reduce the
abundance of extremely low-paying jobs that fuels it. If we raise the minimum
wage, it's possible some low-end jobs may be lost; but more Americans would also
be willing to work in such jobs, thereby denying them to people who aren't
supposed to be here in the first place. And tough enforcement of wage rules
would curtail the growth of an underground economy in which both illegal
immigration and employer abuses thrive.

Raising the minimum wage and increasing enforcement would prove far more
effective and less costly than either proposal currently under consideration in
Congress. If Congress would only remove its blinders about the minimum wage, it
may see a plan to deal effectively with illegal immigration, too.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida City Rejects Stringent Law on Migrants

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Lynn Waddell contributed reporting from Avon Park,
Fla., for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 24


The Avon Park City Council rejected an ordinance Monday that would have cracked
down on illegal immigrants after one member changed her vote amid strong protest
about the law.

The ordinance, called the Illegal Immigration Relief Act, would have fined
landlords $1,000 for every tenant found to be an illegal immigrant, denied city
permits, contracts and grants to businesses that employed illegal immigrants and
required city documents to be in English only. Mayor Tom Macklin of Avon Park, a
city of about 9,000 in Florida's citrus belt, proposed it last month after
hearing of a similar plan in Hazleton, Pa.

Councilwoman Brenda Gray, who voted for the measure on first reading last month,
voted against it on final reading Monday night after a heated public hearing
where dozens of residents spoke for and against it.

Ms. Gray said she had changed her mind because she disagreed with the
ordinance's claim that illegal immigration ''leads to higher crime rates,
contributes to overcrowded classrooms and failing schools, subjects our
hospitals to fiscal hardship and legal residents to substandard quality of care,
and destroys our neighborhoods and diminishes our overall quality of life.''

''No one could give me any literature or anything that showed me that was
true,'' Ms. Gray said after the vote.

Last week, the City Council fired the city attorney, Michael Disler, after he
told The Ledger of Lakeland that the ordinance had serious flaws.

Ms. Gray told The Ledger last week that she had originally supported the measure
because Avon Park's black residents strongly supported it. She is the council's
only black member.

At the long public hearing before Monday's vote, some black residents spoke in
favor of the ordinance, saying they were tired of competing with illegal
immigrants for jobs and housing.

''The hiring of these illegals will have a devastating effect on the people of
Avon Park,'' said Willie Jenkins, a resident. ''This illegal practice will take
away jobs from our high school kids looking for employment.''

Opponents of the ordinance included local citrus growers and farmers who feared
it would decimate their labor force. Florida's citrus industry is already
experiencing a labor shortage, and some growers have blamed the national
crackdown on illegal immigrants for scaring away migrant workers.

''The bottom line is we hire them because Americans don't want to milk cows,''
said Joe Wright, a dairy farmer who pleaded with the council to vote down the
ordinance. ''If folks in Avon Park want to work, we have plenty of good jobs
just waiting for them.''

Mayor Macklin said earlier this month that he proposed the ordinance out of
frustration at the federal government's failure to curb illegal immigration. It
was virtually identical to the one passed in Hazleton on July 13.

At least two civil rights groups, the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund and the American Civil Liberties Union, had threatened to challenge the
ordinance in court, saying it violated the Fair Housing Act and Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 26, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: Decline Seen In Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 91 words


Border Patrol officials said the number of immigrants entering the country
illegally had declined since President Bush announced his plan to send National
Guard troops to help secure the border with Mexico. The Border Patrol chief,
David V. Aguilar, reported a 45 percent decline in apprehensions of illegal
immigrants when comparing the 69 days before Mr. Bush's speech on May 15 with
the 69 days after it. The National Guard deployment is expected to reach full
strength by Aug. 1, with about 6,100 troops at the border.   RACHEL L. SWARNS
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 28, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Town Battling Illegal Immigration Is Emptier Now

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: RIVERSIDE, N.J., July 27


The downtown streets of this working-class town -- usually filled with many of
the immigrants who have made this place home -- were unusually empty the day
after the Township Council approved an ordinance banning employers and landlords
from hiring or housing illegal immigrants.

At a heated meeting on Wednesday night that one resident compared to ''The Jerry
Springer Show,'' Riverside's five-member Council unanimously approved the
Illegal Immigration Relief Act, citing overcrowded apartments, jammed parking
lots, and a strain on the town's schools and social services, as reasons for
passing the measure.

''They're jealous of the Brazilians because they're hard workers and they live
well,'' said Celeste Martiniano, a Portuguese-American who owns the Pavilion
Barbecue restaurant here.

Efforts to reach Mayor Charles Hilton and members of the Township Council were
unsuccessful.

The new law is similar to a measure passed in Hazleton, Pa., earlier this month
and others being discussed by municipalities around the country. In Congress,
the explosive illegal immigration issue has been bogged down over guest worker
passes and the level of border enforcement.

Fines start at $1,000 for violations of the Riverside ordinance, which makes it
illegal to hire people who cannot prove they are legally in the United States,
or to rent or lease them property. A violator also could lose his or her
business permit for five years.

Before Brazilian immigrants began moving here in the last five years or so, Ms.
Martiniano said, the downtown business district, once a bustling shopping area,
had been in decline. But the new ordinance, she said, ''this is going to kill
the town.''

For the last 25 years, Ms. Martiniano has lived in this Burlington County town
of 8,000 residents, where as many as 2,000 to 3,000 immigrants live today.
Business has been good since the opening of her restaurant two years ago,
largely because of the growing Brazilian population. But on this day, there were
no takers for the chicken legs spinning on spits over open flames.

Ms. Martiniano said that immigrants here were scared in the aftermath of the
vote, and that those who have been most vocal against immigrants ''are not
working and have nothing better to do.''

Ingrid Reinhold said that the new ordinance smacked of discrimination. She and
her husband, Gustav, own three businesses along Scott Street: a music store that
features mostly Latin music, a Brazilian cafe that is undergoing renovations,
and a bustling Western Union office, where many of the immigrants can stay in
contact with relatives back home. Down the block is another Brazilian restaurant
and a Brazilian nail salon. The yellow and green Brazilian flag is pasted to
many shop windows.

''Three years ago this was a dead town,'' said Ms. Reinhold, who was born in
Ecuador. ''Now you see all the stores are open, the people are out. If they do
this, it's going to be like it was before.''

Standing in front of his recording studio next door, Ed Robins talked about the
Wednesday Council meeting. Describing the meeting's adversarial atmosphere among
members in the audience, Mr. Robins said ''it reminded me of being on Jerry
Springer.''

Although his business depends very little on the town's growing immigrant
population, Mr. Robins also worried about the ordinance's impact on the business
district and real estate values, which he said have increased with the influx of
Brazilians.

''As a community, we should have drawn everybody together, including the
illegals and approached it intelligently, rather than taking this small town and
ripping it apart,'' Mr. Robins said.

Certainly, the Brazilians are not the only immigrant population to call
Riverside home. This town on the Delaware River was originally settled by
Germans in 1851, followed by Poles, Italians and Irish in the early 20th
century. Once a thriving industrial town, the immigrants provided much of the
workforce for the textile mills of Riverside, once the country's leading
manufacturer of men's hosiery, and the Philadelphia Watchcase Company,
headquartered here until it closed its doors in 1956.

After the factories closed, the movie theater burned down and many shoppers
migrated to nearby malls. Its new distinction, recognized at one point by the
Guinness Book of World Records, was having the most bars and liquor licenses in
a mile-square town.

Many of those bars remain, and in some of them there is talk about what needs to
be done to slow the tide of immigration.

At Big Daddy's Pub on Scott Street, Dave Dalhman Jr., described the town's
growing immigrant population as ''a swarm of bees.'' Having lived here for the
first 40 years of his life, Mr. Dalhman said he was forced to move to a
neighboring town two years ago.

''I'm a minority here now,'' said Mr. Dalhman. ''I love this town. I was born
and raised here, and I'd love to come back here, but that's not going to
happen.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riverside, N.J., where the Council approved an ordinance banning
employers and landlords from hiring or housing illegal immigrants. (Photo by Tim
Larsen for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senegalese Teenager in Deportation Fight Wins Right to Study in America

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words


It was the unexpected success of his East Harlem high school robotics team in
April that forced Amadou Ly, 18, to reveal his secret: He was an illegal
immigrant from Senegal, left at 14 to fend for himself in hopes of completing an
American education, but caught instead in what seemed like a losing battle
against deportation.

But when the secret became front-page news in The New York Times, scores of
strangers rallied to his side. To pressure the Department of Homeland Security
on his behalf, volunteer lawyers built a team that included 6 senators, 23
members of the House of Representatives, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the
Senegalese ambassador. Word spread that even the man in the Oval Office had
weighed in.

And yesterday, Amadou carried home the prize: a student visa that will allow him
to stay in the United States legally and go to college.

''It's like a dream has come true,'' he said, already picking out the English
and math courses he will take at the New York City College of Technology in the
fall. ''Every day in this country is like a gift. To tell you the truth, all the
people who really helped me, I won't be able to thank them all -- but I'll do my
best to make them proud.''

In the end, Amadou's story won over everyone, said Ilona Cohen, a lawyer with
the well-connected law firm WilmerHale, which orchestrated intensive lobbying in
Washington while in New York lawyers at Latham & Watkins and the Legal Aid
Society brainstormed on strategy. Officials at Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, part of Homeland Security, agreed to drop the deportation
proceedings, opening the way for Citizenship and Immigration Services to grant
the student visa.

''Public officials really put pressure on ICE because they had the foresight to
understand that the country really needs people like Amadou,'' Ms. Cohen said.

Yet so many agencies, complex rules and expiring deadlines were involved that
until yesterday the outcome still seemed uncertain, said Amy Meselson, the Legal
Aid Society lawyer who had added Amadou to a caseload of hundreds of
unaccompanied minors facing deportation when he showed up in immigration court
alone in April.

Last week, everything seemed to hinge on renewing Amadou's passport from
Senegal, which had been confiscated by federal officials in 2004 and meanwhile
had expired. Government lawyers were willing to lend it briefly to Ms. Meselson,
and she described a frantic cab ride with Amadou to the Senegalese Consulate
last Friday, minutes before it closed. Senegalese officials made a special
exception in extending it.

Another last-minute wrinkle arose when the college official expected to sign the
necessary foreign student forms turned out to be ''incommunicado in a cabin in
Maine,'' she said. A substitute was eventually found to do the job.

Part of the urgency, Ms. Meselson said, was that officially, Amadou was only
days away from accumulating 180 days of illegal presence in the United States, a
milestone that could have barred him from returning for three years if forced to
leave.

''It's totally amazing,'' she said, reflecting on how things turned out.

Amadou's mother brought him from Dakar on a visitor's visa when he was 13 and
left him here after the visa expired. He did odd jobs to buy food and school
supplies, and took shelter with a family friend who could sign his report card
when he enrolled at Central Park East High School. Deportation proceedings
against him began in November 2004 after a state trooper in Pennsylvania
reported him to immigration authorities. Amadou had come to the trooper's
attention as a passenger in a car accident.

But last year when Amadou's underdog robotics team beat those from the city's
elite schools and was invited to compete nationally in Atlanta, he revealed that
he had no government-issued identification to board a plane. While his teammates
flew to Atlanta, he set off on an 18-hour train journey to join them. By the
time he arrived, response to the article had drawn wide news media coverage, as
well as a shower of money for college tuition.

At the time, the lawyers thought his best chance was passage of a measure known
as the Dream Act, which offers a path to citizenship to some young people. But
the measure is languishing in Congress in an impasse of competing immigration
legislation.

On the one hand, Ms. Cohen said, Amadou's story is ''a triumph of good
government.'' On the other, she added, ''it's about the nature of a system that
only provides relief for one kid -- with well-connected attorneys -- at a
time.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Every day in this country is like a gift,'' said Amadou Ly,
shown yesterday in Harlem. He has been on his own since he was 14. (Photo by
Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Puts Onus On Employers Of Immigrants

BYLINE: BY JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, July 30


Immigration agents had prepared a nasty surprise for the Garcia Labor Company, a
temporary worker contractor, when they moved against it on charges of hiring
illegal immigrants. They brought a 40-count federal indictment, part of a new
nationwide strategy by immigration officials to clamp down on employers of
illegal immigrant laborers.

Maximino Garcia, the president of the company, which provides low-wage laborers
to businesses from Pennsylvania to Texas, stood before a federal judge here on
Tuesday to answer conspiracy charges of aiding illegal immigrants and money
laundering. If convicted, Mr. Garcia, who pleaded not guilty, could serve 20
years in jail and forfeit his headquarters building and $12 million.

The criminal charges against Mr. Garcia and his company were brought by the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, part of the Department of Homeland
Security. The campaign has included at least five other federal indictments of
business executives in Ohio and Kentucky and has sent payroll managers rushing
to re-examine their workers' papers and rethink plans for their work force.

It also created a new environment of fear in Ohio's immigrant communities.

''It's a very uneasy feeling,'' said Sister Teresa Ann Wolf, a Roman Catholic
nun who works with immigrant workers in Canton, Ohio. ''People are afraid to
leave the house to go to the store. They are afraid to come to church.''

Until recently, the worst that Mr. Garcia, 43, might have expected from the
immigration authorities was a civil fine and the deportation of some illegal
workers. In April, with President Bush under fire from both Democrats and
Republicans who accused him of being lax on employers of illegal immigrants,
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced the new campaign. It
focuses on those suspected of violations with felony charges that could lead to
huge financial penalties and the seizing of assets.

The White House is hoping the increased enforcement will strengthen Mr. Bush's
hand in the battle over immigration reform, Homeland Security Department
officials said, by pre-empting House Republicans who are pressing a bill they
passed in December that centers on enforcement and border security but does not
provide a way for illegal immigrants to become legal. The president supports a
bipartisan Senate measure that enhances enforcement but also opens a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrant and creates a guest worker program.

For years, workplace raids were a low priority for immigration authorities.
Testifying in June before a Senate immigration subcommittee, Richard M. Stana, a
director in the Government Accountability Office, reported that civil fine
notices issued to employers dropped to 3 in 2003, from 417 in 1999.

Officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which was created in 2003 and
is known as I.C.E., acknowledge that past efforts were lackluster.

''We found that the fines were not an effective deterrent,'' said Julie L.
Myers, the Department of Homeland Security assistant secretary who heads I.C.E.
''Employers treated them as part of the cost of doing business.''

While the old immigration agency brought 25 criminal charges against employers
in 2002, this year Immigration and Customs Enforcement has already made 445
criminal arrests of employers, officials said. Some 2,700 immigrant workers were
caught up in those operations, and most were deported, the officials said.

Hiring illegal immigrants ''has been a low-risk, high-reward enterprise,'' said
Brian M. Moskowitz, the agency's special agent in charge for Ohio and Michigan.
''We want to send the message that your cost of business just went up because
you risk your livelihood, your corporate reputation and your personal freedom.''

Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents said they homed in on Garcia Labor
because of a contract it had with ABX Air, a cargo airline that flies express
shipments for DHL, with a fleet of 112 airplanes based at its privately owned
airport in Wilmington, Ohio. From 1999 to 2005, the indictment charges, Garcia
Labor sent more than 1,000 illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, to sort freight
at ABX Air.

Companies like Garcia Labor have sprung up across the United States. Instead of
hiring immigrants directly, employers create a buffer by contracting with a
labor company, which is responsible for verifying its workers' documents.
Employers can argue that that they were not aware that workers provided by a
contractor did not have valid papers.

According to the indictment, in a single month, May 2003, the Social Security
Administration informed Mr. Garcia that 186 of his employees who were working at
ABX Air had invalid Social Security numbers. Garcia Labor continued to send
laborers to ABX Air even after they answered no when asked on applications if
they were eligible to work in the United States, the indictment says.

''This was a huge, gaping vulnerability,'' Mr. Moskowitz said. ''You had people
who you really don't know who they are having access to the underbelly of an
airplane.''

Two other executives associated with Garcia Labor were accused along with Mr.
Garcia. His lawyer, James Perry, said he could not comment on pending
litigation.

Douglas Steele, a human resources manager for ABX Air, pleaded guilty in April
to one misdemeanor charge of hiring illegal immigrants and agreed to a $10,000
fine. ABX Air said in a statement last week that the company ended its contracts
with Garcia Labor in February 2005 and had sued Garcia Labor for breach of
contract.

In April, federal indictments were brought against two temporary labor companies
in Canton, identified as HV Connect Inc. and TN Job Service. In raids in
mid-May, agents arrested four supervisors from Fischer Homes, a home builder in
northern Kentucky, as well as 76 illegal immigrant workers at company
construction sites.

On July 20, two other Kentucky corporations, Asha Ventures and Narayan, pleaded
guilty to harboring illegal immigrants. They provided workers for Holiday Inn
and other hotels in Kentucky. The next day, federal agents shut down a
prosperous Chinese restaurant, Bee's Buffet in Fairfield, Ohio, and took away
the owner, Jing Fei Jiang. He was charged with importing illegal Asian workers
who were living in the basement of his home.

The impact of the blitz was immediate, both among illegal immigrants and
American Latinos. The wave of anxiety came as immigrants were feeling new
confidence after two nationwide demonstrations in the spring where they rallied
for immigration reform.

''People took a giant step backwards,'' said Sylvia Castellanos, a leader of a
Cincinnati coalition of Hispanic immigrants. Neighborhood gatherings stopped,
she said. Owners of Hispanic groceries and restaurants reported slower business.

''It is causing people to watch their backs,'' said Ruben Castilla Herrera, a
Mexican-American leader of the Latino Leadership Initiative, an Ohio group. He
said Latinos were worried that they could come under law enforcement suspicion.

''All I have to do is take off my tie and I can be confused,'' Mr. Herrera said.
''What's to say whether I am legal or illegal?'' Mr. Herrera said many Ohio
immigrants believed the I.C.E. raids were timed to respond to the spring
marches. Agency officials said their operations were not related to the
protests.

Juan Jose Perez, a lawyer in Columbus who represents many Hispanic businesses,
said that under the labor laws, managers were not required to verify their
workers' documents exhaustively. He said managers were scrambling to find out
what they should do to protect themselves and to take care of their workers if
they learned that some were illegal immigrants.

''The need for workers continues,'' said Mr. Perez, a Mexican-American who said
he started out as a Texas farmworker and is now the head of a law firm and the
chairman of the Ohio Republican Hispanic Assembly. Despite the anxiety among
immigrants, ''nobody is going home,'' he said. ''They remain and become fearful
and try to become more anonymous.''

That was what was happening Saturday up the listing, garbage-strewn stairs of a
dingy clapboard house in Cincinnati where seven immigrants from Mexico and
Guatemala had been detained in an immigration agency sweep in mid-July. Some
illegal immigrant residents escaped capture because they were at work that day.

''The fright nearly killed me,'' said Silvia T., 39, a Mexican who was one of
the few building residents willing to open their door to a stranger. Two
relatives were caught in the raid and deported, she said. Now she stays indoors
with the jitters as rumors swirl daily about another raid.

''Migration takes us away with no respect,'' said Silvestre G., 55, another
building resident, who is from Guatemala. ''They forget that we have human blood
in our veins too.''

The immigrants asked that their last names not be published.

Mr. Moskowitz, the special agent, said the agency's priority was not to deport
immigrant workers, but to stop employers who built their businesses on cheap
immigrant labor.

''These are not crimes of passion,'' he said. ''Nobody wakes up in the middle of
the night and says, 'I'm going to hire illegal aliens.' These are people who
have made a conscious decision that they can profit from this.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Splitting the Difference at the Border

BYLINE: By Jill Stewart.

Jill Stewart writes a syndicated column on California politics.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 927 words

DATELINE: Sacramento


AS a decidedly non-mainstream Republican in a decidedly Democratic state, Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger of California has had to walk a tightrope, and he's
slipped more than once. But on a tricky issue that's confounding both parties,
he has managed to find a clever third way: The immigrant from Austria who made
good is pursuing a pragmatic approach to illegal immigration that warring
elements in Washington might do well to emulate.

Facing re-election in November and bolstered by newly rosy poll numbers, Mr.
Schwarzenegger is shaping a policy that audaciously sticks a foot in both the
anti-illegal immigrant and pro-illegal immigrant camps. His dizzyingly mixed
viewpoints, which generate headlines in California, make the recent
Congressional hearings on illegal immigration -- which he dismissed as ''a road
show'' -- look even more contrived by comparison.

Mr. Schwarzenegger's views might best be described as tough on security with
dollops of humanity. For example, he persuaded the Legislature to repeal a law
that would have given driver's licenses to illegal aliens without a background
check -- which gave rise to legitimate concerns about terrorists getting ID's --
but has since left the door open to signing such a law if better security
safeguards are included.

Likewise, he reluctantly agreed in early June to send 1,000 members of the
California National Guard to the Mexican border, but refused a request later
that month from President Bush to send 1,500 guardsmen to other states. Unhappy
with slow progress by the Bush administration on immigration reform, he is
maintaining pressure by saying he won't keep the guard at the California-Mexico
border after 2008.

The governor has also split the baby on social services. He insists that ''every
child, if they are here legally or illegally'' must get schooling and health
care -- and has poured vast sums into both this year. Yet he defied California's
liberal Legislature on a plan to spend hundreds of millions of additional
dollars on a statewide subsidized health care program known as Healthy Families
that is used by many illegal immigrants.

Recently, Mr. Schwarzenegger has added Arnoldo Torres to his campaign team as
Latino voter- outreach guru. Mr. Torres, a Democrat and former political
commentator for Univision, the Spanish-language TV network, played a key role in
President Ronald Reagan's 1986 liberalization of immigration laws (which he now
says was a flop).

Mr. Torres was a canny hire because he has credibility among a wide swath of
Mexican-Americans and immigration advocates but he isn't tied down to the
traditional pro-immigration cant. For example, he says that Mexico's listless
political and business classes should stop wallowing in the past and start
creating jobs -- a politically incorrect view that is rarely uttered by Latino
leaders in the United States.

Now, with his re-election campaign against the Democratic state treasurer, Phil
Angelides, heating up, Mr. Schwarzenegger generated headlines by expressing
regret over his previous praise for the Minutemen border patrols and by telling
a Spanish-language newspaper he was ''wrong'' in 1994 for backing Proposition
187 (the measure approved by California voters but overturned by the courts that
would have banned illegal immigrants from receiving welfare, college tuition
subsidies and other benefits). Defending his change of heart, Mr. Schwarzenegger
said it was better to admit he'd been mistaken than to act as if he'd been
right.

This sort of pragmatism eluded the governor's predecessors, Pete Wilson and Gray
Davis, whose careers foundered in part on the issue of illegal immigration. Mr.
Wilson, a moderate Republican, sided with his party's conservative wing on
Proposition 187 and was forever (unfairly) painted by the press as
anti-immigrant. Mr. Davis, a moderate Democrat, sided with his party's left wing
in signing the law giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. That
signature helped ensure his recall from office.

Over lunch recently, Mr. Schwarzenegger told me he was ''fed up'' with the
warring in Congress and believed that Americans would grow more divided if
immigration reform wasn't approved this year. He said he backed the basic idea
of a guest worker plan and a pathway to citizenship, but took a dim view of
letting millions of illegal immigrants go to the front of the line while
law-abiding foreigners in desperately poor countries spend years awaiting entry.

While he would not delineate what he thought Washington should do, a few steps
suggest themselves. The House Republicans, for example, might rebuke the
vigilantist tendencies of the Minutemen, which would make it harder for their
opponents to brand them as heartless.

Senate Republicans might get past all the questions over the ''fairness'' of
their softer approach by showing some of the governor's practicality and
explaining precisely how all the law-abiding foreigners who have waited years
for admission to the United States are going to be kept at the ''front'' of the
line if more than 11 million illegal immigrants have already cut into the queue.

Congressional Democrats, for their part, might take note of the governor's
success at drawing a line between paying for essential needs of immigrant
children and providing broader entitlements that simply lead to more illegal
immigration.

In pursuing a mixed ideology based on pragmatism and an underlying commonality,
Arnold Schwarzenegger may be showing Congress, the White House and the nation a
way out of the current morass.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sheriff Defies Transgressors By Billboard And by Blog

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: HAMILTON, Ohio, July 30


''I'm outspoken about illegal aliens,'' Sheriff Richard K. Jones of Butler
County told a visitor to his office. ''You may have picked up on that.''

To eliminate doubts about his views, Sheriff Jones posted six billboards by
roadways in this proudly conservative blue-collar county. ''Hire an illegal --
break the law!'' the signs warn, with a photograph of the sheriff.

He also took out half-page advertisements in local newspapers to convey his
message, and he set up a blog to promote a boycott of local businesses that
employ illegal immigrants. The sheriff then opened a tip line so citizens could
report any employers they suspected.

And right outside the sheriff's office, yellow street signs read ''Illegal
Aliens Here,'' with an arrow pointing to the adjoining jailhouse.

''I wanted to let the federal government know that if they couldn't find any
illegals, I've got some right here in my jail,'' said the sheriff, a
conservative Republican.

The sheriff has drawn complaints from Hispanic business owners, who say their
customers stay home and their sales drop whenever he speaks out.

''Every time the sheriff talks on the radio, people call me to ask if the
immigration police are in the street,'' said Miguel Garcia, 31, a legal Mexican
immigrant who owns Supermercado Garcia, a grocery store in Hamilton.

In May, Sheriff Jones sent his deputies to a construction site after a report
that tension was brewing between American and immigrant workers. He detained 18
immigrants for questioning, prompting objections from the American Civil
Liberties Union that he had overstepped his authority.

Sheriff Jones says that he does not try to enforce federal immigration laws, but
that he can apply state labor and tax laws to combat what he calls ''the
underground economy.''

His goal, he says, is to prevent labor exploitation.

''People that hire illegals make lots of money on other people's backs,''
Sheriff Jones said. ''There isn't much sympathy for that in this county.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard K. Jones, an Ohio sheriff, is using billboards and other
means to combat illegal immigration. (Photo by Mark Lyons for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nine Passengers Are Killed in Chase at Border

BYLINE: By PAUL GIBLIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Aug. 7


Nine suspected illegal immigrants were killed and 13 others were injured after a
sport utility vehicle overturned while being pursued by Border Patrol agents
near Yuma, Ariz., on Monday, officials said.

The vehicle, a Chevrolet Suburban, was carrying 22 people when it flipped, said
Lloyd Frers, a senior agent for the Border Patrol.

Five people died at the scene, and four died after being taken to Yuma Regional
Medical Center. Agents had spotted the vehicle on a desert road that circumvents
a Border Patrol checkpoint on Highway 95 near the California line, Agent Frers
said.

''That's a common tactic used by smugglers,'' he said. ''They either drop people
and have them walk around or they try to drive around it.''

The driver noticed that he had been detected, made a U-turn and sped away on the
dirt road through a sandy area of desert toward the highway, the Border Patrol
said.

The driver was trying to avoid a spike strip, designed to flatten tires, when
the vehicle rolled about 6:50 a.m., said Major Leon Wilmot of the Yuma County
Sheriff's Office.

The accident is under investigation, as is the immigration status of the
passengers, Agent Frers said.

It was not immediately known how far the chase went or what speeds it reached.

Hector Yturralde of the Arizona chapter of We Are America, an immigrant rights
group, said the pursuing agents should face serious consequences if they are
found to be at fault.

''I'd say that's extreme measures for undocumentation,'' Mr. Yturralde said. ''I
never hear them doing that to these drug smugglers that are really armed. They
stay away from them. They go after these poor, innocent people that are just
trying to get in for work.''

The Yuma area is one of the busiest spots on the United States-Mexico border for
illegal immigration, even after increased enforcement. Agents reported 6,030
arrests in June, down 48 percent from 11,522 in June of last year.

The Border Patrol's Yuma sector is a mostly unfenced stretch of 118 miles lined
with saguaro cactuses and dry riverbeds.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paramedics and firefighters working yesterday at the scene of an
accident near Yuma, Ariz., that killed nine suspected illegal immigrants. (Photo
by Terry Ketron/The Yuma Sun, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Hamburg: Immigrants Arrested At Fair

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 75 words


Immigration agents yesterday arrested 41 illegal immigrants who had been hired
to clean up at a county fair, officials said. The immigrants, 23 men and 18
women from Mexico, Guatemala, Peru and Honduras, were detained pending
appearances in immigration court. A tip led federal agents to round up the
suspects, who were working for a cleaning company. No criminal charges were
immediately filed against the cleaning company, which was not identified.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Mid-Atlantic: Pennsylvania: Immigration Ordinance Suit

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1063 words


Civil rights campaigners sued the City of Hazleton, seeking to block a tough
ordinance on illegal immigration. The suit says the City Council violated the
Constitution when it passed the measure denying business permits to companies
that hire illegal immigrants and fining landlords who rent to them. Mayor Louis
J. Barletta, who says illegal immigration from Mexico and Central America has
increased crime and overburdened schools and hospitals, predicted that the
ordinance would survive a court challenge.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Newark: Groups Denounce Town's Ordinance On Illegal
Immigrants

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 112 words


Several groups yesterday asked a judge in Federal District Court in Newark to
overturn an ordinance passed by the town of Riverside banning the hiring and
housing of illegal immigrants. The groups, including the National Coalition of
Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders, assert that the town law unconstitutionally
assumes powers rightfully handled by the federal government. The lawsuit seeks
$10 million in damages. On July 26, Riverside approved an ordinance making
hiring or renting property to people who cannot prove legal residence punishable
by fines. The law, under review by the state's Division of Civil Rights, is
believed to be the first of its kind in New Jersey.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congressman Endorses Suffolk County Plan to Bar Contractors From Using Illegal
Immigrants

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., Aug. 16


Suffolk County's plan to prohibit local government contractors from hiring
illegal immigrants won an endorsement on Wednesday from a key member of Congress
on domestic security issues, who urged communities across the nation to follow
the county's example in grappling with immigration.

Until the federal government itself gets the problem under control, Suffolk's
proposed law ''should be emulated throughout the country,'' said Representative
Peter T. King, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, who sees
immigration as a security issue as well as an economic one.

Mr. King, whose district includes part of Suffolk, spoke at a news conference
here with County Executive Steve Levy, who drafted the legislation. The
congressman said local actions would prod Washington, where his own immigration
bill has passed the House but not the Senate. That measure would authorize a
700-mile fence along the Mexican border; raise the crime of illegal immigration
to a felony; and criminalize giving assistance, including food and water, to
illegal immigrants.

Mr. Levy, a co-founder of a national coalition called Mayors and Executives for
Immigration Reform, said his goal was ''to help stem the flow of illegal
immigrants.'' The concept ''will spread like wildfire'' and ''have a major
impact from California to Maine,'' he predicted.

Similar efforts are already being made elsewhere. Hazleton, Pa., recently
adopted a measure denying business permits to companies that hire illegal
immigrants and fining landlords who rent to them. Civil rights groups are
challenging that law in court.

The Suffolk bill is the latest turn in a long-running and strident debate on
Long Island, where Mr. Levy has drawn both praise and criticism for his
crackdown on illegal immigration. Previously he proposed but backed away from a
plan to deputize county police officers to help enforce immigration laws. Last
year he was accused of failing to provide county aid to relocate tenants evicted
when the Town of Brookhaven raided homes overcrowded with dozens of immigrants.

The new legislation is sharply opposed by various religious and immigrant groups
and some labor unions. This week the Long Island Council of Churches weighed in
against it. But the proposal has overwhelming backing in the Suffolk County
Legislature, which is expected to adopt it next month.

Mr. Levy said the public also widely supported the proposed ban. The critics
''are trumped by a 10-to-1 margin from everyday residents who say, 'Thank
goodness, it's about time,' '' he said.

Mr. King agreed. ''The American people have spoken loudly and clearly that they
want to stop illegal immigration,'' he said.

The bill would apply to about 6,000 companies and agencies that have contracts
with Suffolk County that are paid entirely with county funds. The legislation
would require those employers to verify that their workers are in the country
legally. Employers could be fined and face up to six months in jail; repeated
violations could forfeit the employers' county contracts.

The aim, Mr. Levy said, is to protect honest contractors against unfair
competition from companies that exploit illegal workers by underpaying them.
''This bill will level the playing field,'' he said. ''If you want a contract
with Suffolk County, you have to play by the rules.''

Though some people have objected that the county legislation duplicates existing
federal law, Mr. Levy says the law is unenforced. So does Mr. King, who said
''there's a real failure on the part of the federal government.''

Skeptics say illegal aliens generally work in landscaping, restaurants and
private construction, rather than on county projects. ''I haven't seen any data
indicating this is a problem. I haven't seen any rampant abuse by employers. Why
do we need this law?'' said Vivian Viloria-Fisher. She is one of two Hispanic
members of the Suffolk Legislature, the only members who have announced they
will vote against the bill.

The bill's ''draconian measures'' could make employers afraid to hire people
with darker skins, ethnic names and foreign accents, Ms. Viloria-Fisher said.
She criticized the bill for not including an anti-discrimination clause like the
one in federal law.

The legislation is ''a symbolic gesture'' that ''fans the flames of hatred and
divisiveness,'' she said.

Carlos Canales, a labor organizer at the Workplace Project, an advocacy group
for immigrants in Hempstead, N.Y., called Mr. Levy ''an anti-immigrant
politician'' who is using the issue for political gain. ''All he has done is to
pick up a whip to whip the immigrant, to attack us,'' he said.

But Mr. Levy dismissed his critics as ''ridiculous'' and said that local
government must act because ''we have to bear the consequences'' of illegal
immigration in added costs to schools, hospitals and the criminal justice
system.

Mr. Levy, a Democrat, was flanked Wednesday by construction union leaders who
support his bill. Mr. King, who is a Republican, said the issue cuts across
party lines.

''I don't know anyone in the country who is more reflecting the view of the
American people than Steve Levy, and he does it under terrible abuse, attack and
distortion,'' Mr. King said. ''He is standing up, and I give him credit for
doing it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 19, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chicago Woman's Stand Stirs Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN RUETHLING

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 18


In a small storefront church in a Puerto Rican neighborhood on the city's West
Side, Elvira Arellano, a fugitive from the government, waits with her 7-year-old
son and prays.

Ms. Arellano, 31, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, defied an order to report to
the Department of Homeland Security on Tuesday to be deported and is instead
seeking sanctuary in her church.

Ms. Arellano is hoping Congress will act on a private relief bill that would
allow her and her son, Saul, a United States citizen who has attention-deficit
hyperactivity disorder, to stay in the country, where she says he can get better
medical treatment.

''I'm not a terrorist,'' said Ms. Arellano, who came to the United States
illegally nine years ago and is facing her second deportation. ''I'm only a
single mother with a son who's an American citizen.''

Ms. Arellano, president of an advocacy group called La Familia Latina Unida,
said she hoped her action would help to bring about legislation to protect
families that could be torn apart by deportation.

Immigrants' rights groups and critics of illegal immigration are closely
watching her case. Some supporters have likened her to Rosa Parks, while
detractors say Ms. Arellano broke the law and should face the consequences.

Critics say illegal immigrants have children with the hope that they will be
allowed to stay in the United States. ''She had an anchor baby, that's what she
did,'' said Mike McGarry, acting director of the Colorado Alliance for
Immigration Reform. ''If she was so concerned about her child, she'd take him
with her.''

Emma Lozano, director of Centro Sin Fronteras, an advocacy group in Chicago,
sees it differently. ''She became for all of us a symbol of resistance to the
unjust, broken laws of this country,'' Ms. Lozano said. ''This cross that she
bears for all the undocumented is because she's been chosen.''

Ms. Arellano has received supportive calls and e-mail from across the country
and beyond.

Dolores Huerta, 76, a laborers' advocate who founded the United Farm Workers
union with Cesar Chavez, flew to Chicago from California on Thursday to show her
support. ''Legislation must be proposed so these children don't stay without
their parents,'' she said.

Ms. Arellano was deported in 1997 after crossing from Mexico illegally. She
returned and had Saul, working in Washington State before moving to Chicago in
2000. She was arrested in 2002 at O'Hare International Airport, where she
cleaned planes, for using a false Social Security number.

She was granted a stay of deportation after a private relief bill was introduced
in the Senate in 2003 because of her son's medical needs. Last year, two similar
bills were introduced in the House, but no action has been taken.

At Adalberto United Methodist Church, where Ms. Arellano has been staying, the
windows are plastered with copies of letters of support from Representative Luis
V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, who introduced the House legislation, and
Mayor Richard M. Daley.

Ms. Arellano also posted a statement, saying if she is arrested on ''holy
ground,'' she ''will know that God wants me to be an example of the hatred and
hypocrisy of the current policy of this government.''

Such talk offends people like Rosanna Pulido, director of the Illinois Minuteman
Project. ''She's spewing all this anti-American stuff,'' Ms. Pulido said. ''The
thing that scares me the most is her defiance, it really does.''

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said it has the authority to
arrest anyone in the country in violation of immigration law. But an immigration
official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because policy prohibits
discussing agency plans, said Friday that the authorities had other priorities
and did not plan an arrest at the church.

The church's pastor, the Rev. Walter Coleman, said helping Ms. Arellano was part
of his calling. ''There's a tradition in this country as well as around the
world that governments respect the dignity and the faith of the church and don't
trample on that,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''I'm much more afraid of God than I am of
Homeland Security.''

Ira Mehlman, media director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
said the law holds parents responsible for their actions regardless of their
children's situation. ''However sympathetic her child may be, you can't allow
someone to hide behind their children,'' Mr. Mehlman said.

Jaime P. Martinez, national treasurer of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, an advocacy group in Washington, said Ms. Arellano's case was
mobilizing the movement as the government seems to be cracking down.

''I have never seen these type of deportations in my life,'' said Mr. Martinez,
50, who visited Ms. Arellano on Thursday. ''I believe it's an agenda that they
have to turn away the progress that was being made.''

But Carlina Tapia-Ruano, an immigration lawyer in Chicago, said she doubted that
Ms. Arellano's actions would change anyone's mind.

''My concern is that when we have individuals who so publicly voice their
disregard of our laws,'' Ms. Tapia-Ruano said, ''I believe that that gives
greater ammunition for those who are on the extremes.''

But Ms. Arellano is confident. ''I didn't allow them to deport me, and the
community is supporting me,'' she said. ''I'm not afraid of anything because I'm
in the house of God.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ms. Arellano, an illegal immigrant, with her son, Saul, a
citizen.
 Elvira Arellano, center, greeting Luz Vega-Marquis before a news conference
yesterday at Adalberto United Methodist Church in Chicago. (Photographs by Sally
Ryan for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Border Crossings Dip, And Official Cites Security

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 969 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced on Wednesday that tough
border security measures championed by the Bush administration had significantly
reduced the number of illegal immigrants entering from Mexico for the first time
in several years.

Mr. Chertoff pointed to recent apprehension figures to bolster his assertion,
saying that the number of Mexicans captured in June and July had dipped to the
lowest level for that two-month period since the fiscal year 2002. The number of
non-Mexican immigrants apprehended during June and July, he said, dropped to the
lowest level for that period since the fiscal year 2004.

Mr. Chertoff attributed the decline to President Bush's decision to deploy
National Guard troops on the Mexican border and to an expansion in the number of
beds in detention centers, which has in recent weeks allowed immigration
officials for the first time to detain nearly all illegal immigrants from
countries other than Mexico until they can be deported. Illegal immigrants from
Mexico are typically returned soon after capture.

Those efforts, he said, have discouraged illegal immigrants from trying to enter
the country.

''The message, I think, is that what we have done is beginning to work,'' Mr.
Chertoff said at a news conference. ''Although we're not ready to declare
victory -- we've got a lot more work to do -- it is encouraging and it's
something that ought to inspire us to continue to push forward on all of these
different fronts.''

Critics of the administration's immigration policy challenged Mr. Chertoff's
statements, saying the decline in apprehensions was a poor measure of
determining whether immigrants were entering the United States. Illegal
immigrants, they note, may simply be evading detection by avoiding heavily
patrolled areas.

They also noted that Mr. Chertoff's announcement came as Republican politicians
were gearing up for Congressional elections in November. Many conservative
voters have been demanding tougher border security. And Mr. Bush, who has been
pressing for legislation to legalize illegal immigrants, has been sharply
criticized by Republicans who argue that he has failed to do enough to secure
the border.

Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington research group, characterized Mr. Chertoff's announcement as an
effort, in part, to rally support for Mr. Bush and for Republican Congressional
candidates by promoting the government's border security efforts.

''What does it mean to have fewer apprehensions?'' asked Mr. Camarota, who
favors a tougher crackdown on illegal immigration. ''We just don't know. The
really important thing is how many get through, and nobody knows that.''

''I think this should be interpreted as positive baby steps,'' Mr. Camarota said
of the Chertoff announcement. ''It's a modest increase in enforcement so the
president can get his legalization plan for illegals. That's what he wants. And
this provides political cover.''

Mr. Chertoff plans to continue to carry his message to Texas on Thursday, where
he will tour the Mexican border with two Republican lawmakers, Senator Kay
Bailey Hutchison of Texas and Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, who have
proposed legislation that would require the president to certify that the border
was secure before allowing a temporary guest worker plan.

Mr. Chertoff will visit a detention center and address the governors of American
and Mexican border states. Two governors, Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a
Republican, and Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat, urged the federal
government on Wednesday to improve border security.

They called for a cross-border task force to step up law enforcement and push
for stiffer penalties for building tunnels that funnel people and drugs between
the countries.

At the news conference, Mr. Chertoff asked Congress to pass a bill to create a
temporary worker program that would provide a legal mechanism for foreigners to
work in the United States and ease the flow of illegal immigrants.

He said a comprehensive approach to immigration, recognizing the economic
motivations driving immigrants to enter the United States illegally, would be
the most successful. Officials argue that a temporary worker program would slow
the flow of illegal immigrants -- more than 50,000 were caught in July -- by
providing foreigners with a legal way to get jobs here.

''Let's register them; let's track them,'' Mr. Chertoff said of the immigrants.
''Let's collect taxes from them, and let's just be sure that we know who they
are because they have secure identification.''

The possibility that such legislation will be passed before the fall elections,
however, seems increasingly remote.

In May, the Senate passed legislation that would tighten border security, create
a guest worker program and ultimately grant citizenship to most illegal
immigrants after they pay fines and back taxes and enroll in English classes.
The president supports this approach.

But House Republicans, who passed a bill in December that focused solely on
toughening border security and immigration enforcement, decided to hold hearings
to rally support for their approach before working with the Senate on a
compromise.

Several hearings are being held in districts where Republican lawmakers are
engaged in competitive races for the House, and some lawmakers and advocates of
immigrants fear that immigration has become little more than a weapon in the
battle over fiercely contested House and Senate seats.

Cecilia Munoz, a vice president of the National Council of La Raza, an immigrant
advocacy group, said, ''The question is whether the desire to effectively reform
immigration laws is greater than the desire to use this issue as a political
football.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stealth Students Test Tolerance of the Affluent

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER.

E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: PELHAM


SUBURBAN school systems also have a problem with illegal immigrants, only theirs
are pint-size and most are American citizens.

Take Pelham in Westchester and Greenwich in Connecticut.

Pelham has been trying to ferret out students who live in Mount Vernon, New
Rochelle or the Bronx but are registering in Pelham's schools by claiming a
local address. Who can blame them? Just as Mexicans sneak into California
because that's where the better jobs are, students sneak into Pelham because
that's where many of the better schools are.

But Pelham taxpayers don't want to foot the bill, so the school system spent
$50,000 last year to keep illegals out. It even hired its own version of a
border patrol officer -- a private eye who tracks down alien students and does
the shoe-leather sleuthing of confirming whether students live where their
leases and utility bills say they do. In the past year, according to Dr. Charles
Wilson, the superintendent, Pelham expelled half the 60 students it
investigated.

''I feel badly when kids get thrown out,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''But we have a
fiduciary duty to our community.''

In Greenwich, students from bordering communities like Port Chester, N.Y., and
Stamford, Conn., keep striving to land seats in Greenwich classrooms. Greenwich,
one of America's wealthiest towns, has not yet surrounded itself with a
chain-link fence and National Guard troops. But it too has its own Sam Spade, a
former Greenwich police officer who might otherwise be expected to snoop around
motels but is paid $15,000 to check out tips of juvenile border crossings.

Tattletale parents will report that they've spied a student crossing the state
line on the Mill Street bridge from Port Chester or spotted another student
being dropped off by a car with New York license plates. The gumshoe, camera in
hand, might shadow the third grader to his home.

In both towns, most suspicious cases actually don't arise from stealth
crossings, but from the turmoil of 21st-century life. Parents divorce,
executives get posted overseas, children are left with their grandparents.
''Johnny's getting lost in a big urban school, so we're going to have him move
in with Aunt Susie, who lives in Pelham,'' said Dr. Wilson, offering a made-up
illustration.

Why do Pelham's and other top-rated school systems work so hard at stopping
intruders? Put simply, state and local laws require students to attend schools
in their localities, and when students roam, taxpayers in the receiving school
systems pay the freight. Some might say that such policies seem outdated in an
era when the Bush administration is promoting school choice through No Child
Left Behind and when more than a dozen states require districts to open spare
seats to outsiders.

The undocumented students, after all, are not trying to steal computers. How
smart of them that they're picking affluent places like Pelham and Greenwich,
where schools often spend more per student than nearby systems and where parents
think highly of their schools. What harm could there be, especially where the
median family income is $111,502, as it is in Pelham?

One could also argue that stealth students may not cost all that much. If
there's an extra classroom seat, a student's cost is negligible, officials
concede. Even if another teacher is required, a rookie's salary may not cost
that much more than the investigations themselves. Besides, those outsider
families are not getting something for nothing, because they are paying taxes to
Mount Vernon or New Rochelle.

Pelham, until it ran out of room, accepted outsiders, requiring them to pay a
tuition pegged to per-pupil cost. One outsider was the 13-year-old son of a
Mount Vernon school board member. The father said he did not want his son
attending school in Mount Vernon, where he would be one of a handful of white
students.

There is sometimes a whiff of exclusion about the issue. At the New Lebanon
School in Greenwich's Byram neighborhood, 40 percent of the students are
Hispanic, and it is not too farfetched to think that some parents might feel
that Hispanic students sneaking over from Port Chester might upset a fragile
ethnic balance.

Whatever the arguments, officials like Dr. Wilson say they have no choice. They
hear regularly from taxpayers outraged at students getting free rides at their
expense.

''They refer to the people as thieves, and they want assurance that we'll demand
restitution,'' Dr. Wilson said.

And good arguments can be made on their side. If there was no enforcement,
imagine how many more students would try to sneak into Pelham.

One way to resolve the differences is to think of the rules governing
out-of-district pupils in the same way as marijuana laws. There should be a law
to keep marijuana under control, but police don't arrest all the smokers they
see because the prisons couldn't hold them.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Here Illegally, Guatemalans Are Prime Targets of Crime

BYLINE: By RIKI ALTMAN and TERRY AGUAYO

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1005 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Aug. 21


It took Esteban Velasquez a year to save enough money to buy a gold chain he had
always wanted. But last summer, as Mr. Velasquez, an illegal immigrant from
Guatemala, walked to a convenience store with a friend, a man punched him in the
face and ran off with the $400 piece of jewelry.

Robberies of illegal immigrants have become a serious problem here in recent
years, and the victims, mostly from Guatemala, often avoid reporting the crimes,
fearing deportation.

''I was afraid,'' said Mr. Velasquez, 25, a landscaper who arrived here six
years ago.

He reported the crime but later tried to hide from the authorities to avoid
appearing in court. ''But then I thought, whether I'm documented or not, I still
have my rights,'' he said.

With such crimes on the rise -- they are common enough to have a chilling street
name, ''Guat-bashing'' -- the Guatemalan-Maya Center in Lake Worth, Fla., and
the Guatemalan Consulate in Miami, along with local law enforcement agencies,
religious groups and banks, are working to help illegal immigrants from
Guatemala protect themselves.

Predators know that Guatemalans often carry cash in their shoes or underwear
because they do not trust banks, police officials said, and that if they are in
the United States illegally, they often lack the documentation needed to open
accounts. They are frequently attacked on Friday nights, the police said, after
they have cashed their paychecks.

''They're being preyed upon because they're easy victims,'' said Capt. Mary
Olsen of the West Palm Beach Police Department. ''They don't fight back. They're
very modest people, and they're afraid of the police.''

In February, the department assigned Freddy Naranjo, a police officer from
Ecuador, as a liaison between the police and the immigrant community. He has
become a familiar face in neighborhoods with high rates of crimes against
illegal immigrants.

''The hardest part was trying to work with their trust,'' Mr. Naranjo said.
''They didn't trust the Police Department. The major thing is to come out and
report these crimes, not hold back.''

Another law enforcement official said that it was the responsibility of the
federal government, not the local police, to round up illegal immigrants, and
that local officials would report them only if they were charged with a crime.

Between January and early August, Captain Olsen recorded 15 arrests involving
robberies of Guatemalans in West Palm Beach. Fernando Alvarez, a community
relations supervisor for the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office, estimated that
more than 50 robberies of Guatemalans had been reported in unincorporated parts
of the county this year.

The figures probably do not reflect the actual number of attacks, law
enforcement officials said, since few illegal immigrants report the crimes.

Some victims have lost more than money in the attacks. In February, two men shot
and killed Osmar Bernardo, 26, who was walking home from a convenience store in
West Palm Beach. In December 2005, Eben Roblero, 21, was gunned down while
repairing his car in an alley behind an apartment complex. Both of the victims
were Guatemalans.

Even law enforcement officials have been accused of victimizing immigrants. In
recent years, a West Palm Beach police officer and a county sheriff's officer
were arrested on charges of stealing money from immigrant farmworkers.

Immigrants from other Latin American and Caribbean countries, including
Honduras, Nicaragua, Haiti, El Salvador and Mexico, are also frequent targets in
Palm Beach and neighboring counties.

Rosa Bardales, an illegal immigrant from Honduras, hesitated last year before
reporting a break-in at the two-bedroom duplex she shares with her husband, baby
daughter and two other people.

''I thought I could be deported and separated from my daughter,'' Ms. Bardales
said. ''I couldn't begin to imagine what that would be like. But I left it to
God.''

Ms. Bardales, who makes $180 a week working on a construction cleanup crew, was
robbed of $300 in the break-in.

According to Census Bureau figures from 2005, Palm Beach County's population of
1.2 million people includes 18,002 Guatemalans, 37,377 Mexicans, 7,745
Hondurans, 2,386 Nicaraguans and 3,013 Salvadorans. Many are migrant
farmworkers.

Benito Gaspar, a supervisor for the Guatemalan-Maya Center, said the actual
immigrant population was probably three to four times as large as that because
the census figures did not include many of the illegal immigrants.

Mr. Alvarez said the sheriff's office had organized forums with other
organizations in West Palm Beach and Lake Worth where Guatemalans could register
for identification cards and passports from the Guatemalan Consulate. The
program started in 1998 but has gained momentum recently, he said.

To get an ID card from the consulate, immigrants must present a birth
certificate or a proof-of-residency card from Guatemala, said Beatriz Illescas,
the country's consul general in Miami. The cards make it easier for illegal
immigrants to get jobs, rent apartments and open bank accounts.

Diane Wagner, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, said that in 2004 her company
began accepting Guatemalan passports and ID cards issued by the consulate as
forms of identification needed to open a savings or checking account.

And like the police in West Palm Beach, the county sheriff's office is
increasing its presence in immigrant neighborhoods, giving lectures, attending
church and even hanging out in convenience stores and Laundromats to spread the
word that the police can be trusted.

''We want them to have a better place to stay,'' Mr. Alvarez said. ''We're not
immigration.''

Outside his uncle's modest rented home in West Palm Beach, Mr. Velasquez said he
avoided going outside and remained stunned that someone would grab one of his
few valuable possessions.

''We come here to work and we work very hard for little money,'' he said.
''That's why I felt so sad when I lost my chain. Who knows how long it will take
me to save for another one?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Esteban Velasquez says a man punched him and stole his gold
chain.
 Rosa Bardales says she hesitated to report a break-in at her duplex. ''I
thought I could be deported and separated from my daughter,'' she said.
(Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stealth Students Test Tolerance of the Affluent

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER.

E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: GREENWICH


SAD to say, but suburban schools also have a problem with illegal immigrants,
only theirs are pint-size and most are American citizens.

Take Greenwich. Students from bordering communities like Port Chester, N.Y., and
Stamford, Conn., keep striving to land seats in Greenwich classrooms. Who can
blame them? Just as Mexicans sneak into California because that's where the
better jobs are, students sneak into Greenwich because that's where the better
schools are.

Greenwich, one of America's wealthiest towns, has not yet surrounded itself with
a chain-link fence and National Guard troops. But it has its own version of a
border patrol. A private eye, the kind who might be expected to snoop around
motels, has been hired to check out tips of juvenile border crossings.
Tattletale parents will report that they've spied a student crossing the Mill
Street bridge from Port Chester or spotted another being dropped off by a car
with New York license plates. The gumshoe, camera in hand, might shadow the
third grader to his home.

The school district would not identify its Sam Spade, except to say he's a
former Greenwich police officer and that he is paid $15,000 a year. He also does
the shoe-leather sleuthing of confirming whether students live where their
leases and utility bills say they do. In the 2004-5 school year, Greenwich
investigated 62 cases and found 20 intruders. Dr. John Curtin, assistant
superintendent, told of one student whose address was a golf course and who,
upon inquiry, turned out to be the child of a maintenance worker legitimately
housed on the greens.

Most suspicious cases don't arise from border crossings, but from the turmoil of
21st-century life. Parents divorce, executives get posted overseas. That's one
reason why Greenwich is thinking of going high-tech with software, already used
by West Hartford, Conn., schools, that crosschecks people who file
change-of-address forms with the post office against the district's database.

Why does Greenwich work so hard at stopping illegals? Put simply, state and
local laws require students to attend schools where they live. Pelham, N.Y.,
bordered by the Bronx and Mount Vernon, takes similar steps, budgeting $50,000
to track down alien students. In the past year, according to Dr. Charles Wilson,
the superintendent, it expelled half the 60 students it investigated.

Some might say that such policies seem outdated in an era when the Bush
administration is promoting school choice through No Child Left Behind and when
more than a dozen states require districts to open spare seats to outsiders.

The undocumented students, after all, are not trying to steal computers. How
smart of them that they're picking places like Greenwich, where schools spend
$14,000 per student and where 87 percent of parents give the schools an A or B
rating. What harm could there be, especially where the median family income is
$180,000?

One could argue that stealth students may not cost all that much. If there's an
extra classroom seat, a student's cost is negligible, officials concede. Even if
another teacher is required, a rookie's salary may not cost that much more than
the investigations themselves. Besides, those outsider families are not getting
something for nothing, because they are paying taxes to Port Chester or
Stamford.

There is sometimes a whiff of exclusion about the issue. At the New Lebanon
School in Greenwich's Byram neighborhood, 40 percent of the students are
Hispanic, and it is not too farfetched to think that some parents might feel
that Hispanic students sneaking over from Port Chester might upset a fragile
ethnic balance.

Whatever the arguments, officials like Dr. Wilson and Dr. Curtin claim they have
no choice. They hear regularly from taxpayers outraged at students getting free
rides at their expense.

''They refer to the people as thieves, and they want assurance that we'll demand
restitution,'' Dr. Wilson said.

And good arguments can be made on their side. If there was no enforcement,
imagine how many more students would try to sneak into Greenwich.

One way to resolve the differences is to think of the rules governing
out-of-district pupils in the same way as marijuana laws. There should be a law
to keep marijuana under control, but police don't arrest all the smokers they
see because the prisons couldn't hold them.

That may explain why Dr. Curtin tries to keep a light touch as he runs his
border patrol.

''I try to stay conscious of the fact that students are not responsible for
their parents' decisions, and our business is doing what's best for the kid, and
I keep that in mind adjudicating different cases,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Hilary Clark)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 4, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some ID Theft Is Not for Profit, But to Get a Job

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words


Camber Lybbert thought it was a mistake when her bank told her that her
daughter's Social Security number was on its files for two credit cards and two
auto loans, with an outstanding balance of more than $25,000. Her daughter is 3
years old.

For Ms. Lybbert and her husband, Tyson, the call was the beginning of a
five-month scramble trying to clear up their daughter's credit history. As it
turned out, an illegal immigrant named Jose Tinoco was using their daughter's
stolen Social Security number, not in pursuit of a financial crime, but to get a
job.

''From what I've picked up, he wasn't using it maliciously,'' said Ms. Lybbert,
who lives in Draper, Utah. ''He was using it to have a job, to get a car,
provide for his family. My husband's like, 'Don't you feel bad, you've ruined
this guy's life?' But at the same time, he's ruined the innocence of her Social
Security number because when she goes to apply for loans, she's going to have
this history.''

Though most people think of identity theft as a financial crime, one of the most
common forms involves illegal immigrants using fraudulent Social Security
numbers to conduct their daily lives. With tacit acceptance from some employers
and poor coordination among government agencies, this practice provides the
backbone of some low-wage businesses and a boon to the Social Security trust
fund. In the 1990's, such mismatches accounted for around $20 billion in Social
Security taxes paid.

''It's clear that it is a different intent or purpose than trying to get
someone's MasterCard and charge it up, knowing they're going to get the bill,''
said Richard Hamp, an assistant attorney general in Utah. ''But it has some
similarities. It goes on the other person's credit record. Illegals are filing
for bankruptcy, using someone else's number. I had one 78-year-old with three
defaults on houses she never owned.''

The Federal Trade Commission, which estimates that 10 million Americans have
their identities stolen each year, does not distinguish between people who steal
Social Security numbers so they can work and those who are out to steal money.
Illegal immigrants make up nearly one of every 20 workers in America, according
to estimates by the Pew Hispanic Center, and most are working under fraudulent
Social Security numbers, which can be bought in any immigrant community or in
Mexico.

In Caldwell, Idaho, a woman named Maria is just such a worker.

Maria, 51, came from Mexico City illegally six years ago and bought a
counterfeit green card and Social Security card through a friend for $180. She
earns $6.50 an hour, and like most of the seven million working illegal
immigrants in the United States, she pays income tax and Social Security tax.
She agreed to be interviewed on the condition that her last name not be used.

''We know we'll never get it back,'' Maria said of the Social Security payments.
''It's unfortunate, but it's a given.''

Like most victims of identity theft, the Lybberts did not lose any money in the
long run, but Ms. Lybbert estimates that for four or five months she spent 30
hours or more a week making telephone calls, feeling passed from one agency or
voice-mail system to another: the Social Security Administration, the state
attorney general, the three bureaus that issue credit ratings and police
departments in two cities.

''Everyone I talked to handed me off to someone else, saying that's not our
department, call this number,'' she said. ''I was being led in a circle.''

The Social Security Administration each year receives eight million to nine
million earnings reports from the Internal Revenue Service filed under names
that do not match the Social Security numbers. Some are from workers whose
employers botched their personnel forms or from women who recently changed their
names after marriage. Others are from people using a Social Security number that
is not their own.

''It's basically a subsidy from migrant workers to the aggregate of American
taxpayers,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a professor of sociology at Princeton who
studies Mexican migration.

While no one knows how many of these mismatches are illegal immigrants, a
Government Accountability Office study found that employers with the most
mismatches were concentrated in industries that hire a lot of illegal
immigrants, including agriculture, construction and food services.

''Right now, employers are not motivated to care if their workers give them
false Social Security numbers,'' said Barbara D. Bovbjerg, the office's director
of education, work force and income security issues. ''The I.R.S. has made
exactly zero penalties for reporting mismatches.''

The Social Security Administration is legally banned from sharing information
with immigration or law enforcement agencies, or from telling the rightful
owners of Social Security numbers that someone else is working under their
number, said Mark Hinkle, an agency spokesman.

The rightful owner of a stolen number does not get the benefits accrued under
its false use.

Ms. Bovbjerg's office and others have called for better cooperation among the
Social Security Administration, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department
of Homeland Security to prosecute workers who use false Social Security numbers
and the companies that hire them.

''We've had this ridiculous situation where, theoretically, this information
could be shared and we could identify these people and repair the situation,''
said Marti Dinerstein, a fellow at the Center for Immigration Studies, a
nonprofit organization that supports tighter restrictions on immigration.
''Falsely using a Social Security number is a felony. Our own federal agencies
are working against those laws. The I.R.S. says privacy laws prevent them from
sharing information. So we know who the guilty employers are. The I.R.S. knows
who the guilty employees are. And nothing's being done about it.''

In 2000, using data from the Social Security Administration, the Utah attorney
general's office found that the Social Security numbers of 132,000 people in the
state were being used by other people, far more than the state could prosecute.

This use caused problems even when the person using the number led a financially
responsible life, said Mr. Hamp, the assistant attorney general. ''I've had
families denied public assistance for their children or disability payments,''
he said, ''because records show somebody is working in their Social Security
number.''

Scott Smith of Ogden, Utah, discovered that someone was using his daughter
Bailey's Social Security number when he applied for public health insurance for
her. Mr. Smith, who owns four shredders, is by his own description ''real
paranoid'' about identity theft. ''We even take the shreddings and put them in
different garbage cans,'' he said.

Like Ms. Lybbert, he has mixed feelings about what happened next.

''All that was happening was that the illegal alien who had gotten the card had
gotten a job at a Sizzler steakhouse in Provo and was paying her bills and doing
a good job,'' he said. ''My opinion was, Hey, we've got someone hard-working
who's come from Mexico, who just wants to get a leg up -- give her Bailey's
Social Security number and issue us a new one. Let her stay in the country. But
they arrested her. I actually feel bad about her being deported.''

In immigrant communities, most counterfeiters invent Social Security numbers at
random, choosing only the first three digits to signal the card's state of
origin, prosecutors and investigators say.

When the numbers belong to children, the problems can start when they turn 18,
said Jay Foley, a founder and director of the Identity Theft Resource Center in
San Diego, a nonprofit organization that helps victims and proposes legislation.
''Now the child goes for student loans or jobs, and the companies say, 'You've
got a problem of bad credit. We aren't going to touch you.' ''

Most affected, Mr. Foley said, are foster children who are suddenly independent
at 18.

His organization has advocated that the Social Security Administration maintain
a data file of children's Social Security numbers and birth dates that credit
bureaus can check before issuing credit. ''They can check the list and say, 'Mr.
Businessman, why are you starting a credit line for a 3-year-old?' ''

Marco, 25, a restaurant worker in New York City, bought his Social Security card
for $40 on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens. Now he helps other new arrivals find
false identification and restaurant work. He says his employers usually know
that his card is fake and use that to their advantage. ''It's easier for them to
fire you when business is slow,'' said Marco, who did not want his last name
revealed.

As Marco pays income and Social Security taxes, he hopes to gain amnesty someday
and get credit for his contributions to the retirement fund, which is possible
but difficult under current law. But most in his situation do not think about
getting the money back, said Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for
Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San Diego. Most
retire to their home countries, where the cost of living is lower and many own
property, he said.

For Mr. Smith and his daughter in Utah, the crime was almost victimless. He
spent a day photocopying documents for the credit bureaus but did not lose any
money or run into threats to his daughter's credit.

But now that her number is out there, he said, there is no way to tell how many
times it has been sold, or when someone will use it next.

''So before I say I'm not upset about it, I don't know the full story,'' he
said. ''Other people could be racking up credit cards. The only recourse we have
is to go to the credit agencies and check every several months. It's a lot of
paperwork to do to have them say, 'Nope, no record.' ''

Stolen Lives

  Articles in this series are examining the causes and the impact of identify
theft. Previous articles are available at nytimes.com/idtheft.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: STOLEN LIVES: The Crucial Number

GRAPHIC: Photo: Camber Lybbert, with her daughter, Tyler, and son, Tanner, spent
an estimated 30 hours a week for five months cleaning up Tyler's credit history
after the 3-year-old's Social Security number was stolen. (Photo by Jim
Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A13)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Bellwether District, G.O.P. Runs on Immigration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

DATELINE: AURORA, Colo.


It was not by chance that Republicans brought their summer tour of hearings on
illegal immigration to this growing community just outside Denver.

Not only is Aurora bearing the costs of schooling and providing other services
for a significant population of illegal immigrants, it is in the heart of a
swing district and so is central to the intense battle for control of the House
of Representatives.

And while Congress is unlikely to enact major immigration legislation before
November, inaction does not make the issue any less potent in campaigning. In
fact, many Republicans, on the defensive here and around the country over the
war in Iraq, say they are finding that a hard-line immigration stance resonates
not just with conservatives, who have been disheartened on other fronts this
year, but also with a wide swath of voters in districts where control of the
House could be decided.

''Immigration is an issue that is really popping, '' said Dan Allen, a
Republican strategist. ''It is an issue that independents are paying attention
to as well. It gets us talking about security and law and order.''

Leading Republicans, leery of a compromise on immigration, are encouraging their
candidates to keep the focus on border control, as in legislation passed by the
House, rather than accept a broader bill that would also clear a path for many
illegal immigrants to gain legal status. The latter approach, approved by the
Senate with overwhelming Democratic support and backed by the White House, makes
illegal immigration one of the issues on which Republicans face a tough choice
of standing by President Bush or taking their own path.

''The American people want a good illegal-immigration-reform bill,'' said
Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House majority leader, ''not a
watered-down, pro-amnesty bill.''

Here in the Seventh District, the Republican push brought a Senate subcommittee
hearing the other day to explore the costs of illegal immigration. The
taxpayer-financed, ostensibly nonpartisan meeting took on the air of political
theater.

''They are here in this district with this topic attempting to drum up support
in a closely contested Congressional race,'' fumed Lisa Duran, director of an
immigrant rights group.

If that was the tactic, it may have worked. The angry confrontation thrust the
session into the headlines, reminding residents that the issue remained a
leading one in the House race between Rick O'Donnell, the Republican nominee,
and Ed Perlmutter, the Democrat, who are running to fill a seat being vacated by
Representative Bob Beauprez, a Republican seeking the governorship.

The issue remains on voters' minds ''because people are trying to keep it on
their minds,'' said Mr. Perlmutter, who accused Republicans of staging the
hearing for political gain.

Mr. Perlmutter, a former state legislator, is trying to navigate tough political
terrain by coming down hard for border enforcement while leaving the door open
for illegal immigrants to seek citizenship eventually. His opponent, a former
state higher education official, says such a position will not sell in Denver
suburbs characterized by unease that the nation has inadequately policed its
borders.

''I know the voters in my district are adamantly opposed to anything that smacks
of amnesty,'' Mr. O'Donnell said.

Republicans went into this year determined to keep the midterm elections from
becoming a referendum on national issues and Mr. Bush, insisting that they would
run on local concerns instead. But in this district, as in most others with
tightly contested races around the country, the campaign is turning on the
overarching national issues.

On immigration, many Republicans, like Mr. O'Donnell, have put distance between
themselves and the Bush administration, emphasizing stronger border security and
ignoring or rejecting the president's support for the broader legislation.

Similarly, on Iraq, Mr. O'Donnell is trying to find a middle ground that, though
basically supportive of Mr. Bush, allows the candidate to be critical of the
war's management. Like the president, Mr. O'Donnell says that American troops
should not be withdrawn until Iraq is stabilized and that setting a deadline for
a pullout could lead to disaster. Yet he is trying to separate himself from the
administration's handling of the war, saying that ''we may need new leadership
at the Pentagon.''

Mr. Perlmutter has tried to put his Republican opponent on the defensive over a
third issue, embryonic stem cell research. He made it the subject of his first
television commercial, pointing to the potential benefits for a daughter of his
who has epilepsy. ''It is personal to me,'' he said.

Until recently, Mr. O'Donnell sided with Mr. Bush in opposing expanded federal
financing of such research. Now he says the effort should move forward, given a
scientific advance, reported last month, that may allow stem cells to be
obtained from embryos without destroying them. He rejects Mr. Perlmutter's
assertion of a flip-flop on the research, which both men say is popular with
voters. ''I didn't move,'' he said, ''the research did.''

But here as elsewhere, Democrats too are still trying to calibrate their
positions on the big issues, a reflection of what the two parties agree is a
fluid political situation. Even as they try to tap into the antiwar sentiment in
their liberal base, many Democrats in swing districts, like Mr. Perlmutter, are
articulating positions on Iraq that they hope will insulate them from the ''cut
and run'' charges being leveled by Republicans. So Mr. Perlmutter paints his
opponent as an adherent of what he portrays as Mr. Bush's policy: ''stay the
course until we run aground.''

Yet he does not endorse a quick exit, calling instead for the beginning of a
phaseout of the troops, tied to a multinational reconstruction effort, with
American forces out completely by the spring of 2008.

''We will have been in Iraq for five years by that time,'' he said.

Certainly the topics dominating the campaign landscape have proved challenging.
''The war and the issue of immigration are sufficiently complicated that both
parties are having a hard time getting a real clear, laserlike fix on the whole
thing,'' said John Straayer, a political science professor at Colorado State
University.

Just a few weeks ago politicians and analysts suspected that immigration had
lost its political punch in Colorado, after the legislature enacted a tough
immigration overhaul including tighter identification rules for those seeking
state government services.

But the issue refuses to die. Mr. O'Donnell said it was the subject most
frequently raised with him by residents. At the hearing here the other day,
presided over by Senator Wayne Allard, a Colorado Republican, more than 200
people showed up even though it had promised to be a fairly dry look at the
fiscal effects of illegal immigration.

On the street outside, the emotions surrounding the debate were on vivid
display. Advocates on both sides chanted slogans, sought to outshout each other
and displayed signs like ''No Human Being Is Illegal'' and ''Stop the
Invasion.''

Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican elected eight years ago, testified on illegal
immigration's costs to the state, saying the influx was not a driving issue when
he first took office but had since risen to the top of Colorado's concerns.
''The state did take some important steps,'' Mr. Owens said of the recently
enacted immigration measure, ''because of weaknessesin federal law. But there is
a lot more that needs to be done.''

In an interview, Mr. O'Donnell accused his party's leader, Mr. Bush, of being
soft on illegal immigration. ''I don't know why the administration hasn't
enforced the laws,'' he said, adding that his objective was border security.

Mr. Perlmutter said he shared that goal. But he said the government also had to
deal with the millions of illegal residents already in the United States,
enabling some to ''earn your citizenship if you are learning English, paying
taxes, haven't committed a crime and have a job,'' as the Senate bill provides.
He blames Republicans for allowing the problem to fester.

Hoping to throw Mr. O'Donnell off stride, the Perlmutter campaign also
resurrected an opinion article he wrote in 2004 suggesting that male high school
seniors be required to perform six months of community service, with the option
of assisting in border security. Mr. Perlmutter equated that plan to a draft;
Mr. O'Donnell said he had simply been endorsing a call for community service
that many civic leaders have backed.

As they fine-tune their messages, the two men agree on at least one thing: this
evenly split district will be a bellwether in November.

''The issues that end up driving this campaign,'' Mr. O'Donnell told a Rotary
Club luncheon in nearby Commerce City, ''are going to set the tone for this
country.''

Continental Divide

  This is the second article in an occasional series looking at how the 2006
campaign plays out in Colorado's Seventh Congressional District, which is evenly
balanced among Democrats, Republicans and independents. Future articles will
look at how this race is affected by President Bush and will assess what
candidates and voters are saying in the homestretch to Election Day.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: CAMPAIGN 2006: The Continental Divide

GRAPHIC: Map of Colorado highlighting the Seventh District: The Seventh
District, now held by Republicans, is central to the battle for control of the
House. (pg. A17)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Washington: More Immigrants Die Crossing Border

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 94 words


The number of illegal immigrants who died crossing into the United States from
Mexico more than doubled from 1995 to 2005, according to the Government
Accountability Office, the nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress. Most of
the deaths occurred from heat exposure in the Arizona desert, as more immigrants
avoided urban areas like San Diego and El Paso that have tough border-security
efforts. The federal auditors also found there was little evidence that the
Border Patrol's efforts to reduce the number of deaths had been successful.
RACHEL L. SWARNS (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 7, 2006 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Disruption of a Speech Causes a Furor at Columbia

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON and DAMIEN CAVE; Matthew Sweeney contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words


When protesters stormed a Columbia University stage on Wednesday evening,
shutting down a speech by the head of a fiercely anti-immigration group, they
not only stopped the program, but also hurtled the university back into the
debate over free speech on campus.

The fracas, which came just weeks after the president of Iran was invited to
speak at Columbia and then told not to come, was captured live by Columbia's
student-run television station, CTV, as well as by two commercial stations. It
was shown repeatedly on television in New York yesterday and was widely
available on the Internet.

Yesterday Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg chastised Columbia for the disruption. ''I
think it's an outrage that somebody that was invited to speak didn't get a
chance to speak,'' he said in response to a question on his weekly radio
program.

''Bollinger's just got to get his hands around this,'' Mr. Bloomberg added,
referring to Columbia's president, Lee C. Bollinger. ''There are too many
incidents at the same school where people get censored,'' he said, using
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran as an example.

This time the speaker, invited by a campus Republican group, was Jim Gilchrist,
the head of the Minuteman Project, which assembled hundreds of volunteers last
year, some armed, to patrol the Arizona-Mexico border for illegal immigrants.

Mr. Bollinger, a legal scholar whose specialty is free speech and the First
Amendment, condemned the disruption of Mr. Gilchrist's speech.

''Students and faculty have rights to invite speakers to the campus,'' he said
yesterday in an interview. ''Others have rights to hear them. Those who wish to
protest have rights to do so. No one, however, shall have the right or the power
to use the cover of protest to silence speakers.''

He added, ''There is a vast difference between reasonable protest that allows a
speaker to continue, and protest that makes it impossible for speech to
continue.''

Monique Dols, a senior in history at Columbia's School of General Studies, said
she had mounted the stage in protest and unfurled a banner but that at such
events in the past the speakers had kept going.

''We have always been escorted off the stage and the event continues,'' she
said, adding that this time the protesters were attacked.

''We were punched and kicked'' by supporters of the speaker, she said.
''Unfortunately, the story being circulated is that we initiated the violence.''

Ms. Dols said a large protest outside the building was initiated by the
university's Chicano Caucus and supported by other groups, including Columbia's
chapter of the International Socialist Organization, of which she is a member.
She said the decision to march on stage was not organized but a ''coming
together'' of some people ''disgusted by the Minuteman's message.''While college
campuses have long been battlegrounds for freedom of speech issues, Columbia
seems to attract more attention than most when such problems arise, perhaps
because of its location in New York and its history of political protest.

Mr. Bollinger said he did not believe that Columbia was unusual in the number of
such disputes. Officials are studying whether disciplinary steps are warranted,
he said.

On campus yesterday, many people condemned the disruption of Mr. Gilchrist's
lecture.

''I think it was really wrong not to let him speak,'' said Anusha Sriram, 18, a
freshman studying political science and human rights, who moved to the United
States from Mumbai. ''He wasn't being violent. He was giving his view
peacefully.''

She said that by keeping Mr. Gilchrist from speaking, the protesters had
unwittingly turned the tables of the discussion against themselves.

''That just undermined the entire protest,'' she said. ''Now everyone looks at
the protest in a bad light instead of him in a bad light.''

The program was sponsored by the Columbia University College Republicans, a
five-year-old group that says on its Web site that it has 600 members. Its
president, Chris Kulawik, a junior, is described on the site as a ''staunch
conservative'' who ''endeavors to attain the cherished title of 'Most Despised
Person on Campus.' ''

He said he was ''very much surprised'' by Wednesday's events.

''We always understood that this is a very left-wing campus,'' Mr. Kulawik said.
''But to see your peers resort to physical violence because they disagree with
you is very frightening.''

He said he had been working to ensure there is more campus security next week
when his group has three more potentially controversial speakers, including
Walid Shoebat, a former P.L.O. member, and Hilmar von Campe, an author who
fought for Germany during World War II.

Asked how he chooses speakers, and whether he tries to stir up controversy, he
said he invites people requested by his group's members.

Wei Wei Hsing, 20, is a junior at Columbia and general manager of the Columbia
Political Union, which has co-sponsored events with the College Republicans,
including a lecture by John Ashcroft last year. She criticized both Mr.
Gilchrist's supporters and the protesters for yelling and shouting before the
lecture started, setting a tone of intolerance.

But she said the controversy simply reflected the political mood. ''The
polarization of the country in general is reflected in the microcosm of
Columbia,'' she said. ''And because people here happen to read the news more,
and talk about politics, it's expressed more outwardly.''

The Minuteman Project, which calls itself a ''citizens' vigilance operation,''
featured photos, video and news accounts of the Columbia events yesterday on its
Web site and said they amounted to ''a riot.''

''At Columbia University free speech took quite the hit,'' it said. ''At an
event hosted by the college Republicans at Columbia we were reminded that the
left advocates free speech only for those who regurgitate the same tripe that
they spew.''

Columbia officials said yesterday that while there had been pushing and shoving
on stage, as protesters surrounded Mr. Gilchrist and others tried to defend him,
there were no reports of injuries.

Mr. Bollinger said he believed that the importance of free speech must be
reinforced repeatedly. He said he hoped to do ''a number of things'' over the
next several weeks to accomplish that on campus.

Natalie Yammine, a freshman at Columbia who shot the video of the tumult for
CTV, said CTV was putting together a package on the story to be aired on Sunday
night.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about a protest at Columbia University over a
speech by the head of the Minuteman Project, a civilian border patrol group,
gave an imprecise description of the group's stand on immigration. While it
opposes illegal immigration, the group does support immigration in general.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Images from a video show protesters storming a stage at
Columbia University on Wednesday evening during a speech by Jim Gilchrist,
leader of the controversial Minuteman Project. The group uses volunteers, some
armed, to patrol the border with Mexico in an effort to stop illegal
immigration. (Photos by Natalie Yammine/Columbia University Television News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

High Fence And Big Gate

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 767 words


America today is struggling to find the right balance of policies on
immigration. Personally, I favor a very high fence, with a very big gate.

So far, neither President Bush's proposal to allow the nation's millions of
illegal immigrants to stay temporarily on work visas, nor the most hard-line
G.O.P. counterproposal, which focuses only on border security, leaves me
satisfied. We need a better blend of the two -- a blend that will keep America
the world's greatest magnet for immigrants. Why?

First, the world is flattening, and as a result more and more people around the
globe have access to the same technological tools for innovation and
entrepreneurship. In such a world, where innovation is concentrated really
matters -- because that is where the best management, research and sales jobs
will be located for any company.

Because of its deeply rooted culture of immigration, the U.S. has a huge
advantage in such a world. If we are smart, we can still cream off the most
first-round intellectual draft choices from around the world -- more than any
other country -- and bring that talent to our shores to start companies and work
in others.

We have gone from the Iron Age to the Industrial Age to the Information Age to
the Talent Age, and countries that make it easy to draw in human talent will
have a distinct advantage today.

Anybody out there try to become a Swiss citizen lately? It's not so easy -- and
it's also not an accident that Switzerland's most famous product is the cuckoo
clock.

Second, a steady flow of immigrants keeps a society flexible and competitive. In
this flat world, more people than ever can leverage technology. So whatever can
be done -- whatever today's technologies enable and empower -- will be done by
someone, somewhere. The only question is whether it will be done by you or to
you. The more open your society is to new people and ideas, the more things will
be done by you, not to you.

We shouldn't just welcome educated immigrants, but laborers as well -- not only
because we need manual laborers, but also because they bring an important
energy. As the Indian-American entrepreneur Vivek Paul likes to say: ''The very
act of leaving behind your own society is an intense motivator.  Whether you are
a doctor or a gardener, you are intensely motivated to succeed.''

We need that steady energy flow, especially with India and China exploding onto
the world stage with huge pent-up aspirations. If you want to know what China
and India feel like today, just take out a Champagne bottle, shake it for 10
minutes and then take off the cork. Don't get in the way of that cork.
Immigrants keep that kind of energy flowing in America's veins.

An amnesty for the 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants already here is
hardly ideal. It would reward illegal behavior. But since we are not going to
deport them all, some version of the Arlen Specter bill seems like the right way
to go: Illegal immigrants who were in the U.S. before Jan. 7, 2004, could apply
for three-year guest-worker visas, each renewable one time if the applicant paid
a $1,000 fine and passed a background check. After six years, if the immigrant
learned sufficient English and paid another $1,000 fine and back taxes, he or
she could start to apply for citizenship.

But because I strongly favor immigration, I also favor a high fence -- if not a
physical one, then at least a tamperproof national ID card for every American,
without which you could not get a legal job or access to government services. We
will not sustain a majority in favor of flexible immigration if we can't control
our borders.

Good fences make good immigration policy. Fences make people more secure and
able to think through this issue more calmly. Porous borders empower only
anti-immigrant demagogues, like the shameful CNN, which dumbs down the whole
debate.

We also need to control the influx of immigrants because one byproduct of the
flattening of the world is that many decent low-end factory jobs previously open
to someone with only a high school degree or less are now disappearing. As Dan
Pink notes in his book, ''A Whole New Mind,'' many of those jobs can now be done
faster by a computer or cheaper by a Chinese worker. Therefore, we can't just
endlessly expand our pool of manual labor without condemning people at that low
end, particularly black men, to a future of declining wages or unemployment.
That will have terrible social consequences.

For all these reasons, I weigh each immigration proposal with two questions:
''Does it offer a real fence? Does it offer a real gate?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 870 words



Senate Leaders Reach Deal to Offer Citizenship to Most Illegal Immigrants
Senate leaders reached agreement on a broad compromise that would put the vast
majority of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship.
The plan would also create a temporary worker program that would allow 325,000
foreigners to fill jobs in the United States each year. If passed, it would be
the most sweeping immigration accord in two decades. But the plan quickly ran
into resistance from conservative Republicans. [Page A1.]



U.S. to Name Outside Experts to Monitor Heart Units
The Food and Drug Administration is planning to strengthen how it monitors heart
devices like defibrillators by appointing outside medical experts to help it
review the safety of units on the market, an agency official said. [C1.]

Next Task for Massachusetts: Workable Health Plan
The Massachusetts plan to achieve nearly universal health coverage now faces the
challenge of creating a viable market in affordable insurance policies, so that
businesses and individuals will buy the coverage mandated by the state's
legislature. [C1.]

Reality Series to Focus on Aspiring Filmmakers
Television's most successful reality-show producer, Mark Burnett, left, will
work with the film director Steven Spielberg on a Fox series devoted to finding
the ''American Idol'' of unknown movie directors. The series, called ''On the
Lot,'' will combine elements of several previous reality series to form an
elimination contest for aspiring filmmakers. Mr. Burnett said the show would try
to take advantage of the enormous number of self-made video and film shorts that
have become ubiquitous on the Internet. [C6.]

CBS Looks to Couric to Turn Viewing Tide in Key Cities
CBS is betting millions of dollars that Katie Couric's move to its evening news
program from the ''Today'' show will have a major impact on the
television-watching habits in ''battleground'' television markets like Grand
Rapids, Mich. In the cities and suburbs of western Michigan, more than half of
the televisions that are turned on at 6:30 p.m. are tuned in to one of the three
network newscasts, as compared with about a third nationally, according to
Nielsen Media Research. [C1.]

NBC named Meredith Vieira to the co-host position of the ''Today'' show, to
succeed Katie Couric. [C4.]

Morgan Stanley Hires Prominent Deal Maker
Morgan Stanley, which has suffered a series of executive defections, announced
one of its biggest coups, hiring Robert A. Kindler, who was the global head of
mergers and acquisitions at J.P. Morgan Chase. Mr. Kindler will become vice
chairman of investment banking at Morgan Stanley. [C6.]

Ford President to Retire; Chief Executive to Take Post
Ford Motor said that its president, James Padilla, would retire July 1. His
duties will be assumed by Ford's chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., who is
forming a new executive operating committee to help run the company. [C6.]

European Bank Catches Markets Off Guard on Rates
In a surprise to financial markets, the European Central Bank doused widespread
expectations that it would raise interest rates next month as part of its
gradual tightening of monetary policy. [C6.]

Gold and Silver Hit Highs Not Seen Since 1980's
Gold touched $600 an ounce for the first time in 25 years and silver hit a
22-year high as investors continued to pour money into precious metals. [C7.]

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 23.05 points, to 11,216.50. The Standard &
Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.52 points, to 1,309.04, and the Nasdaq composite
index rose 1.42 points, to 2,361.17, its best close since Feb. 16, 2001. [C7.]

News Corporation Settles Suit on Antitakeover Plan
The News Corporation settled a shareholder lawsuit two weeks before the opening
of a trial in a lawsuit that accused the company of defrauding investors by
denying them a vote on whether to extend an antitakeover resolution adopted in
2004. [C6.]

Former Merck Chief Takes Stand in Vioxx Case
The punitive damages phase of the fourth Vioxx case to reach a jury began with
testimony from Raymond V. Gilmartin, the former chief executive of Merck, who
faced the plaintiff lawyer, W. Mark Lanier. Mr. Gilmartin took the stand the day
after a New Jersey jury awarded $4.5 million to John McDarby, a 77-year-old who
had a heart attack in 2004 after taking Vioxx for four years. Mr. Gilmartin
seemed relatively unfazed after a day of difficult questions from Mr. Lanier,
who in August won an even larger verdict against Merck in the first Vioxx
personal injury case. [C3.]

Pfizer to Acquire a Biotechnology Company
Pfizer will acquire Rinat Neuroscience, a privately held company developing
drugs for pain, Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. [C6.]

Armenia Settles Gas Conflict With Russia
In a settlement of the latest natural gas dispute in the former Soviet Union,
Armenia will receive natural gas supplies from Russia at prices well below
European averages until 2009. In exchange, it will surrender a small but crucial
section of gas pipeline to Russia. [C6.]

In Russia, Warning of a Bubble That Might Burst
Russia's top market regulator is warning that the surging Russian stock market
is showing some ''alarming signs'' of become too expensive. [C5.]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows Merck share prices since February, 2006.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Standing Behind His Workers

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; 3 Perspectives On Immigration, From
the Inside: The Employer; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1078 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15


Three voices. Three people, each with a small piece of the swirling story of
illegal immigration in the United States, cannot answer the tangled questions
that have washed over politics recently with a sudden, jolting wave.

Do 11 million illegal immigrants pose an economic question for the nation, or a
political one? Is the debate about the jobs that American-born resident will not
do, or the jobs being taken from them? Is it about enforcing rules, or
acknowledging rights?

Miguel A. Carvajal parks cars for a living in a garage in Manhattan and hopes
for something better. Myles Gladstone employs immigrants and wants the best for
them -- and for his construction company near Washington, D.C. Waldo Benavidez
sits in a low-income neighborhood in Denver and watches with anxiety and anger
at the fate of the American poor who he thinks are being hurt by immigrants. He
wants the border closed.

Each comes from a different place and sees a different picture. They disagree
not just about what should happen in Congress and in the state capitals that are
wrestling with immigration legislation, but even about where to start.

Myles Gladstone is a burly, silver-haired businessman who spends most days in a
hard hat, striding through crushed gravel at construction sites, greeting
workers and fielding complaints.

But on Monday, Mr. Gladstone, 59, who typically spends his free time collecting
antique jukeboxes for his home in Potomac, an affluent Maryland suburb, was
caught up in the political ferment sweeping the nation as he joined the throngs
of immigrants demonstrating here. He said he could not afford to simply stand
by.

As the vice president for human resources of Miller & Long, a regional concrete
construction company, Mr. Gladstone is responsible for a mainly immigrant work
force. Nearly 90 percent of the company's 3,000 employees are immigrants, mostly
from El Salvador, he said. And the tough border security bill passed by the
House in December, which would make illegal immigration a felony, could disrupt
his company's operations if it becomes law.

So when he heard about the demonstration to protest the legislation, Mr.
Gladstone and other company officials decided to offer employees a day of unpaid
leave to attend the rally and push for a bill that would legalize illegal
immigrants. To show additional support, he attended the protest himself.

''We are indebted to the work ethic they bring us,'' Mr. Gladstone said.
''Without them, Miller & Long would not be as successful, and I would not be as
successful.''

Mr. Gladstone is one of many ordinary people who have found their daily lives
touched by the fervent immigration debate. On Monday, operations at many of
Miller & Long's projects around the region were virtually shut down because
about 1,500 workers decided to attend the demonstration.

Mr. Gladstone is more keenly attuned than ever to the legislative machinations
in Congress and the impact on his workers, who pepper him with questions about
the future.

''They ask me, 'What's going to happen to us? What's going to happen to our
families?' '' he said. ''My answer is, 'I don't know.' ''

Mr. Gladstone, a genial manager who wears a BlackBerry on his hip, knows which
employees have new babies, which have sick relatives and which prefer to discuss
their problems by telephone instead of face to face. But like many businessmen
with largely immigrant work forces, he said he did not know whether his
employees were illegal immigrants or whether they had relatives who were here
illegally.

Mr. Gladstone said the workers all claimed to be here legally and had all
presented documentation to prove they were authorized to work in the United
States. But he also knows there is a growing industry in counterfeit documents,
and he and other employers cannot help but view the tough immigration measures
under consideration in Congress with unease.

Such concerns have become more pressing as the broad demographic shifts of the
past 20 years have trickled down to the workplace.

In 1947, when Miller & Long was formed, its employees were overwhelmingly white
or black and born in the United States, according to Nicholas G. Paleologos, the
company's president.

By 1981, the work force was 50 percent Hispanic. That was the year Mr.
Paleologos decided to hire Mr. Gladstone, then a Spanish teacher at a private
school, as a part-time translator.

''We could see the way our industry was headed,'' Mr. Paleologos said.

As the numbers of immigrant workers surged, Mr. Gladstone climbed through the
company ranks, serving as part supervisor and part social worker. Since a
powerful earthquake hit El Salvador in 2001, Mr. Gladstone has traveled to the
country 21 times to distribute food and clothing to the families of employees
and to oversee the construction of a health clinic.

Mr. Gladstone was in El Salvador nearly three weeks ago when the Senate
Judiciary Committee voted to legalize the roughly 11 million people believed to
be living illegally in this country. ''People down there thought a law had
passed,'' Mr. Gladstone said. ''I told them, 'Let's not celebrate yet.' ''

In fact, the Senate failed to pass any immigration legislation amid partisan
bickering over parliamentary procedures. And as Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Paleologos
stood this week in the shadow of a condominium project in Arlington, Va., they
said their concerns about the future had persuaded them to allow their workers
to protest.

''They're strong in their numbers, and they certainly demonstrated that in their
effort to tell our political leaders that there has got to be a rational
approach to immigration reform,'' Mr. Paleologos said.

Pablo Catin, a 48-year-old carpenter from Nicaragua, said he and other workers
were relieved that Miller & Long had given them permission to protest,
particularly since some workers at other companies had been fired after
participating in the demonstrations.

''We didn't have to worry about that,'' Mr. Catin said. ''They're supporting
us.''

Mr. Gladstone, whose grandparents immigrated from Poland, said he kept silent at
the rally as his workers sang, chanted and waved flags. But he said he had been
moved by the sight of tens of thousands of immigrants yearning to become
Americans.

''Standing there with everybody saying the Pledge of Allegiance, that was one of
those tingly moments,'' he said. ''Many people didn't understand all the words,
but they understood the sentiment.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: MYLES GLADSTONE -- Vice President at a construction company,
right, with Nicholas G. Paleologos (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Arizona: Veto Of Immigration Bill

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 69 words


Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, vetoed a bill that would have made the
presence of illegal immigrants a crime in the state, citing opposition from
police agencies that want immigration arrests to remain the responsibility of
the federal government. The proposal, passed by the Republican-majority
Legislature, would have expanded the state's trespassing law to let the local
authorities arrest illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Immigration Remarks, Bush Hints He Favors Senate Plan

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Rachel L. Swarns contributed reporting from
Washington for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: IRVINE, Calif., April 24


President Bush reinserted himself into the divisive debate over immigration on
Monday, speaking favorably of a stalled Senate compromise that would put a vast
majority of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship.

In remarks to about 300 Orange County business leaders here, Mr. Bush said the
bipartisan Senate compromise, which fell apart this month as Republicans and
Democrats maneuvered for political advantage, was ''an interesting approach.''

His words fell short of endorsing the plan, but they signaled that he preferred
the Senate approach over a House bill that focuses on border security and would
turn illegal immigrants into felons. The president's position put him to the
left of many conservative Republicans who say the Senate plan's citizenship
provisions amount to amnesty.

''I know this is an emotional debate, and I can understand it's emotional, but
one thing we cannot lose sight of is that we're talking about human beings,
decent human beings,'' Mr. Bush said.

He added: ''Massive deportation of the people here is unrealistic. It's just not
going to work. You can hear people out there hollering it's going to work. It's
not going to work.''

Mr. Bush's remarks seemed intended to encourage the Senate, which returned to
work on Monday after a two-week recess, to try again to pass legislation in
coming months and then to work out its differences with the House.

While Mr. Bush spoke positively about the approach being debated in the Senate,
he left himself enough room to try to work out a deal between the Senate and
House Republicans, who have strongly opposed any bill that would provide legal
status to workers who have entered the United States illegally.

Under the Senate plan, illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States
for five years or more would eventually be granted citizenship if they remained
employed, had background checks, paid fines and back taxes, and learned English.

Illegal immigrants who have lived here two to five years would have to travel to
a United States border crossing and apply for a temporary work visa, but they
would be eligible for permanent residency and citizenship over time. Illegal
immigrants who have been here less than two years would have to leave the
country, though they could apply to be in a temporary worker program.

''I thought the Senate had an interesting approach by saying that if you've been
here for five years or less, you're treated one way, and five years or more,
you're treated another,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It's just an interesting concept that
people need to think through about what to do with people that have been here
for quite a period of time.''

Mr. Bush said that although an illegal immigrant ''should never be granted
automatic citizenship,'' there should be an opportunity for citizenship over
time.

''What I do think makes sense is that a person ought to be allowed to get in
line,'' Mr. Bush said. ''In other words, pay a penalty for being here illegally,
commit him or herself to learn English, which is part of the American system,
and get in the back of the line.''

Mr. Bush said he would leave it to Congress to determine how long that line
would be for each nationality. ''If Congress wants a shorter line for a
particular nationality, they increase the number of green cards,'' Mr. Bush
said. ''If they want a longer line, they shrink the number of green cards per
nationality.''

He also promoted his idea of a guest worker program, which would grant temporary
visas to foreigners inside and outside the United States who want to work in the
country for a certain period. The White House has suggested that it would limit
to six years the time that workers in the program could remain in the United
States, but on Monday, Mr. Bush said he would leave the specific time period up
to Capitol Hill.

''The definition of 'temporary' will be decided in the halls of Congress,'' he
said.

Mr. Bush spoke in a border state that is a central front in the immigration
debate. He addressed his remarks to the business owners in the audience, an
important Republican constituency, and told them that it was unfair that they
should be penalized for hiring workers who might have false documentation.

''They show up and they put a Social Security card out there and it looks
real,'' Mr. Bush said. ''You know, our small-business owners are not document
checkers. These are people trying to get ahead, and it's impossible to really
effect the enforcement of our laws if people are able to use forged documents.''

Later in the day, Mr. Bush traveled to Las Vegas for an event that raised
$400,000 for Representative Jon Porter, Republican of Nevada, before returning
to Washington.

Scores of people protested on Capital Hill on Monday, demonstrating against
provisions in House and Senate immigration bills that call for expanded
detention and deportation of illegal immigrants. The demonstrators, who included
people with relatives who had been deported, said that deportations often
devastated the families left behind.

''We're concerned because a lot of these issues have not been debated or
discussed,'' said Will Coley, a spokesman for Homies Unidos, a nonprofit group
that works with former gang members in Los Angeles. ''No one is raising the
issue about how deportation is affecting families.''

183 Immigrants Arrested

  MIAMI, April 24 (AP) -- Federal immigration authorities arrested 183 fugitives
and other illegal immigrants in Florida alone last week, the state's largest
roundup in a single week, officials said Monday.

Of the 183 arrested, 130 were fugitives who had already been ordered deported by
an immigration judge. The remaining 53 were illegal immigrants who happened to
be present when the fugitives were arrested, said Michael Rozos, a Miami field
director for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

The authorities said the arrests included people from 26 countries who had been
convicted of sex offenses, cocaine trafficking and other violations. Most will
eventually be deported.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Immigration protesters, above and top, gathered yesterday in
Washington. President Bush spoke on the issue in Southern California. (Photo by
Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Producing Smaller Numbers, But Laying Claim to Majority

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Reporting for this article was contributed by Gretchen
Ruethling from Chicago, Steve Friess from Las Vegas and Thayer Evans from
Houston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: OPPOSING
VOICES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, May 1


Around the edges of the immigration demonstrations that filled cities like this
one on Monday, there were some who went to disagree.

In Las Vegas, Jackie Pinjuv, 68, and another woman waded into the immigration
demonstration and offered their own sign: ''Illegals, Go Home. Your Rights Are
There.'' An angry crowd surrounded the women at one point with objections, but
Ms. Pinjuv said her views were unchanged.

''I believe that these people are hurting our country and they need to go
back,'' she said.

In Denver, a group gathered near the larger march to voice support for a
proposed constitutional amendment barring illegal immigrants in the state from
getting some social services.

And here, Rick Biesada, a founder of the Chicago Minuteman Project, which
opposes illegal immigration, said four supporters of his group's philosophy
tried to attend events but were turned away.

''We were telling our people that you should 'shop till you drop' today as a way
to counter this whole boycott thing,'' Mr. Biesada said. ''We have nothing
against immigration; it's illegal immigration that has to stop.''

Compared with the hundreds of thousands who marched urging Congress to consider
legal status for some of the 11 million illegal immigrants in this country, far
fewer went to speak for the other side.

But advocates for tighter border security and increased enforcement of
immigration laws said that their quieter voices were actually more
representative of the views of Americans as a whole.

''I think the majority of Americans are very, very upset,'' said Fred Elbel, the
co-chairman of Defend Colorado Now, an organization pressing for the amendment
to bar illegal immigrants from receiving some social services. ''The illegals
are organized by a massive, well-funded campaign with a tremendous amount of
organization out there. There's no equivalent organization to get Americans out
to protest and say: 'Enforce our laws.' ''

Around the country, conservative radio and television talk show hosts often
spoke of the demonstrations. Even their choices of words (''illegal alien'' and
''amnesty'') often clashed with those used by organizers at the demonstrations
(''immigrant'' and ''reform'').

In Cicero, Ill., Susan Masek said she drove past the protest in that suburb of
Chicago with a sign on her car window saying ''No Amnesty'' and ''Illegal is
Illegal.'' A group of demonstrators surrounded her car, Ms. Masek said, and a
few started jumping on its front end. After a tense confrontation, she said she
left at the request of the police.

''I was shaking like a devil, and I was upset,'' Ms. Masek said later. ''They
made me feel like, 'What are you doing here? You're causing trouble.' ''

Dave Gorak, the executive director of the Midwest Coalition to Reduce
Immigration, said the demonstrations did not represent another group of people
losing out to illegal immigrants: millions of ''underemployed Americans, who
would love to have a fulltime job.''

''What this is about is disrespect and contempt for the law,'' Mr. Gorak said.
''These people are laughing in the faces of everybody who came to this country
playing by the rules. They are laughing at everybody who has fought and died for
this country. For them to stand up and say, 'You owe us something,' is just
wrong.''

In Houston, Leslie Wetzel, a director of U.S. Border Watch, was one of two
anti-immigration protesters outside the office of Senator John Cornyn, a
Republican. She carried signs that said, ''Remember the Alamo'' and ''Come and
Take It.''

In response, Ms. Wetzel said, advocates for immigrants pushed bullhorns in her
face and tried otherwise to intimidate her.

''They should all be put on a bus and deported,'' she said. ''If you're illegal,
you're out of here. Period. It's not a racist thing. It's a question of law and
order. Either we're a nation of law, or we're going to be a nation of anarchy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Take to U.S. Streets in Show of Strength

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Reporting for this article was contributed by
Cindy Chang from Los Angeles, Steve Friess from Las Vegas, Carolyn Marshall from
Watsonville, Calif., and Gretchen Ruethling from Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE
OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 1


Hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their supporters skipped work, school
and shopping on Monday and marched in dozens of cities from coast to coast.

The demonstrations did not bring the nation to a halt as planned by some
organizers, though they did cause some disruptions and conveyed in peaceful but
sometimes boisterous ways the resolve of those who favor loosening the country's
laws on immigration.

Originally billed as a nationwide economic boycott under the banner ''Day
Without an Immigrant,'' the day evolved into a sweeping round of protests
intended to influence the debate in Congress over granting legal status to all
or most of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the country.

The protesters, a mix of illegal immigrants and legal residents and citizens,
were mostly Latino, but in contrast to similar demonstrations in the past two
months, large numbers of people of other ethnicities joined or endorsed many of
the events. In some cases, the rallies took on a broader tone of social action,
as gay rights advocates, opponents of the war in Iraq and others without a
direct stake in the immigration debate took to the streets.

''I think it's only fair that I speak up for those who can't speak for
themselves,'' said Aimee Hernandez, 28, one of an estimated 400,000 people who
turned out in Chicago, the site of one of the largest demonstrations. ''I think
we're just too many that you can't just send them back. How are you going to
ignore these people?''

But among those who favor stricter controls on illegal immigration, the protests
hardly impressed.

''When the rule of law is dictated by a mob of illegal aliens taking to the
streets, especially under a foreign flag, then that means the nation is not
governed by a rule of law -- it is a mobocracy,'' Jim Gilchrist, a founder of
the Minutemen Project, a volunteer group that patrols the United States-Mexico
border, said in an interview.

While the boycott, an idea born several months ago among a small group of
grass-roots immigration advocates here, may not have shut down the country, it
was strongly felt in a variety of places, particularly those with large Latino
populations.

Stores and restaurants in Los Angeles, Chicago and New York closed because
workers did not show up or as a display of solidarity with demonstrators. In Los
Angeles, the police estimated that more than half a million people attended two
demonstrations in and near downtown. School districts in several cities reported
a decline in attendance; at Benito Juarez High School in Pilsen, a predominantly
Latino neighborhood in Chicago, only 17 percent of the students showed up, even
though administrators and some protest organizers had urged students to stay in
school.

Lettuce, tomatoes and grapes went unpicked in fields in California and Arizona,
which contribute more than half the nation's produce, as scores of growers let
workers take the day off. Truckers who move 70 percent of the goods in ports in
Los Angeles and Long Beach, Calif., did not work.

Meatpacking companies, including Tyson Foods and Cargill, closed plants in the
Midwest and the West employing more than 20,000 people, while the flower and
produce markets in downtown Los Angeles stood largely and eerily empty.

Israel Banuelos, 23, and more than 50 of his colleagues skipped work, with the
grudging acceptance of his employer, an industrial paint plant in Hollister,
Calif.

''We were supposed to work,'' Mr. Banuelos said, ''but we wanted to close down
the company. Our boss didn't like it money-wise.''

The economic impact of the day's events was hard to gauge, though economists
expected a one-day stoppage to have little long-term effect. In large swaths of
the country, life went on with no noticeable difference. But protesters in
numerous cities, many clad in white and waving mostly American flags in response
to complaints that earlier rallies featured too many Latin American ones,
declared victory as chanting throngs shut down streets.

Most of the demonstrators' ire was directed at a bill passed by the House that
would increase security at the border while making it a felony for an illegal
immigrant to be in the country or to aid one. The marchers generally favored a
plan in the Senate, for which President Bush has shown signs of support, that
would include more protection at the border but offer many illegal workers a
path to citizenship.

Still, the divide among advocates over the value and effectiveness of a boycott
resulted in some cities, including Los Angeles and San Diego, playing host to
two sizable demonstrations, one organized by boycotters and the other by people
neutral or opposed to it.

That split played out across the country. While many business owners warned
employees about taking the day off, many others also sought to negotiate time
off or other ways to register workers' sentiments.

Las Vegas casinos reported few disruptions, partly because many of their owners
announced their support for workers at a news conference last week. On Monday,
more than 40 casinos set up tables in employee lunchrooms for workers to sign
pro-immigration petitions.

Leaders of Local 226 of the Culinary Workers Union also urged members to go to
work. The union is Las Vegas's largest hospitality union, representing 50,000
workers, of which 40 percent are Hispanic.

Smaller businesses in Las Vegas, where tens of thousands of demonstrators
gathered on the Strip, also took a hit. Javier Barajas said he closed his
family's four Mexican restaurants in Las Vegas because members of his staff
warned him they would not show up, costing him more than $60,000 in revenue.

''I cannot fire anybody over this, but I would have liked to see some other way
to express themselves,'' said Mr. Barajas, who was once an illegal immigrant
from central Mexico but became a United States citizen. ''It's the small
businesses that are hurt by this.''

For many immigrants, however, it was just another workday.

At a Home Depot in Hollywood, day laborers as always crowded parking lot
entrances, hoping for work. At a car wash in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los
Angeles, employees buzzed, with workers vacuuming, buffing and drying cars.
People lined up at markets, though some reported slower business.

''I was thinking about not buying things, but then I needed to buy stuff,'' said
Alex Sanchez, 28, a construction worker buying an avocado, chilies and beer.

The boycott grew from an idea hatched by a small band of grass-roots advocates
in Los Angeles, inspired by the farmworker movement of the 1960's led by Cesar
Chavez and Bert Corona. Through the Internet and mass media catering to
immigrants, they developed and tapped a network of union organizers, immigrant
rights groups and others to spread the word and plan events tied to the boycott,
timed to coincide with International Workers' Day.

The Los Angeles organizers said some 70 cities held boycott activities.

The day spawned all manner of supportive actions here. A department store chain
offered space for lawyers to give legal advice to immigrants; in Hollywood, the
comedian Paul Rodriguez appeared at the comedy club the Laugh Factory to promote
a daylong health care fair for immigrant workers.

In Chicago, there was solidarity in diversity, as Latinos were joined by
immigrants of Polish, Irish, Asian and African descent. Jerry Jablonski, 30,
said he had moved to Chicago from Poland six years ago, flying to Mexico and
then crossing the border. He now works a construction job.

''Poland is my old country,'' Mr. Jablonski said. ''This is my new country. I
can make everything happen here.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: CAUSE -- Hundreds of thousands of people marched in Chicago,
where demonstrators filled a downtown street. (Photo by Charles Rex
Arbogast/Associated Press)
EFFECT -- Some businesses in downtown Los Angeles closed in a show of support
for immigrant rights. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

 Truck drivers gathered yesterday near the Port of Los Angeles to show support
for immigrants' rights. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Sentencing In Smuggling Deaths

BYLINE: By STEVE BARNES (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 112 words


A woman who pleaded guilty to directing a smuggling operation in which 19
illegal immigrants died was sentenced to 17 years in prison on Monday. The
punishment for the woman, Karla Patricia Chavez Joya, 28, was less than the life
term prosecutors requested but greater than that recommended under federal
sentencing guidelines. The 19 people who died were among 74 illegal immigrants
abandoned in a locked tractor-trailer near Victoria in 2003. The authorities
said temperatures inside the vehicle exceeded 170 degrees. Thirteen other
defendants were charged in the case, including the driver, against whom the
government is seeking the death penalty.    STEVE BARNES (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

GROWING UNEASE FOR SOME BLACKS ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3


In their demonstrations across the country, some Hispanic immigrants have
compared the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s struggle to their own, singing
''We Shall Overcome'' and declaring a new civil rights movement to win
citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants.

Civil rights stalwarts like the Rev. Jesse Jackson; Representative John Lewis,
Democrat of Georgia; Julian Bond and the Rev. Joseph E. Lowery have hailed the
recent protests as the natural progression of their movement in the 1960's.

But despite some sympathy for the nation's illegal immigrants, many black
professionals, academics and blue-collar workers feel increasingly uneasy as
they watch Hispanics flex their political muscle while assuming the mantle of a
seminal black struggle for justice.

Some blacks bristle at the comparison between the civil rights movement and the
immigrant demonstrations, pointing out that black protesters in the 1960's were
American citizens and had endured centuries of enslavement, rapes, lynchings and
discrimination before they started marching.

Others worry about the plight of low-skilled black workers, who sometimes
compete with immigrants for entry-level jobs.

And some fear the unfinished business of the civil rights movement will fall to
the wayside as America turns its attention to a newly energized Hispanic
minority with growing political and economic clout.

''All of this has made me start thinking, 'What's going to happen to
African-Americans?' '' said Brendon L. Laster, 32, a black fund-raiser at Howard
University here, who has been watching the marches. ''What's going to happen to
our unfinished agenda?''

Mr. Laster is dapper and cosmopolitan, a part-time professor and Democratic
activist who drinks and dines with a wide circle of black, white and Hispanic
friends. He said he marveled at first as the images of cheering, flag-waving
immigrants flickered across his television screen. But as some demonstrators
proclaimed a new civil rights movement, he grew uncomfortable.

He says that immigrant protesters who claim the legacy of Dr. King and Rosa
Parks are going too far. And he has begun to worry about the impact that the
emerging immigrant activism will have on black Americans, many of whom still
face poverty, high rates of unemployment and discrimination in the workplace.

''I think what they were able to do, the level of organization they were able to
pull off, that was phenomenal,'' said Mr. Laster, who is also a part-time
sociology professor at a community college in Baltimore. ''But I do think their
struggle is, in fundamental ways, very different from ours. We didn't chose to
come here; we came here as slaves. And we were denied, even though we were legal
citizens, our basic rights.''

''There are a still lot of unresolved issues from the civil rights era,'' he
said. ''Perhaps we're going to be pushed to the back burner.''

This painful debate is bubbling up in church halls and classrooms, on call-in
radio programs and across dining room tables. Some blacks prefer to discuss the
issue privately for fear of alienating their Hispanic allies. But others are
publicly airing their misgivings, saying they are too worried to stay silent.

''We will have no power, no clout,'' warned Linda Carter-Lewis, 62, a human
resources manager and the branch president of the N.A.A.C.P. in Des Moines.
''That's where I see this immigrant movement going. Even though so many
thousands and thousands of them have no legal status and no right to vote right
now, that day is coming.''

Immigrant leaders defend their use of civil rights language, saying strong
parallels exist between the two struggles. And they argue that their movement
will ultimately become a powerful vehicle to fight for the rights of all
American workers, regardless of national origin.

''African-Americans during the civil rights movement were in search of the
American dream and that's what our movement is trying to achieve for our
community,'' said Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigration
Coalition, which organized the April 10 demonstration that drew tens of
thousands of people to Washington.

''We face the same issues even if we speak different languages,'' said Mr.
Contreras, who is from El Salvador and listens to Dr. King's speeches for
inspiration.

Mr. Jackson, who addressed the immigrant rally on Monday in New York, echoed
those views. He noted that Dr. King, at the end of his life, focused on
improving economic conditions for all Americans, regardless of race. And he said
the similarities between African-Americans and illegal immigrants were too
powerful to ignore.

''We too were denied citizenship,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''We too were undocumented
workers working without wages, without benefits, without the vote. ''We should
feel honored that other people are using tactics and strategies from our
struggle. We shouldn't say they're stealing from us. They're learning from us.''

Mr. Jackson said corporate employers were fueling the tensions between blacks
and immigrants by refusing to pay a living wage to all workers. John Campbell, a
black steel worker and labor activist from Iowa, agreed.

''This is a class issue,'' said Mr. Campbell, who has been disheartened by black
critics of the immigrant marches. ''We need to join forces. We can't improve our
lot in life as African-Americans by suppressing the rights of anyone else.''

But blacks and immigrants have long had a history of uneasy relations in the
United States.

W.E.B. DuBois, a founder of the N.A.A.C.P., and other prominent black leaders
worried that immigrants would displace blacks in the workplace. Ronald Walters,
director of the African-American Leadership Institute at the University of
Maryland, said blacks cheered when the government restricted Asian immigration
to the United States after World War I. And many Europeans who came to this
country discriminated against blacks.

Blacks and Hispanics have also been allies. In the 1960's, Dr. King and Cesar
Chavez, the Mexican-American farm labor leader, corresponded with each other.
And when Mr. Chavez was jailed, Dr. King's widow, Coretta Scott King, visited
him in jail, Mr. Walters said. In recent years, blacks and Hispanics have been
influential partners in the Democratic Party.

A recent poll conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center captured the ambivalence
among blacks over immigration. Nearly 80 percent said immigrants from Latin
American work very hard and have strong family values.

But nearly twice as many blacks as whites said that they or a family member had
lost a job, or not gotten a job, because an employer hired an immigrant worker.
Blacks were also more likely than whites to feel that immigrants take jobs away
from American citizens.

Mr. Walters said he understood those conflicting emotions, saying he feels torn
himself because of his concerns about the competition between immigrants and
low-skilled black men for jobs. In 2004, 72 percent of black male high school
dropouts in their 20's were jobless, compared with 34 percent of white and 19
percent of Hispanic dropouts.

''I applaud them moving out of the shadows and into the light because of the
human rights issues involved,'' Mr. Walters said of illegal immigrants. ''I've
given my entire life to issues of social justice as an activist and an academic.
In that sense, I'm with them.

''But they also represent a powerful ingredient to the perpetuation of our
struggle,'' he said. ''We have a problem where half of black males are
unemployed in several cities. I can't ignore that and simply be my old
progressive self and say it's not an issue. It is an issue.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Jesse Jackson on Monday at Union Square rally. (Photo
by Uli Seit for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Some blacks are uneasy about immigrants' taking on the mantle of the civil
rights era, but John R. Campbell Jr., left, says blacks and Hispanics should be
united. Ronald Walters, above, said earlier blacks had opposed immigration.
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Behind a Talk, Bush's History

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: THE
CONTEXT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 15


The headline news from President Bush's immigration speech on Monday was troops
to the border, but in substance and tone the address reflected the more subtle
approach of a man shaped by Texas border-state politics and longtime personal
views.

In an effort to placate conservatives, Mr. Bush talked tough about cracking down
on immigrants who slip across the United States' long border with Mexico.

But the real theme of his speech was that the nation can be, as he phrased it,
''a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time'' and that Congress
could find a middle ground between deporting illegal immigrants and granting
them immediate citizenship.

What was remarkable to people who knew Mr. Bush in Texas was how much he still
believes in the power of immigration to invigorate the nation.

''He's always had a more welcoming attitude,'' said Bruce Buchanan, a
presidential scholar at the University of Texas. ''He always spoke well of
Mexican nationals and regarded them as hard-working people. So his grace notes
on this subject are high.''

Mr. Bush had three political goals in making the speech: appealing to the
public's desire to see something done, mollifying an important part of his
Republican base and shaping a compromise between competing immigration bills in
the Senate and House. Republicans acknowledge that it will be difficult for Mr.
Bush to reach these goals with Democrats arrayed against him and with his own
party so split on the issue.

It is also unclear if Congress can even enact an immigration bill this year when
the Senate is pushing a temporary guest worker program and the House favors a
harsher, enforcement-only approach. So far Mr. Bush, who insists he is not
advocating amnesty, has spoken favorably of the Senate approach -- a position
consistent with his views in the past.

''He understands this community in the way you do when you live in a border
state,'' said Israel Hernandez, an assistant secretary at the Commerce
Department who traveled with Mr. Bush as a personal aide when he first ran for
governor. ''Philosophically, he understands why people want to come to the U.S.
And he doesn't consider them a threat.''

There were no major battles over immigration or immigration legislation when Mr.
Bush was governor, but he is remembered for saying emphatically that the
children of illegal immigrants had a right to go to Texas schools. His views
were in sharp contrast to those of another politician of the time, Pete Wilson,
who closely tied his successful 1994 race for California governor to Proposition
187, a ballot initiative that denied public services to illegal immigrants and
that passed overwhelmingly.

''There was never any effort to cut off benefits, and Bush basically bought into
the notion that they were going to be Texans,'' said Paul Burka, senior
executive editor of Texas Monthly, who closely followed Mr. Bush then. ''He
didn't believe in closing the borders.''

Mr. Bush first met Mexican immigrants at public school in Midland, Tex., where
Hispanics made up 25 percent of the population. Later, when he owned a small,
unsuccessful oil company, he employed Mexican immigrants in the fields. When he
was the managing partner of the Texas Rangers, he reveled in going into the
dugout and joking with the players, many of them Hispanic, in fractured
Spanglish.

''In every dimension of his career, whether it was politics or the private
sector or the sports world, he's been engaged with the Hispanic population,''
Mr. Hernandez said.

Mr. Bush was also living in a state that has stronger historical and cultural
ties to Mexico than any other.

''The cultures mingled much more freely here than in California,'' Mr. Burka
said. ''Here there was not nearly as much antipathy. There were always workers
coming over, and they were very essential.''

At the same time, Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's veteran political adviser, recognized
that there was potential in the Hispanic vote and that Republicans could appeal
to them on abortion, religion and family values.

''Karl has always been a strong believer that Hispanics were a natural
Republican constituency,'' Mr. Burka said. ''He once told me that 'we have about
15 years to put this together.' ''When Mr. Bush got to the White House,
immigration was going to be a signature issue, a key to his relationship with
President Vicente Fox of Mexico and essential in attracting Hispanic voters to a
Republican Party that Mr. Rove envisioned as dominant for decades to come.

The Sept. 11 attacks suspended the push on the issue until late in the first
term, but in a speech in January 2004 Mr. Bush threw himself into the subject
with personal passion.

''As a Texan, I have known many immigrant families, mainly from Mexico, and I
have seen what they add to our country,'' Mr. Bush told hundreds of wildly
cheering Hispanics at a gathering in the East Room of the White House. ''They
bring to America the values of faith in God, love of family, hard work and
self-reliance, the values that made us a great nation to begin with.''

Every generation of immigrants, he added, ''has reaffirmed the wisdom of
remaining open to the talents and dreams of the world.''

Mr. Bush's speech that day, more than 2,300 words, devoted only 200 of them to
border security. Even then, he mentioned only what he said the nation was doing
right -- employing more Border Patrol agents and improving technology -- and
made no urgent statement, as he did Monday night, that ''we do not yet have full
control of the border.''

In that same speech, Mr. Bush proposed a temporary guest worker program for the
nation's 11 million or so illegal immigrants, as well as for immigrants seeking
to enter the United States. The reaction was immediate and largely negative;
immigrants and many Democrats said the plan did not go far enough, and
conservatives said it amounted to amnesty.

Mr. Bush dropped the proposal as too risky for his 2004 re-election race, but he
campaigned heavily among Hispanic constituencies and attracted 40 percent of the
Hispanic vote.

With the election out of the way, Mr. Bush picked up the issue last October, but
by then he had changed his emphasis to border security to calm conservatives. On
Monday night, with his polls showing a drop in conservative support in part
because of his immigration proposals, he toughened his language even more.

Now immigration, as divisive as it is, remains as Mr. Bush's last major domestic
issue and a test of his remaining powers as president.

''He's putting capital behind it,'' said Mark McKinnon, the president's campaign
media consultant. ''It would be a lot easier just to let it go away.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TODAY IN BUSINESS

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words



BUSH IMMIGRATION PUSH -- President Bush pushed ahead with his effort to bring
Republicans in the House and Senate together on a plan to reduce illegal
immigration. But he ran into renewed resistance from conservatives who said they
were not swayed by the case he made to give many undocumented workers a chance
to become citizens. [Page A1.]



BERTELSMANN WEIGHS FUTURE -- Sometime next week, executives of Bertelsmann, a
trans-Atlantic media colossus and arguably Germany's most influential privately
owned enterprise, expect to receive a letter from their sole outside
shareholder, calling on them to take the company public. [C1.]

ENRON TRIAL -- In their closing arguments in the Enron trial, defense lawyers
ripped into the government's case, accusing prosecutors of pushing at all costs
to punish Enron's top two officers for the failure of the company that became
synonymous with corporate malfeasance in the late 1990's. [C1.]

IN THE HOT SEAT -- For years, the securities class-action law firm Milberg Weiss
Bershad & Schulman inspired fear and uncertainty in executive suites and
boardrooms. Now the firm faces the possibility of an indictment in connection
with a six-year investigation into whether it made illegal payments to clients.
[C1.]

HEWLETT PROFIT RISES 51% -- Hewlett-Packard said that strong sales of laptop
computers and printer supplies, along with cost-cutting, helped push its
second-quarter profit up 51 percent. The company also said its market share in
personal computers increased 1.4 percent. [C1.]

GAS PRICES DON'T DETER SHOPPERS -- Defying predictions that rising gasoline
prices would rein in consumer spending, the nation's two largest retailers,
Wal-Mart Stores and Home Depot, reported sharply higher first-quarter profit.
The chains account for more than 10 percent of United States retail sales. [C3.]


VERIZON DENIES IT GAVE RECORDS -- Verizon, the country's second-largest phone
company, said it had not provided local phone records to the National Security
Agency. A day earlier, BellSouth had issued a similar statement in response to a
report in USA Today. [A15.]

CABLEVISION CALLING PLAN -- Cablevision is expected to announce a new flat-rate
plan for international calls. [C3.]

WHOLESALE PRICE REPORT -- Two economic reports indicated that wholesale prices
remained tame and the housing market continued to cool. The government said that
the Producer Price Index rose 0.9 percent in April but that the core index,
which excludes food and energy, edged up 0.1 percent. [C3.]

OPEN-SOURCE JAVA -- The new chief executive of Sun Microsystems, Jonathan
Schwartz, below, said the company was working toward making its Java programming
language available free as open-source software, providing further evidence that
Sun's new management sees it as more of a services company than a network
computer maker. [C7.]

STOCKS EDGE LOWER -- Inflation fears pushed stocks modestly lower. The Dow Jones
industrial average lost 8.88 points, to 11,419.89. The Standard & Poor's
500-stock index dropped 2.42 points, to 1,292.08, and the Nasdaq fell 9.39
points, to 2,229.13. [C13.]

EUROPEAN UNION SAYS YES, BUT -- The European Commission gave a qualified yes to
Romania and Bulgaria joining the European Union on Jan. 1, but it delayed a
final decision until October to try to pressure them to make greater inroads in
fighting corruption and in judicial reforms. [A5.]

SMALL SCREEN THINKS BIG -- A major trend becoming evident this week, as
broadcasters present their 2006-7 schedules to agencies and advertisers, is the
increasing ''cinema-zation'' of prime-time network programs. Many new series are
seeking to emulate theatrical films. Stuart Elliott, Advertising. [C8.]

ECUADOR OIL TAKEOVER -- Ecuador began to take over operations of Occidental
Petroleum, the latest move in Latin America against foreign energy producers.
[C12.]

HYUNDAI CHAIRMAN CHARGED -- The chairman of Hyundai Motor of South Korea was
charged with embezzling more than $100 million and causing far larger financial
damage to companies under his control. [C12.]

F.D.A. REPORT FAULTS BAUSCH -- Bausch & Lomb failed to notify United States
regulators within 30 days about 35 serious bacterial infections reported in
Singapore in users of one of its contact lens solutions, the Food and Drug
Administration said. [C6.]

TIME EDITOR PROMOTED -- Jim Kelly, managing editor of Time magazine for more
than five years, was named to the newly created position of managing editor for
Time Inc. [C7.]

ONLINE

ONLINE: DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news
on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at
nytimes.com/dealbook.

WORKING IN THE PARK -- New York City officials have set a July deadline for a
city contractor to have a wireless network up and running in Central Park. An
update is at www.nytimes.com/technology.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

PRESIDENT ALVARO URIBE of Colombia said the government would sell the country's
largest state bank, Granbanco-Bancafe, with more than $3 billion in assets, in a
public offering. (REUTERS)

THE FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN, Ben S. Bernanke, said stiffer hedge fund
regulation could make financial markets less stable, as he backed the current
focus on ensuring that hedge fund trading partners manage their risks well. It
was his first comment on the subject since taking the post on Feb. 1. (REUTERS)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks Wal-Mart's share price for last week.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico to Protest U.S. Border Plan

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 18


Mexico will formally complain to the United States about plans to build security
fences and deploy National Guard troops on the border to curb illegal
immigration, Mexico's foreign minister, Luis Ernesto Derbez, said Thursday.

''There are 12 million Mexicans on the other side, 12 million people who live
every day in anguish about the need for a reform to let them live peacefully,''
Mr. Derbez said. He said Mexico would send a diplomatic note to the United
States about American plans for the border.

Such notes are often sent as a form of protest when nations are at odds with
each other.

Mexico wants the United States to make it easier for immigrants to attain legal
status, and supports a guest-worker program rather than a tightening of the
border.

The status of illegal immigrants in the United States is a major political issue
in Mexico. Opponents have criticized President Vicente Fox as not protesting
strenuously enough against American efforts to tighten the porous frontier.
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the leftist candidate in the presidential election,
which will be held in July, accused Mr. Fox on Wednesday of being ''a plaything,
a puppet of foreign governments.''

Shooting Closes Crossing

  SAN DIEGO, May 18 (AP) -- The authorities shut down a busy border crossing on
Thursday after American agents shot and killed the driver of a car headed for
Mexico.

The shooting occurred on southbound Interstate 5 about 50 feet north of the San
Ysidro Port of Entry, the world's busiest border crossing. The driver, who was
not immediately identified, was pronounced dead at the scene with multiple
wounds.

Customs and Border Protection officials were trying to stop a sport utility
vehicle that was under surveillance for suspected immigrant smuggling. When
agents approached the car, the driver began to drive off, said Lt. Kevin Rooney
of the San Diego police. Two agents then opened fire.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Securing The Border (Again)

BYLINE: By John Tierney

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 738 words


President Bush heads to New Mexico today to visit his new favorite school, the
Border Patrol Academy. He wants it to train thousands more federal agents, but
they'll make little difference unless Bush can teach Republicans the lesson
learned by agents like Buck Brandemuehl a half century ago -- the last time
anyone could seriously claim the border was under control.

In the 1950's, federal agents were initially overwhelmed by waves of Mexican
farmworkers illegally crossing the border. The number of immigrants apprehended
surpassed half a million in 1951 and was approaching 900,000 in 1953, a level
roughly comparable to the situation now.

Back then there were fewer than 2,000 federal agents patrolling the borders,
less than a fifth the size of today's force. But within two years, the flow of
illegal immigrants declined so drastically that the immigration service declared
in its 1955 annual report, ''The border has been secured.''

And it stayed that way the rest of the decade. The number of immigrants caught
kept dropping until it reached 45,000 in 1959 -- a decline of 95 percent in just
six years.

''We really had to scratch for illegals,'' recalls Brandemuehl, who worked along
the New Mexico border in the late 1950's. ''We'd do traffic checks and
freight-train checks, but we weren't apprehending many people. We'd go camp on
the border and look for tracks, but in 30 days you might apprehend only 15 or 20
people, and a lot of them weren't even farmworkers. They were criminals sneaking
back and forth to rob ranchers.''

What stopped the farmworkers from sneaking across? It wasn't simply the
get-tough measures that Republicans are calling for today. Although federal
agents did intensify their efforts, conducting sweeps of farms and ranches,
immigration officials realized that stricter enforcement wasn't enough.

Along with the crackdown, officials encouraged farmers and ranchers to legally
hire Mexican temporary workers called braceros. As new rules made it easier to
hire braceros, the number of these legal workers doubled to more than 400,000 at
the same time illegal immigration was plummeting.

''We wanted people to come in the front door, not the back door,'' Brandemuehl
says. The agents' job became simpler not only because there were fewer Mexicans
to catch but also because there was more help from American employers. Once
farmers and ranchers could legally get the workers they needed, they were more
willing to cooperate with agents tracking down illegal immigrants.

Unfortunately, though, Congress started shutting the front door. The bracero
program became controversial, partly because American labor unions objected to
the competition and partly because of concerns that Mexicans were being
exploited. Some of the complaints were legitimate, but Congress's response
didn't leave immigrants any better off.

They ended up with even fewer rights because they were working illegally after
the bracero program was restricted in 1960 and then eliminated four years later.
As the number of legal workers entering from Mexico dropped during the 1960's,
the number of illegal immigrants shot back up, and kept increasing after new
limits were placed on other visas available to Mexicans in 1968.

The border has been out of control ever since, even though the number of agents
has grown to 11,000. ''Tough enforcement alone can't work unless you allow more
people in legally,'' says Stuart Anderson of the National Foundation for
American Policy, who has studied the impact of the bracero program.

Today President Bush and the Senate are trying to apply that lesson by expanding
the number of legal immigrants and temporary workers. These visiting workers
would have more rights than braceros, which is why the reforms are supported by
the United Farm Workers and other unions.

But Republicans in the House are resisting. They say they won't expand legal
opportunities until the border is first secured -- which will never happen if
they have their way.

In 1958, a high-ranking immigration official named James Hennessy was quizzed by
a House committee about his agency's success in controlling the border. He said
it was due in large part to the increase in legal immigration. When he was asked
how his agents would control the border if the bracero program ended, he gave a
prescient reply that's more relevant than ever today:

''We can't do the impossible, Mr. Congressman.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (Nicholas Kristof)

                             June 17, 2006 Saturday

Liberals Sneaking Into Canada

BYLINE: NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 292 words



HIGHLIGHT: There&#8217;s a very funny essay poking fun of the immigration debate
that is making the rounds by email. I&#8217;m not sure who wrote it or whether
it was published anywhere, but it begins: The flood of American liberals
sneaking across the border into Canada has intensified in the past week,
sparking calls for increased patrols [&#8230;]


There's a very funny essay poking fun of the immigration debate that is making
the rounds by email. I'm not sure who wrote it or whether it was published
anywhere, but it begins:

The flood of American liberals sneaking across the border into Canada
has intensified in the past week, sparking calls for increased patrols to
stop the illegal immigration.  The actions of President Bush are prompting
the exodus among left-leaning citizens who fear they'll soon be required to
hunt, pray, and agree with Bill O'Reilly.

Canadian border farmers say it's not uncommon to see dozens of sociology
professors, animal-rights activists and Unitarians crossing their fields
at night.

"I went out to milk the cows the other day, and there was a Hollywood
producer huddled in the barn," said Manitoba farmer Red Greenfield,
whose acreage borders North Dakota.  The producer was cold, exhausted and
hungry. "He asked me if I could spare a latte and some free-range chicken.  When
I said I didn't have any, he left.  Didn't even get a chance to show him
my screenplay, eh?"

In an effort to stop the illegal aliens, Greenfield erected higher
fences, but the liberals scaled them. So he tried installing speakers that blare

Rush Limbaugh across the fields.  "Not real effective," he said. "The
liberals still got through, and Rush annoyed the cows so much they
wouldn't give milk."

Officials are particularly concerned about smugglers who meet liberals
near the Canadian border, pack them into Volvo station wagons, drive them
across the border and leave them to fend for themselves.

"A lot of these people are not prepared for rugged conditions," an
Ontario border patrolman said. "I found one carload without a drop of drinking
water. "They did have a nice little Napa Valley cabernet, though."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2006 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Albany Assembly Members Exit to Support Protest

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 1


The Democrat-controlled Assembly shut down on Monday in what lawmakers called a
show of support for immigrant rights on a day of nationwide boycotts and
protests.

Just after the customary Pledge of Allegiance was recited at the legislative
session in the afternoon, about two dozen lawmakers silently turned around and
walked out of the chamber.

A few students seated in the viewing balcony began to chant, ''Si, se puede,''
-- yes, we can in Spanish -- and were immediately admonished to keep quiet by
guards in the chamber.

The decision to stop regular business in the Assembly came after several Latino
lawmakers said they intended to boycott the day's legislative session.

When other legislators voiced their support for the walkout, it became clear
that there would not be enough Democratic lawmakers present to pass legislation,
several legislators and organizers said.

''This is to show immigrants' power and their strength,'' said Peter M. Rivera,
a Democrat from the Bronx and the chairman of the Assembly Puerto Rican/Hispanic
Task Force, who led the protest. ''We as a community are entitled to certain
rights and we want to bring them to the floor and let other people know.''

Mr. Rivera and the other lawmakers focused their criticism on legislation passed
by the House of Representatives last December that would toughen the penalties
against people who immigrate illegally and those who help them. He said that he
did not expect the state to act on legislation to address immigration, but that
it was important to exert influence on the debate in Washington.

''This is a major, major issue on a national basis and this is the way members
chose to address it,'' said Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly. ''This
was not an issue where the leadership set the policy.''

Although Mr. Rivera and Mr. Silver said there had been a consensus to cancel the
day's session, several other Democratic lawmakers said privately that they
opposed the decision, and dozens remained in the chamber after the walkout.

Assemblyman Jose R. Peralta, who represents Jackson Heights in Queens, said he
was disappointed in the members who chose not to support the protest.

''Today is a historic day, and we are united under one banner that is the
immigrant banner,'' he said. ''To those who stayed behind, remember this --
There is a very famous saying during the time of the Nazis: First they came for
the Jews, and I said nothing because I was not a Jew.''

Mr. Rivera and other Hispanic Assembly members said earlier in the day that they
planned to speak on the issue on the Assembly floor. Instead, they walked out
and held a news conference in a crowded office on the fourth floor of the
Capitol.

No Assembly Republicans participated in the walkout, and when one reporter asked
the group of Democrats who walked out about the Republicans' absence, Rhoda S.
Jacobs, a Democrat from Brooklyn, jumped in to reply.

''They're all at home because there's nobody to mow their lawns,'' she said, as
laughter erupted from the room.

A spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki declined to comment on the Assembly's
shutdown, but in a radio interview with WABC-AM on Saturday morning, the
governor called the national boycott a ''terrible'' idea.

''There are far better ways to gain the support of the American people than
shutting down businesses and looking to disrupt entire communities,'' he said.
''You don't take a demonstration to the streets for a political cause that's
going to threaten our schools and close down businesses.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Luis M. Diaz, Helene E. Weinstein and Naomi Rivera
joined the Assembly walkout yesterday. (Photo by Tim Roske/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 28, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Journalist Faces Charges Over Entering Darfur Region

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: EL FASHER, Sudan, Aug. 27


The Sudanese government has charged Paul Salopek, a foreign correspondent for
The Chicago Tribune and winner of two Pulitzer Prizes, with espionage and
entering the country illegally. Mr. Salopek crossed the border from Chad into
the troubled region of Darfur without a visa about three weeks ago.

Mr. Salopek, who was on leave from The Tribune and on assignment for National
Geographic magazine, was captured Aug. 6 by a militant group allied with the
government and handed over to the Sudanese Army, said one of his lawyers, Omar
el Faroug Hassan.

He was held without outside contact until 10 days ago, when the United States
Embassy in Khartoum was notified of his detention and he was allowed access to a
lawyer.

He is the third Westerner detained and charged after crossing the border from
Chad this month. An American college student was detained and deported this
month after making a similar journey. Tomo Kriznar, a filmmaker and human rights
advocate acting as the envoy of Janez Drnovsek, the Slovenian president, was
sentenced to two years in prison after being convicted on charges similar to
those Mr. Salopek faces.

The Tribune and the National Geographic Society strongly deny that Mr. Salopek,
whose dispatches from across the world have won him acclaim, is a spy.

''Paul Salopek is one of the most accomplished and admired journalists of our
time,'' said Ann Marie Lipinski, editor of The Chicago Tribune, in a statement
released after Mr. Salopek made a brief appearance at the state courthouse here
on Saturday. ''He is not a spy.''

Chris Johns, the editor of National Geographic, called Mr. Salopek a
''world-recognized journalist of the highest standing, with a deep knowledge and
respect for the continent of Africa and its people.''

Mr. Salopek was traveling in Chad to report for an article about the culture,
history and politics of the Sahel region, a vast, arid stretch of earth that
spans the continent from east to west.

His trial was to begin on Saturday, but the judge granted his lawyers' request
for a delay of two weeks to prepare his defense. Two Chadian men traveling with
him, Suleiman Abakar Moussa, an interpreter, and Idriss Abdulraham Anu, a
driver, face the same charges.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Salopek, a reporter, faced a judge on Saturday in El
Fasher, Sudan. He has been charged with espionage and entering the country
illegally. (Photo by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Mas Immigrants, No More Care?

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Fauna Kane is a Republican in Southern California. Oddly enough, she is not
furious about immigration.

She is not sporting the latest fashion statement, the yellow ''No mas!'' button
that Republican legislators wore at the state Capitol on Thursday night to
welcome President Vicente Fox of Mexico. She has not been calling radio shows to
denounce the traitors in the U.S. Senate who voted to liberalize immigration.

At age 95, Mrs. Kane takes the long view. When she hears members of the House
opposing a guest-worker program and vowing to slow the flow of immigrants, she
wonders what lawmakers are contemplating for their old age.

''Maybe the congressmen think their pensions are so good they'll be able to buy
whatever they want when they're old,'' she says. ''But if we didn't have
foreigners, we wouldn't have anybody taking care of us.''

Mrs. Kane has a room in Holiday Villa, an assisted-living home in Santa Monica
with two dozen nurse's aides, cooks, housekeepers and other workers born in
Mexico, El Salvador, Belize and the Philippines. The only native-born Americans
are the director and one assistant.

''I'm the minority here,'' says the director, Mary Ann Anderson. ''We depend on
immigrants -- legal immigrants -- to provide care, and we're going to need more
and more of them as the baby boomers age.''

This is not the perspective of members of Congress up for re-election. They've
focused on the immediate costs of immigration for city and state governments in
border states like California, which do indeed foot the bill for providing
services to low-income immigrants and education for their children.

But immigrants' children have a habit of growing up to become workers -- and
workers will be in demand as the baby boomers retire. The boomers haven't taken
the traditional precaution for old age, which is to have lots of children.

The fertility rate of native-born Americans in many states, including
California, has fallen to near or below the replacement rate, as it has in
European countries that are struggling to support their aging populations.
Worried European leaders have been trying to reverse the decline by offering
subsidies to parents, like the hefty payments announced this month by President
Vladimir Putin of Russia.

But America is in better shape than Europe. Its population is still growing
robustly, partly because of the arrival of adult immigrants, and partly because
immigrants don't have to be bribed to have children. Their higher fertility rate
helps offset the natives', bringing the overall national rate just about up to
the replacement level.

Some ''no mas'' natives complain that the country can't absorb immigrants the
way it once could. But these natives also expect Social Security and Medicare to
sustain them during their retirement. Now that birthrates are low and retirees
are living so long, America needs immigrants more than ever.

If there were a moratorium on legal immigration, the Social Security deficit
would rise by nearly a third over the next 50 years, according to Stuart
Anderson of the National Foundation for American Policy. Even illegal immigrants
help the system's finances, because when they give employers bogus Social
Security numbers, the taxes paid on their behalf end up in the trust fund.

With fewer immigrants, we'd have to either raise taxes or cut retiree benefits.
And who would do the work they're now doing?

It's been argued that they could be replaced by paying higher wages to natives
or by automating the jobs. But those higher salaries would be a serious strain
on public agencies as well as on retired baby boomers with fixed incomes. And
there are a lot of jobs that can't be done by robots, like caring for the
elderly residents at Holiday Villa.

''If it weren't for the help from the people here, I think I'd be a bag lady,''
Mrs. Kane says. ''I have people I can call in an emergency, but you can't count
on your friends or family for little things like opening a tube of toothpaste or
getting you to the doctor.''

As the population ages, it's going to get harder to find young people to do
those jobs unless the Republicans in the House go along with the Senate's plan
to add legal immigrants. But Mrs. Kane can understand why those Republicans
aren't worried about their golden years.

''They're not thinking ahead, but nobody does,'' she says. ''I never thought
this would happen to me. You think the good Lord's going to take care of you.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Signaling Shift in Stance On Immigration

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Carl Hulse contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 4


On the eve of nationwide hearings that could determine the fate of his
immigration bill, President Bush is signaling a new willingness to negotiate
with House Republicans in an effort to revise the stalled legislation before
Election Day.

Republicans both inside and outside the White House say Mr. Bush, who has long
insisted on comprehensive reform, is now open to a so-called enforcement-first
approach that would put new border security programs in place before creating a
guest worker program or path to citizenship for people living in the United
States illegally.

''He thinks that this notion that you can have triggers is something we should
take a close look at, and we are,'' said Candi Wolff, the White House director
of legislative affairs, referring to the idea that guest worker and citizenship
programs would be triggered when specific border security goals had been met, a
process that could take two years.

The shift is significant because Mr. Bush has repeatedly said he favors
legislation like the Senate's immigration bill, which establishes border
security, guest worker and citizenship programs all at once. The
enforcement-first approach puts Mr. Bush one step closer to the House, where
Republicans are demanding an enforcement-only measure.

''The willingness to consider a phased-in situation, that's a pretty big
concession from where they were at,'' said Representative Tom Cole, Republican
of Oklahoma, whose closeness to Mr. Bush dates to his days as a top Republican
National Committee official. ''It's a suggestion they are willing to
negotiate.''

In a sign of that willingness, the White House last week invited a leading
conservative proponent of an enforcement-first bill, Representative Mike Pence,
Republican of Indiana, to present his ideas to Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick
Cheney in the Oval Office.

Ms. Wolff said the president found the Pence plan ''pretty intriguing.''

In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Pence said the president used precisely those words
in their talk. Mr. Pence said that the meeting was scheduled to last 10 or 20
minutes but went on for 40, and that the president ''was quite adamant
throughout the meeting to make the point that he hoped I would be encouraged.''

Mr. Bush has little choice but to negotiate, although he is on delicate terrain.
Some House Republicans remain deeply opposed to even a guest worker program, and
any move closer to the House could upset the delicate bipartisan compromise that
enabled legislation to pass the Senate.

Polls show the public is deeply troubled by the problem of illegal immigration,
and Mr. Bush, who has made the issue his domestic policy initiative, is eager
for a victory on Capitol Hill. But a carefully constructed White House strategy
to prod the House and Senate into compromise collapsed last month when skittish
House Republicans opted for field hearings instead.

The House hearings begin Wednesday in Laredo, Tex., and San Diego and will
continue throughout the summer. In the Senate, Arlen Specter, Republican of
Pennsylvania and chairman of the Judiciary Committee, will convene his committee
on Wednesday in Philadelphia.

The meetings will undoubtedly expose the deep Republican rift just as the
elections draw near, and some say they are simply a way to stave off legislation
until after November. Democrats, eager to pick up Congressional seats, intend to
use the hearings to drive home the idea that Republicans have failed to address
illegal immigration, a tactic that could further complicate prospects for a bill
before Election Day.

One major question is whether Mr. Bush would give up on a path to citizenship
for some of the estimated 11 million to 12 million people living here illegally.
He has said repeatedly that it is impractical to deport those who have lived in
the United States for a long time and built lives here; the Senate bill permits
some longtime illegal residents to become eligible for citizenship if they
learned English and paid taxes and a fine.

Many House Republicans deride such a proposal as amnesty. Mr. Pence would
require illegal immigrants -- even those in the United States for decades -- to
leave the country briefly before returning, with proper documentation, to
participate in a guest worker system. Private employment agencies would set up
shop overseas to process applications; after six years in a guest worker
program, an immigrant could apply for citizenship.

''I believe it's amnesty if you can get right with the law by paying a fine but
never have to go home,'' Mr. Pence said.

Whether Mr. Bush would accept that is not clear. Aides to Mr. Bush, including
Karl Rove, the White House chief political strategist, and Tony Snow, the press
secretary, say he remains adamant that any bill must address the status of the
immigrants who are here illegally.

But one Republican close to the White House, granted anonymity to discuss
internal deliberations, predicted that Mr. Bush would ultimately abandon the
idea of a path to citizenship.

Giving up, though, would doom the legislation in the Senate. Mr. Pence met last
week with leading Republican senators, including Mr. Specter, John McCain of
Arizona and Mel Martinez of Florida.

In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Specter said that proponents of the Senate bill
''are determined to see comprehensive'' legislation, and that ''comprehensive
means all parts, including the 11 million.'' But he also said that he was very
interested in Mr. Pence's approach, and that the tenor of the meeting was that
the Senate could ''move toward a middle ground'' with the House.

The question now is whether President Bush will be able to find that middle
ground in time for the midterm elections. Mr. Cole, the Oklahoma Republican, was
not optimistic.

''Our people would like to have some sort of solution,'' he said, ''but my
instinct tells me this is much more likely to be a post-November, or a 2007 kind
of deal than it is to happen between now and then.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Compassion That Hurts

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 753 words


In 1951 America welcomed an East European refugee who spoke no English. His
first job in the U.S. was at a logging camp in Oregon, and I suppose that if
that job hadn't gone to my father, it would have gone to an American.

That's the nub of the problem: it's hypocritical of us to close the doors behind
us (unless you're a pure Navajo), yet there's a genuine problem with the impact
of immigration on the poorest Americans.

I used to favor a program to allow in guest workers, thinking it would be good
for them and also great for America by providing a source of low-cost labor --
just as it was good for America to admit our own ancestors. And illegal
immigrants overwhelmingly are hard-working people who keep the economy humming,
so they deserve respect rather than xenophobic resentment and a marginalized
life in the shadows.

But I've changed my mind on a guest worker program, because of growing evidence
that low-wage immigration hurts America's own poor.

The most careful study of this issue, done by George Borjas and Lawrence Katz
and published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, found that the surge
of immigration in the 1980's and 1990's lowered the wages of America's own high
school dropouts by 8.2 percent. ''The large growth and predominantly low-skilled
nature of Mexican immigration to the United States over the past two decades
appears to have played a modest role in the widening of the U.S. wage
structure,'' the study concluded.

Another study, by Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, reached
similar conclusions. Between 2000 and 2005, he found, immigrant workers with a
high school degree or less rose by 1.5 million, while employment of native
workers at that education level fell by 3.2 million.

It's often said that immigrants take jobs that Americans won't take. But look at
employment statistics, and you see that even among maids and agricultural
workers, only four out of 10 people are immigrants.

I can't write about this issue without thinking of Elmer, a neighbor when I was
growing up. He's a high school dropout now in his 50's, but when I met him in
1971, he was earning $26 an hour in a union job. He's very hard-working, but for
the last decade he's been reduced to janitorial jobs paying not much over
minimum wage. People like Elmer haven't been heard from in the immigration
debate, but they have the most at stake.

The 1986 immigration amnesty ended up bringing in waves of unskilled workers.
They care for our children and mow our lawns. But as they raise living standards
for many of us, they lower the living standards of Americans like Elmer.

That's a trade-off we need to face squarely. The impulse behind immigration
reforms is a generosity that I admire. But the cold reality is that admitting
poor immigrants often means hurting poor Americans. We can salve the pain with
job programs for displaced Americans, but the fundamental trade-off is
unavoidable.

Children are hit particularly hard, because they are disproportionately likely
to be poor. Nearly half of American children depend on a worker with a high
school education or less.

The broader problem is that our immigration program is structured so as to bring
in cheap laborers more than brilliant minds. At last count, only 16 percent of
admissions for permanent residence went to those with employment qualifications,
while the great majority went to applicants on the basis of family ties.

When I lived in China, American diplomats complained that under the law they had
to deny visas to brilliant physicists while granting immigrant visas to
elementary-school dropouts who had a relative in Chicago.

So let's go ahead and regularize longtime illegals, rather than leaving them
forever in the shadows. But instead of bringing in a new flood of guest workers,
let's recast our generosity more toward biologists and computer programmers. The
H1-B visa program enriches America by bringing in high-tech workers, but the
nominal ceiling on these visas has dropped to 65,000, after temporarily rising
to 195,000 in the 1990's. That's the immigration flow to expand.

In contrast, bringing in 325,000 or more guest workers annually (as various
versions of the current Senate bills provide) would be particularly tough on
America's poor at this time. They are reeling from Bush program cuts and the
fraying of medical safety nets. An influx of hundreds of thousands more
unskilled laborers would impoverish them further -- and to me, that does not
feel like compassion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 120 words



To the Editor:

Nicholas D. Kristof makes a compelling case that mass immigration hurts
low-skilled American workers. He also reminds us that the voices of these
low-skilled workers are ignored in the debate over immigration.

But then Mr. Kristof turns his own argument on its head and advocates bringing
in a larger number of high-skilled immigrants. But bringing in more high-skilled
foreign workers would make it only more difficult for middle-class Americans to
find middle-class jobs.

I know people with a college education who have been out of work for several
years. If they haven't fallen from the middle class yet, they soon will. What
would Mr. Kristof say to them?

Robert Baillie
Ann Arbor, Mich., April 9, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Day of Protests Cost Few Immigrant Workers Their Jobs

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Gretchen Ruethling contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, May 5


Fewer people than expected have reported losing their jobs after missing work on
Monday to take part in immigration demonstrations across the country, organizers
here said Friday.

Leaders of groups that helped organize the demonstrations, meant to influence
Congress to loosen the country's laws on immigration, said they had learned of
40 to 50 workers who lost their jobs after the marches.

Tim Bell, executive director of the Chicago Workers Collaborative, said that
reports of firings were still arriving, but that the numbers -- involving about
14 mostly small businesses in Connecticut, California, Illinois, Iowa and Texas
-- appeared to be smaller than those reported after similar demonstrations
earlier this year.

Organizers said they believed that many employers had come to understand the
importance of the demonstrations or, at least, to accept the reality of their
size and of workers' emotions over the issue.

After earlier demonstrations, which caught many employers by surprise, some
companies made plans -- closing down or closing early -- for Monday's events.
Others set down provisions for vacation and personal days after being approached
by workers with petitions arguing for a chance to join the protests, which were
intended to press Washington to grant legal status to many of the nation's 11
million illegal immigrants.

On Friday, Mr. Bell and other members of a coalition of organizers declined to
name all but two of the businesses involved, saying they were still negotiating
privately with some of them, hoping to get workers their jobs back.

In Roselle, Ill., Jason W. Kinander, the chief executive of Electri-Flex, which
makes flexible tubes that surround electrical wires, said he had given his 100
workers plenty of notice about what they had to do if they wanted to attend the
rallies. But two failed to call in to report they would be missing work and
failed to show up on Monday, Mr. Kinander said. Both lost their jobs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rules Collide With Reality In the Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1346 words

DATELINE: MOUNT OLIVE, N.C.


Six years after he came here from Mexico, David E. has a steady job in a poultry
plant, a tidy mobile home and a minivan. Some days he almost forgets that he
does not have legal documents to be in this country.

David's precarious success reflects the longtime disconnect between the huge
number of Mexican immigrants the American economy has absorbed and the much
smaller number the immigration system has allowed to enter legally.

Like many Mexicans, David -- who spoke in Spanish and whose last name is being
withheld because he feared being fired or deported -- was drawn by the
near-certain prospect of work when he made his stealthy passage across the
desert border in Arizona to this town among the cucumber fields of eastern North
Carolina.

''If I had the resources and the connections to apply to come legally,'' said
David, 37, ''I wouldn't need to leave Mexico to work in this country.''

In the foundering immigration system being debated in Congress, immigration from
Mexico is a critically broken part and, researchers and analysts say, central to
any meaningful fix.

By big margins, Mexican workers have been the dominant group coming to the
United States over the last two decades, yet Washington has opened only limited
legal channels for them, and has then repeatedly narrowed those channels.

''People ask: Why don't they come legally? Why don't they wait in line?'' said
Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, a research
organization in Washington. ''For most Mexicans, there is no line to get in.''

The United States offers 5,000 permanent visas worldwide each year for unskilled
laborers. Last year, two of them went to Mexicans. In the same year, about
500,000 unskilled Mexican workers crossed the border illegally, researchers
estimate, and most of them found jobs.

''We have a neighboring country with a population of 105 million that is our
third-largest trading partner, and it has the same visa allocation as Botswana
or Nepal,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a sociology professor at Princeton.

Several guest worker programs exist for Mexicans to come temporarily to the
United States. But there is general agreement that those programs are
inefficient, and employers often avoid them.

The 11.6 million people born in Mexico who now live in the United States account
for one-third of all residents who were born overseas, census figures show.
About six million of the Mexican immigrants are here illegally, more than half
of all the illegal immigrants in the country, Professor Passel estimated.

For generations, starting with the Bracero program in the 1950's, Mexican men
came to the United States to work for a few months each year before returning
home to their families. But in the last 20 years, Mexicans ''have settled in the
United States; they have kids born here,'' said Wayne Cornelius, director of the
Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San
Diego.

''Clearly there are some migrants who attempt to maintain an economic foothold
in Mexico,'' Mr. Cornelius said. ''But their main project is to build their
lives in the United States.''

And so communities of illegal Mexican immigrants have sprung up in places like
Mount Olive, a town far from the border with a famous pickle factory and a
population of 5,000. Grocery stores on country roadsides carry corn tortillas --
authentic ones imported from Mexico. A Pentecostal church has services in
Spanish only, and the Virgin of Guadalupe, Mexico's patroness, is a common image
on key chains and mobile home walls.

In North Carolina, the immigrant population has nearly tripled since 1990, the
biggest increase of any state in the nation, according to the Migration Policy
Institute, a nonpartisan group in Washington. By far the biggest group of new
immigrants in the state is illegal Mexicans.

Stephen P. Gennett, president of the Carolinas chapter of the Associated General
Contractors of America, which represents commercial builders, said Mexican
immigrants filled an important gap in the labor market.

''We have a problem here: a people shortage,'' Mr. Gennett said. ''In the 90's,
we began to feel the stress of an inadequate work force,'' he said. ''The
Hispanics have been filling those jobs.''

As Mexican immigration has accelerated, the United States has cut back on the
permanent-resident visas available to unskilled Mexicans and shifted the system
progressively away from an emphasis on labor, to favor immigrants with family
ties to American citizens or legal residents, or who have highly specialized job
skills.

The Bracero program was closed in the mid-1960's. In 1976, Congress imposed an
annual limit of 20,000 permanent visas on each country in the Western
Hemisphere, including Mexico. In 1978, in 1980 and again in the 1990's, further
changes resulted in reductions of resident visas for Mexican workers.

In 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement unleashed a surge of
cross-border trade and travel, but at the same time the United States initiated
the first in a series of measures to reinforce the border with Mexico to block
the passage of illegal workers.

For Mexicans who try to immigrate legally, the line can seem endless. A Mexican
who has become a naturalized United States citizen and wants to bring an adult
son or daughter to live here faces a wait of at least 12 years, State Department
rosters show. The wait is as long as seven years for a legal resident from
Mexico who wants to bring a spouse and young children.

Although David E. graduated from a Mexican university, he does not have an
advanced degree, a rare skill or family ties to a legal United States resident
that might have made him eligible for one of the scarce permanent visas.

Instead, he said, after he despaired of finding work at a decent wage in his
home city, Veracruz, he discovered an alternative immigration system, the
well-tried underground network of word-of-mouth connections. Contacts he made
through the network helped him to make the trek to Arizona, traverse the country
in a van loaded with illegal Mexicans and land a job eviscerating turkeys at a
poultry plant in Mount Olive three weeks after he arrived.

David has been at the plant ever since, rising to become the chief of an
assembly line but still working as much as 12 hours a day on a red-eye shift
that ends at 3 a.m.

From time to time he has made inquiries about becoming legal. But he said he was
detained twice by the Border Patrol when he first tried to cross into the United
States, and with that record, he feared that any approach to the immigration
authorities might end in deportation.

Juvencio Rocha Peralta, the president of the Mexican Association of North
Carolina, an advocacy group, said Mexicans felt trapped in a system that seemed
contradictory.

''You make us break the law because you don't give us an opportunity to be
legal,'' said Mr. Peralta, who came here as an illegal farm worker years ago but
was granted amnesty in 1986 and is now a naturalized American citizen. ''You
take my labor, but you don't give me documents.''

Not far from here, on the outskirts of Raleigh at the Foxhall Village mobile
home park, with its orderly grid of streets, illegal immigration is an open
secret.

Most residents are Mexicans who have been in North Carolina for a decade or
more. Many work two jobs, and many are making payments to buy the mobile homes
they occupy.

In April, many residents, galvanized by disputes over rent increases with the
mobile home park management, joined the Association of Community Organizations
for Reform Now, knownas Acorn, and staged a protest march.

More than a dozen residents who gathered for a boisterous conversation at the
park on May 16 acknowledged their illegal status, but said they had to risk
coming forward to resolve their fight with park managers.

One park resident, Blanca Florian, 30, whose husband is a skilled construction
worker, said she feared losing her mobile home if she did not speak up.

''I can't be hiding any longer,'' Ms. Florian said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: David E., 37, and his wife, Irma, 38, live in Mount Olive, N.C.

 In the Foxhall Village mobile home park on the outskirts of Raleigh, N.C., many
illegal immigrants from Mexico are raising American families. (Photographs by
Chris Keane for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Compromise

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 99 words



To the Editor:

It seems as if the debate on immigration (front page, May 25) excludes some
middle ground on which compromise might be reached.

For example, a guest-worker program could include a savings program that would
begin payments only upon the worker's return to Mexico.

Such a program might be sufficient to encourage many if not most guest workers
ultimately to return to the country and culture of their birth. At a time when
increasing numbers of United States citizens are retiring to Mexico, this could
prove to be an attractive option.

Merrick Spiers
Cambridge, Mass., May 25, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Worker Next Door

BYLINE: By Barry R. Chiswick.

Barry R. Chiswick is head of the economics department at the University of
Illinois at Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 890 words

DATELINE: Chicago


IT is often said that the American economy needs low-skilled foreign workers to
do the jobs that American workers will not do. These foreign workers might be
new immigrants, illegal aliens or, in the current debate, temporary or guest
workers. But if low-skilled foreign workers were not here, would lettuce not be
picked, groceries not bagged, hotel sheets not changed, and lawns not mowed?
Would restaurants use disposable plates and utensils?

On the face of it, this assertion seems implausible. Immigrants and low-skilled
foreign workers in general are highly concentrated in a few states. The ''big
six'' are California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas. Even
within those states, immigrants and low-skilled foreign workers are concentrated
in a few metropolitan areas -- while there are many in New York City and
Chicago, relatively few are in upstate New York or downstate Illinois.

Yet even in areas with few immigrants, grass is cut, groceries are bagged and
hotel sheets are changed. Indeed, a large majority of low-skilled workers are
native to the United States. A look at the 2000 census is instructive: among
males age 25 to 64 years employed that year, of those with less than a high
school diploma, 64 percent were born in the United States and 36 percent were
foreign born.

Other Americans nominally graduated from high school but did not learn a trade
or acquire the literacy, numeracy or decision-making skills needed for higher
earnings. Still others suffer from a physical or emotional ailment that limits
their labor productivity. And some low-skilled jobs are performed by high school
or college students, housewives or the retired who wish to work part time. Put
simply, there are no low-skilled jobs that American workers would not and do not
do.

Over the past two decades the number of low-skilled workers in the United States
has increased because of immigration, both legal and illegal. This increase in
low-skilled workers has contributed to the stagnation of wages for all such
workers. The proposed ''earned legalization'' (amnesty) and guest worker
programs would allow still more low-skilled workers into the country, further
lowering their collective wages.

True, the prices of the goods and services that these new immigrants produce are
reduced for the rich and poor alike. But the net effect of this dynamic is a
decline in the purchasing power of low-skilled families and a rise in the
purchasing power of high-income families -- a significant factor behind the
increase in income inequality that has been of considerable public concern over
the past two decades.

In short, the continued increase in the flow of unskilled workers into the
United States is the economic and moral equivalent of a regressive tax.

If the number of low-skilled foreign workers were to fall, wages would increase.
Low-skilled American workers and their families would benefit, and society as a
whole would gain from a reduction in income inequality.

Employers facing higher labor costs for low-skilled workers would raise their
prices, and to some extent they would change the way they operate their
businesses. A farmer who grows winter iceberg lettuce in Yuma County, Ariz., was
asked on the ABC program ''Nightline'' in April what he would do if it were more
difficult to find the low-skilled hand harvesters who work on his farm, many of
whom are undocumented workers. He replied that he would mechanize the harvest.
Such technology exists, but it is not used because of the abundance of low-wage
laborers. In their absence, mechanical harvesters -- and the higher skilled (and
higher wage) workers to operate them -- would replace low-skilled, low-wage
workers.

But, you might ask, who would mow the lawns in suburbia? The higher wages would
attract more lower-skilled American workers (including teenagers) to these jobs.
Facing higher costs, some homeowners would switch to grass species that grow
more slowly, to alternative ground cover or to flagstones. Others would simply
mow every other week, or every 10 days, instead of weekly. And some would
combine one or more of these strategies to offset rising labor costs.

Few of us change our sheets and towels at home every day. Hotels and motels
could reduce the frequency of changing sheets and towels from every day to, say,
every third day for continuing guests, perhaps offering a price discount to
guests who accept this arrangement.

Less frequent lawn mowing and washing of hotel sheets and towels would reduce
air, noise and water pollution in the bargain.

With the higher cost of low-skilled labor, we would import more of some goods,
in particular table-quality fruits and vegetables for home consumption (as
distinct from industrial use) and lower-priced off-the-rack clothing. But it
makes no sense to import people to produce goods in the United States for which
we lack a comparative advantage -- that is, goods that other countries can
produce more efficiently.

The point is that with a decline in low-skilled foreign workers, life would go
on. The genius of the American people is their ingenuity, and the genius of the
American economy is its flexibility. And throughout our nation's history, this
flexibility, the finding of alternative ways of doing things, has been a prime
engine of economic growth and change.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Beefs Up Nebraska

BYLINE: By Richard Dooling.

Richard Dooling is a screenwriter and the author, most recently, of ''Bet Your
Life.''

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: Omaha


ROUNDLY castigated recently for being a ''cow town'' in the middle of nowhere
when it comes to anti-terrorism money, ''sleepy'' Omaha played host to President
Bush last Wednesday, perhaps to help the president prove that immigration is an
issue in the middle of everywhere.

The president visited South Omaha's Juan Diego Center, operated by Catholic
Charities to help new immigrants adjust to life in the United States, and then
spoke at a nearby community college. I attended his speech, accompanied by Amy
Peck, a Nebraska lawyer with a once thriving, now frantic, immigration practice
here in Omaha, more than 1,000 miles from the Mexican border.

No fan of President Bush or his foreign policy, Ms. Peck is surprised to find
herself applauding his immigration proposals: Like Senator Chuck Hagel of
Nebraska, she says, President Bush speaks about immigration issues in a
practical, sensible and compassionate way.

Immigration is a hot economic topic here, because Nebraska has become a
destination for migrant workers. Since Ms. Peck began her immigration practice
in 1987, the number of undocumented workers and their families living in
Nebraska and Iowa has increased by more than 1,500 percent, to as many as
140,000. So says The Omaha World-Herald, which these days has a full-time
immigration reporter and steady coverage of immigration issues and their impact
on the Nebraska-Iowa economies.

Immigrants want jobs, and Nebraska's unemployment rate is usually half to
two-thirds the national unemployment rate: in 2005, the unemployment rate was
3.81 percent for Nebraska, versus 5.1 percent nationally. The $2 billion Omaha
building boom, the declining population in Nebraska's outlying counties and the
corporate consolidation of farms have all conspired to create relatively
well-paying jobs in construction, hospitality, meat packing and agriculture.

The president used the words ''assimilate'' and ''assimilation'' throughout his
speech and emphasized the impact of migrant entrepreneurs on Nebraska's economy,
citing the case of Salvador Pina, a ''new American citizen,'' who received a
$10,000 loan from the Juan Diego Center, started an auto-repair business in
Omaha and now employs three people. In a state perpetually worried about losing
one of its Congressional seats because of the dwindling population in outlying
counties, the sheer numbers of immigrants have a big impact and can often
revitalize dying towns.

Ernie Goss, an economist at Creighton University here, has looked closely at
this effect. For instance, the slow ascent evident in a graph of Nebraska's
population (cresting at just over 1.7 million) conceals social and economic
dislocations, which become apparent when Mr. Goss separates domestic
(state-to-state) migration from international migration. From 1990 to 2005, 21
states, including Nebraska and New York, lost more people to state-to-state
migration than they gained. Of those 21 ''loser'' states, only six (Nebraska,
California, Maryland, New Jersey, South Dakota and Wyoming) were able to attract
enough immigrants to show net population gains. (Note to New Yorkers: Nebraska's
census figures do not include cows.)

Mr. Goss also demonstrates how immigrants often have a double-barreled effect on
local economies, because they stimulate increased trade with their native
countries. For instance, from 1999 to 2005, Mexico was Nebraska's second fastest
growing export market, expanding by $276 million, or 110 percent.

This growth rate was approximately three times the United States' growth in
trade with Mexico for the same period. The food industry represented 67 percent
of Nebraska's increase in exports to Mexico; food processing and meat packing
have the highest shares of immigrant labor.

Of course, the flip side of the president's ''assimilation'' is stringent
enforcement of existing immigration laws, an approach that many conservative
Nebraskans favor. After spending a few days researching the impact of immigrants
on the economy in the state, I, for one, believe that yes, we could strengthen
immigration enforcement and expel any worker with iffy documentation from our
meat packing and food processing plants. But that could cause a calamity for the
rest of the country: No more steaks.

HOME ECONOMICS
Unemployment's down, inflation's up and consumer confidence blows with the wind.
Just how are Americans actually doing? Last fall, the Op-Ed page asked writers
to provide snapshots of their local economies over the course of the year. Here
is their third round of dispatches.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Mike Slack)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 45 words


A picture caption on Sept. 24 with an article about immigrant workers who were
photographed as superheroes misidentified one of the superheroes. Sergio Garcia,
a worker, was dressed as Mr. Fantastic, the Fantastic Four team member with an
elastic body -- not as Elastic Man.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farmworkers' Union Is Set to Announce First National Contract for Guest Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: A DEAL; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 599 words


With Congress debating a major expansion in the program for guest workers, the
nation's largest union of farmworkers planned to announce today that it had
signed the first nationwide contract covering agricultural guest workers.

The union, the United Farm Workers, and Global Horizons, a labor contractor
based in Los Angeles, have signed an agreement that provides employer-paid
medical care, a seniority system and a grievance procedure to help ensure that
farms comply with state and federal laws.

''This is huge, because we're setting a whole new standard of rights and
benefits for guest workers,'' said Erik Nicholson, the union's Pacific Northwest
director. ''Guest workers have been the most exploitable and vulnerable workers
short of slaves in the United States.''

Global Horizons, one of the nation's largest suppliers of agricultural guest
workers, has nearly 1,000 in the country now, but plans to have 3,000 to 5,000
by peak harvest season this summer.

The company, which has workers in more than a dozen states, signed the union
contract in part to help improve its image after Washington State revoked its
license to do business there because of violations alleged by state
investigators. The state accused it of failing to pay Thai guest workers their
promised wages, putting them in inadequate housing, not paying enough
unemployment insurance taxes and improperly withholding state income taxes.

Gov. Chris Gregoire of Washington revoked Global's license last December, even
though the company had agreed three months earlier to a $230,000 settlement,
which was used largely for workers' unreimbursed airfare and for improperly
deducted taxes.

Global Horizons said it had committed only minor violations.

Mordechai Orian, the president of Global Horizons, said the union contract would
help defuse complaints that guest worker programs treated workers poorly. At a
time when many fruit and vegetable growers are having a hard time finding enough
workers, Mr. Orian said the contract would also help persuade guest workers to
stay in agriculture instead of leaving soon after arriving in the United States
to work in other industries.

''It's definitely going to cost us more money,'' Mr. Orian said, asserting that
the guest worker program was a good one for workers, and would soon be better as
a result of this contract.

Agricultural guest workers, who enter the country under the H-2A program, often
remain for six months to two years. Under federal law, labor contractors and
growers can import such workers only after showing that there are not enough
workers in the nation to take the farm jobs.

''From the bracero program of the 1940's, 50's and 60's to the present-day H-2A
program, the use of agricultural guest workers has been beset by violations of
legal protections,'' said Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm
Workers. ''For the first time, a union contract will protect agricultural guest
workers from retaliation for complaining about conditions or treatment.''

In 2004, another farmworkers' union, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, signed
a contract that protects several thousand guest workers in just one industry in
one state, cucumber workers in North Carolina.

Under the contract with Global Horizons, the guest workers will be paid 2
percent more than the minimum wage that guest workers normally receive. In
Washington State, for instance, the federal minimum for agricultural guest
workers is $9.01.

The contract also includes three-day bereavement leave as well as round-trip
transportation if a family member dies back home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Hired After Storm Sue New Orleans Hotel Executive

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 551 words


In a new twist on the labor problems bedeviling New Orleans, a group of guest
workers from Latin America, brought in to maintain some of the city's hotels
after Hurricane Katrina, filed a lawsuit yesterday complaining that they were
being shortchanged by a prominent hotel executive and developer.

The workers are in the country legally on visas obtained for them by Decatur
Hotels, which is owned by F. Patrick Quinn III, a real estate investor who
became known for his determination to find opportunity in the wake of the
hurricane.

Drawn to New Orleans by promises that they would work 40 hours a week plus
overtime, the workers said, they are instead working as little as 10 hours a
week for as little as $6.14 an hour, and, under the terms of their visas, cannot
find other jobs. That has left them unable to repay several thousand dollars
owed to recruiters in their home countries of Peru, Bolivia and the Dominican
Republic.

''The amount of money we are earning, it's not enough to get our investment back
and to send money home -- it's not enough to survive,'' said Rodolfo A.
Valdez-Baez, 40, who said he borrowed $3,000 to get the job and to pay for
travel to and from the Dominican Republic.

Among other labor problems, illegal workers have complained of abuse in the
region's reconstruction industry, and local residents have complained they are
being undercut for rebuilding jobs.

In a statement, Mr. Quinn said the workers were brought in after much of the
local work force had evacuated after Hurricane Katrina. He said his company,
which operates 15 hotels in central New Orleans, contracted ''with an
international work force recruitment company so it could continue to operate and
house first responders, evacuees, volunteers, workers and guests.''

He added, ''To further the recovery efforts, Decatur Hotels has provided many
additional benefits outside the scope of the agreement.''

His statement did not address the specific issues in the lawsuit.

The workers said they were paying $50 a week to stay in hotel rooms provided by
the company.

Almost since Hurricane Katrina made land in New Orleans last Aug. 29, the city
has been vexed by tension over the influx of workers from out of state and
overseas. A study released in June found that a quarter of the workers
rebuilding the city were illegal immigrants, almost all of them Hispanic, making
far less money than legal workers.

Mr. Quinn's wife, Julie Quinn, is a state senator representing some of the New
Orleans area, and his son James is executive director of the state Republican
Party.

Lawyers for the guest workers said that last fall, Mr. Quinn applied to the
federal government for temporary work visas under what is known as the H-2B
program, saying that he could not find qualified workers in the United States.
But the workers did not arrive until this spring, the lawyers said.

The lawsuit contends that the company's goal was to ''was to drive down wages
and working conditions.''

The foreign workers are receiving $6 or $7 an hour, said Jennifer J. Rosenbaum,
a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center, which is representing 82 of the
guest workers. ''That is not what you have to pay a desk clerk in your luxury
hotel here, and it is not a living wage to live here,'' she said from New
Orleans.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Human-Smuggling Inquiry Leads to Raids and Arrests

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, May 1


Federal agents on Monday broke up what they said was a human-smuggling ring
based in New Jersey that investigators believe may have forced immigrant women
to work as prostitutes.

Investigators with the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement office
in Newark arrested two brothers and detained more than 60 others on Monday
morning after raiding 15 sites, including places in West New York, Union City
and elsewhere in Hudson County.

Officials said that they were also caring for a dozen children who were found
during the raids. Investigators said they were the children of the women who
were taken into custody.

Immigration officials said they were still trying to gauge the scope of the
ring's operations, which almost exclusively involved Mexican immigrants, and
determine if the women had been forced into prostitution.

''We know it's an illegal smuggling operation,'' said Kyle Hutchins, special
agent in charge of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Newark.
''We do not know who smuggled these people. We don't even know if they were
forced into prostitution. They might have been prostitutes in Mexico who came up
here to make more money.''

Two brothers, Jose Luis Notario, 50, and Ignacio Notario, 46, were arrested in
Union on Monday on charges related to illegally transmitting money. Jose Luis
Notario, who was born in Mexico and is a legal permanent resident of the United
States, was also charged with harboring illegal immigrants. His brother, who was
living in the country illegally, faces a deportation order, Mr. Hutchins said.

Officials say they believe that the Notarios traveled frequently to ferry money
between the United States and Mexico. In addition, a criminal complaint filed
against the brothers accused Ignacio Notario of illegally transporting
''medicine used in the prostitution business, including antibiotics,
abortion-inducing drugs and condoms'' that they said he had obtained from drug
stores in Mexico and then smuggled into the United States.

The complaint accused Ignacio Notario of selling some of the items at his
convenience store, Su Tienda Mexicana, in West New York.

Both men made their initial appearance in federal court in Newark on Monday.

The investigation into the ring began about 18 months ago when federal agents
working in San Diego obtained the address of what the complaint called a safe
house in New Jersey, which was raided on Monday, Mr. Hutchins said.

The ring appears to be related to a smuggling operation that originated in San
Miguel Tenancingo, in the Mexican state of Tlaxcala, from which women are taken
to the United States to work as prostitutes, the complaint said.

''Once the females are smuggled into the United States, a large percentage are
transported to the East Coast, where they are put to work as prostitutes, some
against their will,'' the complaint read.

The women were taken to houses in northern New Jersey and in Jackson Heights,
Queens, from which they were sent to work weeklong shifts in brothels in
Maryland and Virginia, according to the complaint. It was unclear Monday night
if the house in Queens was raided.

At the end of the women's shifts, the complaint said, they were brought ''back
to the 'safe houses' where they live with their traffickers.''

It was during one of those return trips, on Sunday night, Mr. Hutchins said,
that the authorities made their first break in the case. The state police pulled
over a car and a van and detained 10 women and 2 drivers who were returning from
Maryland.

On Monday morning, agents raided various ''safe houses'' in northern New Jersey
and detained 26 women and 28 men. Charges were pending against them.

Mr. Hutchins said that it might take several weeks for the authorities to put
together a comprehensive portrait of the ring, but he said more arrests were
expected.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Smugglers' Due

BYLINE: By Alex Kotlowitz.

Alex Kotlowitz is a regular contributor to the magazine. His last article was
about a Kurdish immigrant fighting deportation.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; CHAPTER 4: THE IMMIGRANT; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 6776 words


I was introduced to Deng Chen through an attorney who had helped him with some
legal matters. Her specialty is trafficking, and when I told her I was doing
some research on human smuggling and its victims, she cautioned me to be careful
about using the word ''victim'' and, more to the point, not to confuse
trafficking, which involves coercion, with smuggling, which is by choice. But
then she told me about Chen, who at age 14 was sent by his parents to this
country from China, by himself, with the assistance of smugglers; over the next
four years, Chen worked to pay off a smuggling debt of $45,000, plus interest.

Deng Chen and I first got together this past winter in a room he was renting in
Flushing, Queens. The third-floor apartment had been partitioned, so that every
room, except the kitchen, was occupied; there were eight people living there,
all Chinese, some documented, some not. On a later visit, the holders of the
apartment's lease would chastise Chen for bringing a stranger there, but on this
occasion no one was around, so we sat on the floor of his spartan room, leaned
against his bed and talked for nearly five hours.

There was not much to distract us. On a desk in one corner sat a portable
computer, a gift from an older woman who helped him along the way. His rather
meager wardrobe fit on three small shelves, on top of which, beside a small
bamboo plant, sat framed snapshots of his mother and father, whom he hadn't seen
in eight years, and by his television was a bottle of plum wine that he drinks
to help him sleep.

Chen, who is now 23, is of slender build. His dress is unobtrusive: on this
occasion, he wore jeans, a white collared shirt and Timberland boots. With his
soft features, he could pass for a teenager, but his purposefulness is of
someone well beyond his years. He is most animated talking about politics; he
reads The New York Times online every day and purchases a copy of the Hong
Kong-based Sing Tao Daily. His supervisor at the New York Asian Women's Center,
where he worked, laughingly told me: ''He likes to share his view on society and
politics. A lot. A whole lot.'' Chen can also be restless and fidgety, and often
I would notice one of his feet tap-dancing as he spoke, keeping rhythm to the
vicissitudes of his journey.

Sometimes during our visits together, it felt as if he would rather be somewhere
else, and indeed, on a couple of occasions he would cut our interview short,
telling me he needed to be somewhere or meet someone. But periodically he would
say something so utterly frank and yet deadpan that it would take me awhile to
realize what he was imparting. As we talked on this particular afternoon, he
applied tissues to his nose, which was bleeding. He told me that the previous
day he had outpatient surgery to repair a damaged septum. It wasn't a big deal,
he assured me, though he seemed in some discomfort. I asked him how he was able
to pay for the procedure, and he explained that he had health insurance from his
job assisting Asian-American women who were victims of domestic abuse. He then
volunteered that he had been instructed by the hospital that he needed to have
someone pick him up after the surgery. He told me that he had no one to call,
and so he paid $20 to an acquaintance, someone he barely knew, to come get him.

As I got to know Chen over the following months, it became apparent that this
moment symbolized something larger: his utter loneliness. He once told me that
when he had time off from work, he would occasionally stroll to the nearby park,
where he would toss a rubber ball against a concrete wall. A solitary figure
having a catch with himself. He didn't tell me this to elicit my pity. Rather,
he was matter-of-factly explaining what he did with his spare time. It is who he
is. Even though others view him as a template for success, Chen sees himself as
not belonging, as someone precariously walking the shoreline, an anonymous young
man who could easily drift into the currents without anyone taking notice. He
told me at one point: ''I just don't like people. Unless it's absolutely
necessary. I just want to be left alone.'' But I don't believe it's that
simple.+

Immigration to America from China has happened in steps. First, the Cantonese
came from Guangdong Province, and they were followed by professionals and
businesspeople, mostly from Taiwan and Hong Kong. In the 80's, another wave of
migrants began, this time from Fujian Province, a mountainous region that sits
along the southeast coast of China. The Fujianese being a seafaring people, it
seemed only natural that their first means of emigration would be by boat, and
in 1993 when the freighter Golden Venture ran aground off the beaches of Queens,
their journey became front-page news. What went relatively unnoticed in the
coverage afterward is that of the nearly 300 men and women on board the Golden
Venture, about 10 of them were under 18, traveling on their own.

In the intervening decade, the smuggling of humans from China has continued,
though no one is certain of the numbers; estimates, though elusive, range
anywhere from 10,000 to 50,000 a year. Some things have changed. The smugglers
-- known as ''snakeheads'' -- have become more sophisticated and considerably
more expensive. Though many Fujianese still come by freighter or by fishing
boat, many now also arrive by plane bearing false papers; moreover, they often
land -- by boat or plane -- first in Canada, the Caribbean or Central America.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement reports that in recent months 50 to 100
Chinese each week have been taken into custody trying to cross the Mexican
border.

The snakeheads, who in the 1980's had a Mafia-style presence in New York's
Chinatown, often publicly beating and kidnapping those who fell behind in their
payments, now apply much of their muscle back home in China, threatening and, if
it serves their purposes, physically punishing family members of those who have
fallen behind in their installments. For those on the Golden Venture, their
travels cost roughly $30,000; the snakeheads reportedly now charge upward of
$70,000.

As the cost has gone up, the number of years it takes to pay off the debt has
risen as well. In the early 1990's, some could repay the smugglers in two years;
it now takes twice as long. ''A lot of Americans have a hard time understanding
it,'' says Ko-lin Chin, a professor at the School of Criminal Justice at Rutgers
University in Newark. ''But put yourself in their shoes.'' If they remain in
China, Chin says, they will earn perhaps $200 a month. If they come to the
United States, they can earn $2,000 a month working at a restaurant. Once the
debt is paid off, most continue to send money home and often help to pay the way
for another family member to come to the U.S. Fujianese families with sons or
daughters in the U.S. also achieve a certain status. Peter Kwong, a professor of
Asian-American studies at Hunter College, has written extensively on human
smuggling from China and has visited Fujian. Kwong told me that during his stay
in the villages there, residents ''would show us that so and so has a two-story
house. 'Look at them,' they'd say, 'they have a son in America.''' The sobriquet
for families with members in the U.S. roughly translates to ''relatives of a
beautiful country.''

Another thing that has changed is that it appears that more children -- mostly
teenagers -- are coming into the U.S. by themselves, without an adult. (This
seems to be true of children from other countries too; in 2005, 7,787
unaccompanied minors trying to enter this country were detained by immigration
authorities, up 26 percent from the previous year.) For many, their parents have
arranged for them to connect with a relative here, but sometimes it is a distant
family member who often has no interest in watching after a teenager. They are
sent here to work, in the hope that they will be able to send money back home or
that they will find a better life. While the numbers aren't necessarily large,
they appear to have grown since the early 90's; about six years ago, a former
shelter director told me, immigration authorities took into custody several
hundred Chinese children coming over the borders and through the airports. (In a
one-week period this April, at least seven children from China trying to enter
this country were taken into custody by immigration authorities.) These numbers,
of course, don't include all those who get in undetected, like Chen. Chen's
story is a fairly typical one -- except for the outcome. Chen's case, in fact,
has pushed some to rethink our definition of human trafficking.

The details of his story were provided to me by Chen, and where I could, I
confirmed them with contemporaneous accounts he gave to people along the way or
with documentation, including letters he wrote, school records, notes made by
staff members during his stay at a runaway shelter and receipts for the money he
sent back to China. I also spoke with other young people who had made similar
journeys as well as social-service providers who work with those children.
Through Chen, his parents, who are in China, declined to talk with me.

Chen grew up in a rural village in Fujian and is the third of three children; he
has a brother and sister. He is unsure why his parents were able to have more
than one child, though China's enforcement of its family-planning policy has
been more vigilantly enforced in some areas than in others. He says that his
parents were neither poor nor well off. His father worked at a local food store,
which he eventually purchased from the owner, and his mother labored at a brick
factory.

He comes from a family that clearly valued education. His brother went to
college in Beijing, and Chen's parents sent him to live with a family friend in
a nearby town for two years so that he might attend a more prestigious school
and, they hoped, follow his brother to the university. Chen says that he
narrowly missed qualifying for a top-notch secondary school and so continued his
education in his village. His mother frequently talked to Chen of going to the
U.S., where she insisted he would have more opportunities and where he could
help his family financially. She told Chen that she worried he would end up
leading a miserable life if he were to stay in China.

On a fall day in 1997, Chen says, his mother came to his school and told his
teacher that something urgent had come up and that she needed to take him out of
class. Chen, who was 14 at the time, remembers his instructor, a tall elderly
man, arguing with his mother. ''He looked at me,'' Chen recalls. ''Maybe he knew
what was going to happen.'' But his mother insisted, and Chen got into a van
with his mother and a driver. His mother told him that he was going to the
United States and that he would be accompanied by a woman who, it turns out,
would pose as his mother. His real mother had packed Chen's clothes in a small
suitcase, and she whispered to him that she had sewn $300 in American currency
into a pair of his underwear. That was it. No photos. No notes. No mementos of
any kind. Just a long, tearful hug at the airport. ''Be a good boy,'' the mother
told her son.

Chen was given false papers for the trip, and at a stopover in Shenyang, he met
with a man introduced as ''the boss,'' who alerted Chen to things he might be
asked by U.S. customs agents, like the color of American taxis, and then drilled
Chen on his new identity. His fiction was that he and his ''mother'' had
returned to China from the U.S. to bury his grandmother and to sell some
properties. He never had to answer customs officials, though. Instead, the woman
accompanying him did all the talking. They traveled via Seoul, South Korea,
where they spent a week holed up in a motel room watching movies, then to Los
Angeles and on to New York, where, Chen recalls, they were met by two men, one
of whom held his photograph. They quickly hustled Chen and the woman into a car,
and they were driven to a basement apartment somewhere in New York.

That same day, he was put on the phone with his mother and was instructed to
tell her that he had arrived in New York and that he was O.K. This is typically
how the snakeheads work. Chen's family then made their payment of $45,000, money
they borrowed from loan sharks, who are usually closely tied to the smugglers.
After two or three days, once the payment went through, Chen was released and
dropped off on East Broadway in Chinatown, which is the heart of the Fujianese
community in New York. He asked passers-by for help in purchasing a phone card
and went to call his mother.

During one of my visits to Chinatown, I spent time with Steven Wong, who runs
the Lin Zexu Foundation of U.S.A., which despite its lofty-sounding title is a
shoestring operation run out of a two-room basement office off a short street.
Wong is a square-jawed, compact man who at 51 has a small paunch. He smokes
Marlboros nonstop, filling the windowless office with a haze, which gives the
place a film-noir quality. Wong told me that he first became active in the
Fujianese community to fight drugs (Lin Zexu was a 19th-century Chinese official
who led a campaign against opium, which ignited the Opium Wars with Britain).
Before long, however, human smuggling became a much more lucrative and brutal
trade and one that Wong considered a much bigger threat to his community. James
Goldman, a former special agent with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
who because of his tenacious pursuit of the snakeheads was called ''the
mongoose,'' told me that in the mid-1990's the smugglers were so out in the open
that everyone knew the address of one of the gangs on East Broadway. The
snakeheads regularly extorted money from undocumented workers, on top of the
money they already owed. In one case, Goldman and fellow agents discovered a
group of young Chinese men chained to an apartment wall where they awaited
ransom payments from family members.

Wong has worked as an interpreter for the police and immigration agents (he
introduced me to Goldman), but he is probably best described as a fixer, someone
to whom people in the Fujianese community come to have their problems corrected.
During one afternoon I spent with him, there was a steady flow of people, most
of whom brought small offerings of food so that by the end of the day Wong's
desk was lined with half-filled cups of tea and half-eaten pastries. A
well-dressed middle-aged woman groused to Wong that a dentist had extracted a
healthy tooth. Wong promised her that he would call the dentist, though when she
left he told me there really wasn't much he could do. (All these conversations
were in the Fujianese dialect, so Wong translated.) The weeping sister of a
woman who had recently been murdered in Brooklyn pleaded with Wong to help put
pressure on the police to solve the crime. Wong assured her that he would try to
get the press involved.

Many of the people who come to see Wong -- if not most -- have complaints about
the smugglers. One restaurateur dressed in a black leather jacket accused
snakeheads of trying to extort extra money out of his employees. A young
fresh-faced woman, her hair pulled back in a ponytail, came in with a document
from immigration informing her that she had missed the deadline to get
fingerprinted and so was no longer eligible to apply for political asylum. She
told Wong that she still owed tens of thousands of dollars to the snakeheads.
''If she's repatriated, her entire family will be in a jam,'' Wong told me
later. Wong made a call and quickly calculated there was little he could do for
her. ''She'll probably go underground,'' he told me as she left his office. But
it was the story told by the first person I met that stayed with me the most. He
was a stoop-shouldered man in his 40's with a weathered face. I had walked in at
the end of the conversation, and Wong was clearly giving instructions, to which
the man nodded in agreement. When he left, I asked what that was about. Wong
told me that the man's brother had come over from Fujian six months earlier and
had quickly fallen behind in his debt. As a result, the snakeheads had exacted
revenge, brutally assaulting the brother's wife and 12-year-old son, both of
whom were still in China. Wong had been pleading with the man to have his
brother come see him.

When Wong first learned of the assault, he had a friend in China videotape the
two in the hospital, as well as the home where they had been attacked. After the
brother-in-law left his office, Wong offered to show me the tape. It begins with
a closeup of the sister-in-law, her head completely shaved, the hospital sheets
bloodied. She has three long slash marks across her face and one along her neck,
as if the assailant, who apparently attacked with a meat cleaver, was aiming to
decapitate her. She appears to be unconscious. The boy has two long,
crisscrossing slash marks on the back of his shaved head; Wong speculated that
the assailant slashed at him as he tried to flee. The video of the home is no
less gruesome. The intruder used a ladder to enter the second floor flat, where
the floor, the wall and even the ceiling are splattered with blood.
''Coldblooded,'' Wong said.

Goldman, the former I.N.S. agent, told me that the strategy of the snakeheads
has been rather simple: ''You have to pay, and if you don't pay, there will be a
problem.''

In that conversation with his mother in October 1997, Chen learned of the debt
his family now carried. His mother, he recalled, cried, telling him that he had
to send money home or their lives would be in danger. It was a message she
delivered to Chen repeatedly over the next four years. Many Fujianese borrow the
smuggling fee from family and friends, some of whom have already carved out a
life in the U.S. But others, like Chen's family, rely on loan sharks, who can
and will exact revenge if debtors fall behind.

Chen told his mother that he didn't know where to go. She instructed him to ask
around for the employment agencies, and as soon as he hung up, he found his way
to Eldridge Street, lugging his suitcase behind him. The sidewalks are crowded
here nowadays, mostly with young men smoking cigarettes, sitting on the stoops
and chatting on cellphones, waiting to catch one of a half-dozen or so buses
lined up across the street; the buses advertise their destinations: Hartford,
Allentown/Bethlehem, Northampton. When the distance grows, the destination
becomes less specific: Ohio, Michigan, Maryland, Tennessee. The employment
agencies are cramped single-room storefronts; the employees work behind a sheet
of Plexiglas that is covered with scraps of paper organized by area codes and
giving the positions available and the wages offered. For $30 or $40, the agency
will connect job seekers with one of these positions, most of which are at
Chinese restaurants run by Fujianese.

In one three-story building alone, there are five agencies, two on the first
floor and three on the second. It was here where Chen says he first went; he was
barely able to see over the counters and was told that he was too young.
According to medical records at the time, he was 5-foot-3 and weighed 100
pounds. He was a wisp of a boy.

He then trudged to Seward Park, where he spent the next three nights sleeping on
a bench, one hand resting on his suitcase to make sure no one took it and his
head resting on a rolled-up jacket. Chen returned to the employment agencies
only to be turned away again. Dejected, he plopped onto the black metal steps on
the second landing, his head in his hand. A middle-aged man approached. Chen was
surprised when the man asked about his father. The man was from Chen's village
and had recognized him. He offered to let Chen sleep on the floor of the room he
rented and found him a job at a local garment factory cutting loose threads from
shirts. Chen earned about two cents for each piece of clothing he trimmed and
later found a bed in an apartment with eight other, mostly undocumented,
Fujianese. The women at the factory, upon hearing Chen's story, would speak
scornfully of his mother, calling her ''coldhearted.'' How could she send him
over here on his own? Chen soon became angry himself.

Chen was determined to continue his education, and so he persuaded an older man
at the factory to act as his guardian. Three months into his stay, on Jan. 9,
1998, according to school records, he enrolled at P.S. 56, the local junior high
school. Chen says that he would often nod off in class, exhausted from the late
nights cutting threads and then returning to an apartment where the men, who
worked in the restaurants, stayed up late playing mah-jongg and listening to
music.

Chen became downcast and contemplated taking his own life, but he remembered a
story that circulated in his village about an entire family who had been
murdered because the son in America got considerably behind in his payments to
the smugglers. And in his regular phone conversations with his mother, she would
often burst into tears, relating to Chen the threats from the loan sharks
because he wasn't sending enough money; she urged him to quit school so he could
earn more. Chen sent most of his pay home, and remembers one week having to
scrounge for change in his apartment to buy a dozen eggs and rice, which he
subsisted on for a week.

Chen needed to make more than the $400 to $500 a month he was earning at the
garment factory, so he persuaded one of the employment agencies to send him to a
job at a Chinese buffet restaurant in Wildwood, N.J., where he could make $800
monthly. He dropped out of school (after just a few months) and stayed in
Wildwood for nearly a year, longer than he remained at any other restaurant. His
first job was as dishwasher, but because of his small stature, he needed a crate
to stand on. It was, he says, the worst of a long list of places he worked.

There was nothing dramatic about this time, but rather a slow, grinding-away of
the senses, of the soul, like dripping water that erodes the contours of a
mountain. He was just a boy -- the other workers called him ''little brother''
-- who knew that if he didn't send money home, his parents might be assaulted
or, worse yet, killed. That is what he lived for -- or rather against: to avoid
such a calamity. So he worked 12- to-13-hour days with one day off each week. At
each restaurant, the owner housed the employees, most of whom were undocumented,
in crowded apartments, often five or six to a room. Since meals were also
provided, Chen was able to wire home almost his full paycheck. He kept many of
the remittance receipts; the first is for $800, but they soon reflect his new
earnings with amounts averaging $2,000. He traveled as far as Augusta, Ga., and
Franklin, Va., and worked in some places, like Poughkeepsie, N.Y., more than
once. Sometimes, Chen told me, he would last only a week or even a day at a new
job. Maybe it didn't pay as advertised. Or the owner just needed him to fill in
for someone who was ill. Or Chen would try to pass himself off as a cook, since
they made more money, and his ruse would quickly be discovered. One time, in
Columbus, Ohio, the owner came to pick him up at the bus station, took a look at
him and drove away. Chen called to plead with him and was told, No, you're too
young. He remembers one restaurant owner who retrieved him at the bus station
and then made a short stop at a brothel, where the young Chen waited for his new
boss amid Asian girls in lingerie. ''Oh, it smelled so good,'' he told me,
laughing.

The loneliness was the worst, he said, on the long bus rides. It was there that
all his worries would accumulate and that he would try to make sense of his
parents' decision to send him here. ''I hated them,'' he said. ''I felt like my
mom only cared about money, that she cared more about money than me.'' He would
speak to his mother regularly and assure her that everything was O.K. He didn't
want her to worry. ''After a while, we didn't have much to talk about,'' he
said. ''I told her my life had improved.'' Soon their once-lengthy conversations
became short updates, rarely lasting more than five minutes.

Chen realized that one of the best restaurant jobs was taking orders over the
phone, so he taught himself rudimentary English with a paperback book called
''Practical English for Chinese Restaurants.'' He practiced with the boss's
daughter in a town in West Virginia: she took a liking to Chen, and on one of
his days off, they went on a date to McDonald's. Toward the end, Chen made as
much as $2,900 a month as a manager.

For Chen, the three and a half years he spent in the restaurants run together.
Technically, he could have quit at any point along the way, but he knew the
repercussions for his family. ''It's slavery because the children don't have a
choice,'' says Susan Krehbiel, director of children's services for the Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service. They are pressured, Krehbiel adds, ''by both
fear and a sense of honor. They're caught up in a transnational network that is
so beyond their understanding, and they're clearly just a small piece in a much
larger drama that they have no control of.'' In the mid-90's, Krehbiel's agency
put a moratorium on placing Chinese children in foster care because the
snakeheads tracked down the foster parents in an effort to get the children back
to work.

At the Door, a refuge for wayward teenagers in New York City, the staff has in
the last few years seen an increasing number of teenagers from China who, like
Chen, came to the U.S. on their own. Hsin-Ping Wang, a Door counselor, says that
some have come in because of suicidal thoughts or because they are completely
lost and have nowhere to turn. Most, she told me, are under such pressure
because of the debt that they have completely withdrawn; they remind her of
austistic kids. One 17-year-old boy came to see her and said nothing other than
that he had come to the U.S. with his older sister. Wang tried to coax his story
out of him, but he remained silent, and after the session, he told Wang that he
felt better. She has had others who have spent the time crying. ''I think
sometimes they just need someone to witness what's happened to them,'' she said.
Most, she told me, come to see her once and then never return, mostly because of
their frenzied work schedule but also because in the end there is little she can
do for them. They have a financial bargain to maintain, and they know the
consequences if they don't.

If there is any way to measure the impact of these years on Chen, it is in
taking a look at what happened immediately afterward, once his debt was paid
off. ''You didn't have much time to think'' while working in the restaurants,
Chen told me. The experience didn't fully sink in until it was behind him.

In January 2001, he returned to New York and enrolled himself at Liberty High
School, where he performed well, achieving an 85 average. During that year, he
continued to work, in a restaurant in Manhattan, to pay off the remainder of his
debt. (By the summer, he had roughly $6,000 remaining, and so he traveled again,
to work in West Virginia.) A teacher with whom Chen had shared his story
arranged to have Chen move to Buffalo in January 2002; there, an immigration
attorney offered to assist him in obtaining legal status. Chen lived in constant
fear that he would be deported to China, where he might face imprisonment for
leaving the country illegally and where he would bring shame to his family.

There is some dispute about what happens to those who are repatriated to China,
in part because there have been so few. Last year, 540 Chinese were returned;
39,000 Chinese in the United States are currently under orders of removal,
however, and the U.S. government is now trying to get the Chinese government to
issue them travel documents. A Department of Homeland Security spokesman told
me, ''We have no reports of people who have been sent back to China being
persecuted.'' Others, though, are not so sanguine. Two years ago, Richard
Posner, a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, vacated a
deportation order for a Chinese youth because the immigration judge did not
consider the evidence -- numerous human rights reports from both U.S. and
British organizations -- that the asylum seeker might well be sent to jail or a
labor camp if returned to China. Posner was concerned that the Chinese youth
might be tortured upon his return, though he also conceded that ''the treatment
of repatriated Chinese by their government is to a considerable extent a
mystery.'' Indeed, one Chinese legal scholar I spoke with, Daniel Yu, said that
while there is a law on the books in China that calls for a short jail sentence
if a person leaves the country illegally, more than likely whatever punishment
there might be is at the discretion of local officials.

In Buffalo, Chen unknowingly wandered into the protective arms of four women: a
congressman's wife, a high-school teacher, a counselor at a runaway shelter for
young men and an immigration attorney. Each saw the same drive and melancholy in
Chen and so reached out to help him. The congressman's wife, Pat LaFalce, became
the closest. She met Chen in his early days in Buffalo when he briefly stayed at
a refugee center where she volunteered. ''He was always on edge,'' she told me.
''He always reminded me of a jack-in-the-box because he couldn't sit still.'' At
a college basketball game to which LaFalce had taken Chen, he first opened up to
her about his journey, and he shared with her that he didn't understand why his
parents sent him away and on his own. ''Why, why, why?'' he would sing. ''My
maternal instincts kicked in,'' she told me, and from that point on, LaFalce did
what she could to help Chen gain his footing.

LaFalce took Chen on outings, got him glasses and enrolled him in Grover
Cleveland High School. At the school, Mary Claire Kosek, who taught English as a
second language, remembers him as being resolute about life. ''He worked so
hard,'' she recalls. ''He was unstoppable.'' Chen entered midway through the
school year and insisted on catching up on the work he had missed.
''Sometimes,'' she said, ''he would just put his head down, and I'd ask him
what's wrong? He wouldn't say anything. You could just see it in his eyes.
Sometimes he was just so sad. I mean so sad.''

Chen found more permanent lodging at the Franciscan Center, a shelter for
runaways, where he would live for a little more than a year. In the early
months, the staff worried about him. He seemed unable to relax and kept to
himself. The other boys interpreted Chen's distance as snobbery; Chen would
sometimes chastise them for watching television and not studying, and he rarely
joined them at the movies or in the park. They would confront him: Why did he
think he was better than them? they would ask. But it was his inability to slow
down and his low spirits that most concerned Maureen Armstrong, a case manager
who is now the home's assistant director. A few weeks into Chen's stay, at 9:30
one night, Armstrong received a call at home from a staff member on duty. Chen,
she was told, had unraveled. Armstrong rushed to the shelter and found Chen
curled up in a fetal position on the floor of his room by his dresser. He was
wailing like a wounded animal. The other boys were standing in the hallway,
frozen, trying to assure Chen that it would be O.K. She could hear him, through
the sobs, telling the others they were wrong, that it wasn't going to be all
right. Armstrong got on the floor and held Chen, rocking him, urging him to take
slow, deep breaths. ''I've been a good son -- I've been a good son,'' Chen
sputtered, his nose running, his chest heaving. ''Why did they do this to me? I
hate them for making me be alone. My family, why'd they turn their back to me?''
It took Armstrong well past midnight to calm him.

The experience unnerved Armstrong. ''I've been doing this for 30 years,'' she
said, ''and I can tell you what I saw that night shook me to my core. The only
thing I could tell him was that his parents meant well, and somewhere down the
road it'll make sense. Your parents will explain it someday.''

After that, if Chen had a particularly hard day, usually because he was stressed
about his efforts to obtain legal status, Armstrong would have him sleep on the
couch in the downstairs living room so that a staff member could keep an eye on
him. The other boys, too, now felt that they understood Chen better, and they
set aside a room in the house where he could do his homework. On weeknights they
often agreed to do his chores so he could study. He would do their chores on the
weekends in return. What most weighed on Chen was his future, whether he might
be returned to China. Anne Doebler, who at the time was an attorney at the
International Institute of Buffalo, which provides services to refugees and new
immigrants, at first didn't know what to do with Chen's case or if he even had
one. Political asylum didn't appear to be an option, since he couldn't make the
claim that he had been persecuted in China. Another consideration was Special
Immigrant Juvenile status, which applies to children who enter the country by
themselves and who can't return to their families, usually because of abuse or
abandonment. But you need to be under 18, and Chen was about to celebrate his
19th birthday. Doebler considered telling Chen to disappear, to go underground;
she feared that alerting the authorities to his existence would get him
deported.

The final option was a T-Visa, which was so new it was untested; it was meant
for victims of trafficking. During the 1990's, Congress became alarmed at the
large numbers of women from the old Soviet bloc who were being brought into this
country as prostitutes, usually against their will, and so Congress passed the
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, which included relief for those who
had been subjected to sexual or labor exploitation.

Doebler thought she could make a strong argument that Chen, because of his
youth, had not come here of his volition and that once here was in debt bondage,
forced to work because of the threats to his family. What undoubtedly helped
Chen's case is that he held on to many of the receipts for the money sent back
to his family and that he held on to his immunization forms when he was briefly
enrolled in junior high school in Chinatown. It was evidence that he entered
this country at age 14. Since Chen's case, I've learned of two other Fujianese
emigres, both girls, both sent to this country under similar circumstances, who
have received T-Visas. (Only 652 T-Visas have been issued.) Suzanne Tomatore,
the lawyer for one of those girls, told me that until she met Chen, who had come
to her for assistance renewing his work permit, and heard his story, she would
have considered his situation smuggling. ''It's one of those things where you
know something wrong happened,'' said Tomatore, who is the director of the
Immigrant Women and Children Project at the New York City Bar Association. ''The
biggest factor is that a child doesn't have the capacity to make that decision''
to emigrate. Tomatore said that, in fact, before she met Chen, a youngster who
had a similar story approached her for help, and she went back and forth about
how best to assist him. In the end, he was too terrified of the snakeheads -- he
was still paying off his debt -- to fully cooperate and eventually drifted away.
With his T-Visa, Chen would be eligible to become a permanent resident, the
first step toward citizenship.

Chen graduated seventh in his class at Grover Cleveland and won a couple of
small scholarships to attend the University at Buffalo, where he completed his
freshman year. Then, suddenly, he decided to return to New York City. He says it
was in part because he missed being around other Chinese, but he had some
Chinese friends in Buffalo, including for a while a Chinese girlfriend. I once
asked him why he felt compelled to keep moving. ''It's just life,'' he said.
''You have to survive.''

Pat LaFalce remembers getting a call from Chen, asking if she could pick him up
at a restaurant where he was working part time. When she got there, he had a
suitcase, and she realized this was it, he was on the go again. Chen asked her
to drop him off at the house of a friend, and so she did, leaving him on the
stoop of his friend's house, where he sat to wait for his ride to the bus
terminal. For a moment, LaFalce sat in the car looking at Chen. ''His expression
turned very dark,'' she remembers. ''His eyes were darting back and forth, back
and forth. Just for a minute I thought about getting out of the car and telling
him he was a wonderful example, but I thought, It's just going to make him very
uncomfortable. I knew I might not see him again. So I just kind of waved, and he
kind of waved back.'' Chen talks of LaFalce, who, when he entered college, gave
him the computer I saw in his room, as one of the most important people in his
life, but with the exception of a couple of phone calls and e-mail messages, he
has not been in touch. Chen has learned not to look back.

During my last visit with Chen, we walked to the park where he would
occasionally come to have a catch with himself. We sat on a bench, the
late-afternoon March sun warming us. Chen seemed preoccupied. At one point, he
rested his head on the bench's cement support, his eyes closed, his mind
elsewhere. He told me that he was trying to arrange to have his parents come to
the U.S., which as a trafficking victim he is permitted to do. He wasn't sure if
they would choose to stay or just visit, but he was clearly looking forward to
seeing them again. In our conversations, he told me he had come to forgive them.
He had come to understand their actions this way: they had honored him by
sending him to the U.S.; they had put their trust in him. What if, he said, he
had come here and didn't work? What if he was lazy? What if he joined the gangs?
They thought enough of him, he told me, to send him on his own, knowing that it
was on his shoulders to earn enough money to repay the smugglers' debt. ''They
trusted me,'' he said. It seemed only natural that a child would look for ways
to explain that which didn't make sense, especially when it comes to the people
he loves most.

But it wasn't this revelation that most surprised me that afternoon. Rather, it
was the news that he had left his job at the New York Asian Women's Center,
where he had been for nearly a year and where his supervisor had told me she
treasured his uncanny ability to connect with the clients. ''It was too
depressing,'' Chen told me. One incident in particular had unsettled him. The
teenage son of a woman staying at the center's shelter had been acting out, and
Chen was appointed to ask him to leave. The boy was apparently depressed and
angry, and Chen talked with him one on one in their Fujianese dialect; a
co-worker of Chen's remembers the boy bursting into tears. Chen saw himself in
that boy, and he told me that he did all he could to keep from crying himself.
He also said that the job didn't pay enough and that he needed to earn money to
pay his parents' way here. It was then that he mentioned that he planned to
return to restaurant work. He figured he could make good money there since his
expenses would be kept to a minimum.

Chen, I had come to learn, can be hard on himself. Once, walking through his
neighborhood in Flushing, he told me: ''I feel like I'm in between, that I'm
stuck in the middle. I don't feel like I'm like a peasant who came to the
UnitedStates to work in the restaurants. And I don't feel like one of those
people who are really smart and can interact with regular Americans. The reality
is, I started late. I have too many problems that distract me. My loneliness. I
don't have a support network. That's the main problem, I feel lonely.''

Trying to boost his spirits, I said, ''You've had a remarkable life.'' To which
Chen replied: ''I prefer not to have it. I wish I was still a child. I wouldn't
have to think very much.''

The last time I spoke with Chen, he wasin Pennsylvania working at a restaurant.
While we were on the phone, he asked me if I could go on the Internet to find
the phone number for the admissions office at Stony Brook University. He told me
that he wanted to inquire about financial aid. A week back on the restaurant
circuit, and Chen was thinking about his next move.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawings: (Drawings by Vania Zouravliov)
DOROTHY HAMILL: RICH: Winner of an Olympic gold medal in figure skating in 1976
at age 19. ''Money is very evil,'' she says two years later. Owner of the Ice
Capades for two years, she sold it to Pat Robertson.
 POOR: Declares bankruptcy in 1996. (Drawing by James Taylor)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 30, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For a Smuggling Victim, a Precarious Quest for Refuge

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1139 words


No one disputes that at 15, Ana Cristibel Sandoval was a victim of abuse and
human trafficking, first by her family in her native Honduras, then by smugglers
who drugged, raped and held her captive in a house in Phoenix in 2002.

But in the four years since the police found her there, one arm of the federal
government has treated her as a traumatized teenager in need of care and refuge,
while another arm keeps trying to deport her.

As immigration enforcement grows more aggressive, the case of Ms. Sandoval, now
19 and living in Freeport, N.Y., with her infant son, is in some ways typical of
the government's conflict over how to handle the 5,000 unaccompanied minors
apprehended in the United States each year.

But it took on unusual drama on Thursday, as the larger tug of war between the
Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Homeland Security
played out in a windowless immigration office in Lower Manhattan.

After Ms. Sandoval, carrying her baby, reported to the office at 10 a.m. for
what officials had called ''a redetermination of her custody conditions,''
immigration officers insisted that they had to send her that same day to
immigration detention in Phoenix.

The baby would have to stay behind, they said, according to Ms. Sandoval's
volunteer lawyer, Andrew D. Morton of Latham & Watkins in Washington, who was
with her all day and described events in cellphone calls and e-mail messages as
they unfolded. He said officers demanded that Ms. Sandoval call her boyfriend, a
construction worker, to pick up Jason, who is 5 months old.

''I told them: 'She's not calling anyone. She's not going anywhere,' '' Mr.
Morton said midway through a daylong battle that marshaled his law firm's
influential contacts to keep Ms. Sandoval in New York with her child. In the
end, however, her long-term situation was still precarious, suspended between
the forces of law enforcement and child welfare.

Months after the police found her, bound and gagged, in the smugglers' house,
the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement, part of Health and Human Services,
arranged for her to be transferred from detention in February 2003 and treated
for post-traumatic stress disorder and depression at juvenile centers in Texas
and in Massachusetts, records show.

A family court judge in Massachusetts ruled last year that she had been abused,
abandoned or neglected and that it would not be in her best interests to be
returned to Honduras. That seemed to pave the way for her to seek a special
juvenile visa, or green card.

But officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement have battled Ms. Sandoval's
lawyers at every step of her four-year legal struggle for permanent refuge in
the United States. The crux of the government's case now, according to briefs
filed at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco, is that Ms.
Sandoval had no right to seek a juvenile green card without the prior consent of
the Department of Homeland Security or the attorney general.

Patricia Vroom, the chief counsel handling the litigation for Homeland Security
in Phoenix, said yesterday that she was not authorized to talk about the case.
She referred questions to Russell Ahr, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, who said it was against the agency's policy to discuss it.

In the past, Homeland Security officials have argued that national security
demands a law enforcement approach to illegal immigrants, regardless of their
ages. In 2003, Congress passed a measure giving Health and Human Services
responsibility for placing unaccompanied minors. But friction over the
interpretation of the law has grown as a new influx of volunteer lawyers from
corporate firms rallies to cases like Ms. Sandoval's, challenging government
lawyers who are under pressure to win deportation cases.

On Thursday, Ms. Sandoval's deportation officer, Ricardo Perez, had seemed
sympathetic to her, Mr. Morton said, telling him that if it were up to the New
York office, she would be allowed to stay in Freeport and simply be required to
report back periodically under an order of supervision.

''But they say Phoenix is calling the shots,'' the lawyer reported in a call
late Thursday afternoon.

As Ms. Sandoval cried and rocked her baby, Mr. Morton demanded to speak to
supervisors and sent frantic e-mail messages from his BlackBerry to colleagues
and contacts. Calls ricocheted through the offices of congressmen and senators.
Inquiries for this article alerted Dean Boyd, the press secretary for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Washington, and Mark Thorn, the agency's
spokesman in New York.

Just what turned the tide remains a mystery. But about 6 p.m., Mr. Perez, the
deportation officer, returned with news. As Mr. Morton told it, Mr. Perez said,
''I don't know who you know, but they changed their minds.''

It was dark when Ms. Sandoval emerged from 26 Federal Plaza, happy to be going
home with her baby under an order of supervision.

''They wanted to separate me from Jason,'' she said through a translator
yesterday. ''They wanted to send me to Phoenix. But my lawyer wouldn't let that
happen.''

Still, she is frightened. ''I'm afraid that they'll deport me,'' she said. ''I
have no one in my country; my mom is dead. I don't want to see my father. He
used to beat me.''

In a 2005 letter in Ms. Sandoval's court file, Theresa M. Rhein, a clinical
social worker who treated her at a residential treatment center in Attleboro,
Mass., described her as ''very likeable, warm and engaging'' and ''very
motivated to succeed in school.''

She warned, though, that because of the life-threatening abuse the teenager
experienced at the hands of the smugglers, she was afraid to be alone and had
flashbacks, nightmares and suicidal thoughts that were often set off when she
felt powerless and overwhelmed.

''Ana does not have any family connection and wants very much to be in a loving
relationship,'' the therapist wrote. ''This puts Ana at very high risk for
placing her trust in someone who may hurt or manipulate her.''

According to court documents, Ms. Sandoval's family, for its own financial gain,
hired smugglers to bring her to the United States. Those smugglers passed her in
Mexico to others who took her to Phoenix and who are now in prison.

When she turned 18, Ms. Sandoval said, and was too old to live in her group home
in Massachusetts, she called the brother of a Honduran woman friend for help.
The brother, 32, whom she had never met, drove from New York to fetch her and
bring her to his home. He became her boyfriend and is Jason's father, and they
live together in a small apartment in an industrial area of Freeport, on Long
Island.

''I don't really have friends,'' she said yesterday. ''I don't go out very much,
because I'm afraid immigration will pick me up.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ana Cristibel Sandoval, with her 5-month-old son, Jason, got
caught in a tug of war between departments of the United States government.
(Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  South: Louisiana: Human Trafficking

BYLINE: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 87 words


Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales announced an expansion of efforts to fight
human trafficking. Speaking at a conference in New Orleans, Mr. Gonzales said
the government would increase financing for prosecuting commercial slave traders
by $8 million and build up a trafficking task force on the issue to 42 members
from 32. Some of the money will be used to ''put a stop to the exploitation and
abuse of laborers'' brought into the New Orleans area by traffickers to work in
rebuilding after Hurricane Katrina last year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Cuba: Man Killed In Attack On Smugglers' Speedboat

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 71 words


Coast guard officers fired on three men in a speeding boat who they suspected
were migrant smugglers, and the authorities detained 39 people suspected of
preparing to illegally abandon the country. One of the three was killed, the
official newspaper Granma reported. The boat was registered to a Cuban-American
man, and the two surviving crewmen were carrying American passports, the
newspaper reported.   GINGER THOMPSON (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 20, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hazy Days of Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 453 words


Washington's immigration debate is stuck in the political doldrums, becalmed and
hot, going nowhere. The hard task of making policy has been set aside for a
summer of theater.

Hearings called by the House and Senate to examine the issue have no actual
purpose except to promote visions of the immigrants as action figures of either
incredible virtue or inestimable villainy. On the Senate side, the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Peter Pace, choked up when recalling the
struggles of his father, who came from Italy. Meanwhile, in San Diego and
Laredo, Tex., sheriffs summoned to hearings by House Republican leaders spun
haunting stories of faux-Mexican Al Qaeda beasts lurking below the border.

In Washington, there is no hint of compromise. The feeling grows that any hope
of an immigration overhaul is dead for the year.

Except in the states, where legislatures and city governments doggedly propose
or enact laws to control their small patches of the immigration battleground.
Most veer toward harshness, to milk anti-immigrant passions. The mayor of Avon
Park, Fla., concocts a decree that people may rent homes only to duly proven
legal residents, or face stringent fines. He says he got the idea from the mayor
of Hazleton, Pa., who got it from San Bernardino, Calif.

Colorado moves to cut off illegal immigrants from food stamps, supplemental
security income and Medicaid, and to force businesses to prove that all their
employees have papers. In Suffolk County, N.Y., Executive Steve Levy proposes a
similar employee-verification law.

Certainly, companies should not be allowed to flout the law and exploit
immigrants. But the states' and cities' strenuous exertions do not add up to
serious reform. They do nothing to impose order or consistency where it's
needed: at the federal level.

The status quo -- localities running wild in a federal vacuum, hidden
communities of fearful immigrants bracing for the worst, immigrant-dependent
businesses unwilling and unable to get right with the law -- is a parody of
sensible governing. Returning to lawfulness and order means realizing that
security is just one part of the solution. Tapping immigrants' energies by
opening a path to legal status and eventual citizenship will reinforce the rule
of law and strengthen the nation far more than throwing money at a militarized
border.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City said it well, at a Senate hearing:
''It's as if we expect border control agents to do what a century of communism
could not: defeat the natural market forces of supply and demand and defeat the
natural human desire for freedom and opportunity. You might as well sit on your
beach chair and tell the tide not to come in.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Woven Into America

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 199 words



To the Editor:

I am a proud United States citizen of Honduran background and would like to
express my support to the various immigrant communities of this wonderful nation
of ours.

I am a full supporter and advocate for the legalization of hard-working people.

The United States has always been a leader of social rights worldwide. This
issue is about the future of our country.

It is also an issue that affects some of our closest allies and friends.

Many of us immigrants don't want to feel that our country and our fellow
Americans are leaving us in the shadows of American society.

The best way to solidify the social and economic structure of a strong nation is
by including millions of its hard-working, contributing participants into the
civic life of their adopted country.

My family and I vote on this issue. It is among the most important issues that
we and millions of Americans identify with.

The world is watching for the next revolutionary idea of the United States.

Show leadership and compassion. Show American ingenuity. Demonstrate how
American society is accepting and welcoming.

Put our values to the test, and uphold them firmly.

Jose L. Flores
Miami, April 2, 2006


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randy Jones)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Woven Into America

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 214 words



To the Editor:

Re ''An Immigration Debate Shaped by Family Ties'' (front page, April 4):

I write to add my family story to those of the senators debating immigration
legislation. I, too, am a first-generation American, but of
Hungarian-Czechoslovak parentage. My father arrived in (God bless) America -- as
a child I always heard those words whenever ''America'' was mentioned -- shortly
before World War II on a visitor's visa.

He was making his way to Palestine, but his two brothers, already American
citizens, could not let him go. So he became an illegal alien. When he was able
to legitimize his status, he applied for and became an American citizen. He was
a productive, taxpaying citizen who never missed casting his vote until the day
he died at age 90. My mother, according to family lore, arrived here on the
final voyage of the Normandy before it became a troopship.

But for America, my brothers and I would have probably perished, as my
grandparents and numerous aunts, uncles and cousins did at Auschwitz and other
death camps.

In my view, immigrants and their progeny have been the backbone of our free
society. ''God bless America'' are not empty words for me.

Stella Schindler
New York, April 4, 2006

The writer is a retired judge in the New York City family courts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 56 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Blame and Uncertainty as Immigration Deal Fails'' (front page, April 8):

Does anyone else find it mesmerizing that the party in power, holding majorities
in both the House and the Senate, as well as the executive office, continues to
blame the other for its own shortcomings?

Jim Hauschultz
Kirkwood, Mo., April 8, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Strategy Sessions Fueled Immigrant Marches

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Reporting for this article was contributed by
Brenda Goodman in Atlanta, Colin Moynihan in New York, Rachel L. Swarns in
Washington and Katie Zezima in Boston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1205 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 11


Meeting in February at a convention center in Riverside, Calif., some 600 Latino
immigrant advocates from across the country tossed around ideas about how to
defeat what they considered anti-immigrant legislation in Congress.

The advocates cheered denunciations of Representative F. James Sensenbrenner
Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, who sponsored a bill that would make being an
illegal immigrant a felony and would criminalize the providing of aid to people
living in this country illegally.

They also vowed to take their anger to the streets, setting a date of March 25
for what would turn out to be the largest protest in recent weeks, more than
500,000 people in downtown Los Angeles, and promising months of other
demonstrations.

''I said this is the time for us to have an organizing contagion,'' said Armando
Navarro, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California,
Riverside, who helped organize the February session.

The Riverside meeting was one of many that gave birth to a wave of
demonstrations that is still playing out nationwide.

Soon afterward, grass-roots groups and members of the clergy, many heeding a
call to action from leaders of the Roman Catholic Church, reached out for
organizing and political muscle.

They contacted labor groups, including the Service Employees International
Union, whose membership of janitors, security guards and others includes large
numbers of immigrants.

Through e-mail messages, phone calls, word of mouth, and coverage in ethnic and
mainstream news media, the loose network has shared tactics and developed an ad
hoc blueprint repeated from Fresno, Calif., to Omaha to Atlanta: engage
Spanish-language radio DJ's, who reach millions; place leaflets in churches; and
buttonhole members of Latin American soccer leagues.

There are now unified chants like ''Today we march, tomorrow we vote'' added to
chestnuts from the civil rights era and reflecting an urge for a longer-lasting
mark.

Buoyed by a string of major protests in early March, they arranged a conference
call and set the stage for Monday's round, in which hundreds of thousands of
demonstrators marched in more than 100 cities.

Some organizers are now planning a ''day without an immigrant'' on May 1,
International Workers Day. Others are planning rallies and other events.

Leaders said they had developed coalitions that had set aside differences among
immigrant groups for what they regarded as an important galvanizing issue.

The leaders have taken heart in the breadth of the protests and their locations
in places like Birmingham, Ala., and other parts of the South where Latino
political awakening is occurring after more than a decade of surging Hispanic
growth.

''About two weeks ago, we called a meeting in which we included the radio
stations, members of the Catholic Church, the newspapers, the directors of the
soccer leagues,'' said Sigfredo Rubio, 34, a student at Cumberland School of Law
in Birmingham, where a few thousand people protested Monday.

With ''the first meeting of 15 people,'' Mr. Rubio said, ''we had a connection
with a couple of thousand, just through those groups.''

''It just grew,'' he added.

The snowball effect helps to explain why so many people in such an array of
places have taken part.

''There was definitely a turning point on this one where as people saw the
events that took place in Chicago, L.A. and elsewhere, that inspired and
empowered people in way I haven't seen before,'' said Darcy Tromanhauser of the
Nebraska Appleseed Center for Law in the Public Interest, which helped organize
rallies in Omaha and Lincoln that drew several thousand people.

Organizers focused on two events, the March 25 rally and demonstrations on
Monday in downtown Los Angeles, the San Fernando Valley and Santa Ana, a heavily
Latino working-class city 30 miles south of Los Angeles.

The March 25 demonstration was largely the work of an umbrella group of
immigrant rights and community groups calling itself the March 25 Coalition. The
coalition is taking the lead in promoting a nationwide boycott for May 1, asking
immigrants not to work, shop or go to school.

Members of the New American Opportunity Campaign, a group of 60 immigrant rights
organizations based in Washington, and other advocates met in Chicago on March
16 and 17 and held a series of conference calls to decide how to make a larger
statement than the local protests.

Organizers decided to hold a wave of rallies this week while members of Congress
were in their home districts on a recess.

They urged members to include appeals to vote, to wave American flags and to
emphasize the need for changes in immigration law that would lead to
citizenship.

''We are a powerful community,'' said Angelica Salas, executive director of the
Coalition for Humane Immigrants Rights in Los Angeles, an organizer of Monday's
demonstration.

''These are immigrants and their families, many of them U.S. citizens, having a
voice in this process,'' Ms. Salas said.

She said her group and others would not participate in the May 1 boycott out of
concerns that it could jeopardize immigrants' jobs and because they did not
think that children should stay home from school.

Another important organizer in recent Los Angeles demonstrations, the Central
American Resource Center, said it probably would abstain from the boycott.

''Some boycotts have proved successful in the past, but it would be hard to
measure how successful a one day boycott is,'' said Stephanie Kotin, a
spokeswoman for the organization.

Her group and others are focused on broadening the range of participants in the
street protests. In Los Angeles, advocates of Korean immigrant rights took part
in the march on Monday, and organizers enlisted an appearance by Bruce Gordon,
the president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People,
in a fledgling effort to draw more black support.

The Service Employees union played a large role in many of the demonstrations on
Monday, including one in New York, where union members acted after witnessing a
rally last month in Washington.

''I saw people coming from all over Washington, working people coming from all
over the place,'' said Rhadames Rivera, a vice president of Local 1199 of the
Service Employees union in New York, one of the lead organizers of Monday's
demonstration. ''They were so enthusiastic. People were getting out of work
going to the rally and marching. It was very inspiring.''

Mike Garcia, of Local 1877 of the S.E.I.U. in Los Angeles, said that apart from
organizing prowess the unions brought credibility to the demonstrations, making
it safe for politicians and other community leaders to participate with
grass-roots groups they knew little about.

''We make sure these organizations are stable and respected players,'' he said.

Professor Navarro said he was pleased with the results. He echoed the sentiments
of other protest leaders in declaring a movement at hand that has raised
awareness of the immigration issue.

''The idea we were a sleeping giant, sitting under a cactus saying manana, is
gone,'' Professor Navarro said. ''This is a community showing conviction and
power. It is not a passive community.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters demanding changes in immigration laws held candles
after marching last night in Los Angeles. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Lobbyists Call For Action on Immigration

BYLINE: By KATE PHILLIPS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1127 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14


As Democrats and Republicans remain at an impasse over immigration proposals,
business lobbies and trade groups have turned to their grass-roots partners to
put hometown pressure on lawmakers during the two-week Congressional recess.

Lobbyists representing small and big businesses, who had staked out the Senate
night and day and had flown in produce growers by the hundreds in recent months
for rallies and meetings with lawmakers, were disappointed over the failure of a
deal in the Senate that would have put millions of illegal immigrants on a path
to citizenship. Now the trade groups plan a concerted push in the days after the
Easter holiday to contact lawmakers as they tour their home states.

''We've sent out alerts to all of our members asking them to contact them, to
try to get in to see them in their local offices and to send them a message that
we want something done immediately once Congress gets back in session,'' said
Tom Nassif, president of Western Growers, an association of about 3,000 members
in the fruit and vegetable industry in California and Arizona.

John F. Gay, co-chairman of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition
representing hotel, service and trade industries, said he and others were
promoting the deal offered by Senators Mel Martinez of Florida and Chuck Hagel
of Nebraska, both Republicans, for a tiered system to citizenship.

''I think everyone in the coalition is getting word out to their membership that
it's important that they contact their senators and let them know that the
compromise that was struck is alive and well, is a good deal and should be
supported,'' said Mr. Gay, a senior vice president for the National Restaurant
Association.

The expansive pro-immigrant rallies nationwide in recent weeks have buoyed
positions staked out by business, with some officials also noting the softening
of stances by lawmakers like Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority
leader, and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, both of whom backed strong
border security measures but have since indicated they were willing to seek some
compromise.

The United States Chamber of Commerce, with three million members, has kept
close tabs on the House and Senate leadership, while other groups watch for
inroads among those House members who are rethinking their support of a tougher
border security bill that passed in December and that has galvanized protesters
and energized anti-immigrant groups.

Some trade groups have taken notice by deciding not to donate to politicians who
oppose their positions. Craig J. Regelbrugge, senior director of government
relations for the American Nursery and Landscape Association, which represents
one of the fastest-growing segments in the agricultural industry, said: ''Some
Republican lawmakers who have been supportive of a business agenda are
supporting legislation that will severely harm or destroy the industry. Our own
leadership has basically said that this issue is so fundamental that we need to
be supporting people who are at least showing an openness toward a comprehensive
approach.''

Others have not crossed that bridge. Sharon M. Hughes, executive vice president
of the National Council of Agricultural Employers, said she was arranging for
various growers to attend sessions in places like Citrus and Pascoe Counties in
Florida, where Senator Bill Nelson, a Democrat, planned to be, and meet with key
senators like John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, and Senator Larry E. Craig,
Republican of Idaho.

''As much lobbying as I can do here in D.C,'' Ms. Hughes said, ''one visit's
worth a hundred of mine.''

In Arizona, the state's Chamber of Commerce sponsored a breakfast earlier this
week with a Republican congressman, Jeff Flake, in Phoenix, and immigration was
one of the hottest topics. Mr. Flake voted for the tough border security bill in
the House, although he has long favored a guest worker program and was stymied
in his efforts to offer an amendment along those lines.

Businesses in Arizona have long felt the acute tensions between border security
and some type of temporary worker program. Farrell Quinlan, a chamber vice
president, boasted that his state's delegation in Congress, led by Republican
Senators John McCain and Jon Kyl, needed little prodding.

''There's a pretty broad consensus that this is the year we should tackle the
issue,'' Mr. Quinlan said. ''Do we want to see a wall or a fence go up on the
border? I don't know. If that's what it takes to get a guest worker program
right now, then that might be the price to pay.''

To the national Chamber of Commerce, the Senate has no choice but to resume
negotiations over immigration once it returns to Washington on April 24, said
Randel K. Johnson, vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits.

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, has indicated he might hold hearings this month.

''I do think they'll resurrect it,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''I think just to have it
hanging out there unresolved, the way that it was unresolved, it makes the
Senate look poorly in general.''

In addition to guest worker proposals, business groups worry about proposals
that require employers to verify a worker's legal status, because they would
face sanctions for noncompliance.

Citing government estimates of high error rates in a pilot program that checks
workers' documents, the chamber issued an internal document estimating that if
some current plans were adopted, such a program could cost $11.7 billion for
government, employees and workers. It urged that money from the Department of
Homeland Security be spent to overhaul those trouble-ridden databases that check
driver's licenses and Social Security numbers.

''The employer community is not the document-forgery experts in the country, nor
should they be asked to be,'' said R. Bruce Josten, executive vice president of
the United States Chamber of Commerce.

Because the databases are fraught with errors, Mr. Josten said employers should
not be penalized until the system is fixed. ''I don't know how you hold the
business community responsible for that,'' he said. ''The government's got the
responsibility to fix that problem.''

From database checks to tighter border security, lawmakers have repeatedly
invoked national security to support positions for more restrictive immigration
measures. To Ms. Hughes of the council of agricultural employers, the issue of
national security also plays out on the lettuce and produce fields.

If restrictive immigration laws force production over the border, she said, ''we
will be importing all of our food,'' adding, ''If you care about national
security, you should care about a domestic food supply.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Day the Immigrants Spoke Up

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 110 words



To the Editor:

Re ''They Are America'' (editorial, May 2) :

Apparently, your position is that anyone anywhere in the world who wants to can
cross our borders illegally and be entitled to citizenship.

It also appears that you oppose programs allowing Mexicans and others from Latin
America to come here as guest workers and to return to their own countries at
the end of a year.

If Congress took your advice and offered citizenship to the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States, and another 11 million entered over the
next 20 years to take their place, would they be entitled to citizenship as
well?

Edward I. Koch
New York, May 2, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, the President's Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 140 words



To the Editor:

In an attempt to straddle both sides of the immigration debate, the president's
proposals failed to please advocates of the punitive approach and the
humanitarian approach.

Critical responses to the proposals from conservatives and liberals alike were
not unexpected; if consensus existed, reforms would have been enacted years ago.

Meanwhile, we can only hope that the president and Congress will agree on a
partial solution that will create a guest worker program and allow some of the
11 million illegal immigrants to become legal residents and ultimately citizens.

While it may not totally satisfy everyone, it will be an important first step in
arriving at a more far-reaching solution.

As for the use of up to 6,000 National Guard troops, may the ill-conceived idea
rest in peace.

Cy Shain
San Francisco, May 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Other Voices On Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 60 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Divisions Remain as Bush Presses on Immigration'' (front page, May 17):

If an immigration bill eventually reaches the desk of the president, which parts
that he dislikes will George W. Bush claim are matters dealing with national
security and thus nullify them with another of his ''signing statements''?

Burton Albert
Avon, Conn., May 17, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Passes a Bill That Favors English

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 827 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18


The Senate voted on Thursday to designate English as the national language. In a
charged debate, Republican backers of the proposal, which was added to the
Senate's immigration measure on a 63-to-34 vote, said that it was equivalent to
establishing a formal national anthem or motto and that it would simply affirm
the pre-eminence of English without overturning laws or rules on bilingualism.

''We're free to say what we want, speak what we want, but it is our national
language,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. The amendment
was proposed by Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma.

It is not clear, though, that the measure will be included in any final bill
after negotiations with the House. Shortly after the Inhofe amendment was
approved, the Senate also approved a weaker, less-binding alternative declaring
English the ''common and unifying'' language of the nation, on a 58-to-39 vote.
The question of which version survives would be decided in negotiations with the
House.

The second amendment was proposed by Senator Ken Salazar of Colorado, one of
several Democrats who said the Inhofe measure was needlessly divisive and would
reduce multilingual government programs.

''We are taking a step backward from the progress America has made,'' Mr.
Salazar said.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, said the Inhofe amendment
was racist.

''Everybody who speaks with an accent knows that they need to learn English just
as fast as they can,'' he said.

Under the Inhofe proposal, the federal government is directed to ''preserve and
enhance the role of English as the national language of the United States of
America.'' It does not go as far as proposals to designate English the nation's
official language, which would require all government publications and business
to be in English.

Instead, it says government services and publications now offered in other
languages would be unaffected. But the proposal declares that no one has ''a
right, entitlement or claim to have the government of the United States or any
of its officials or representatives act, communicate, perform or provide
services or provide materials in any language other than English.''

Critics said they fear the directive could lead government agencies to scale
back their bilingual efforts, cause discrimination against people who do not
speak English, disrupt emergency operations in communities with populations of
immigrants and have other unintended consequences.

Mr. Inhofe, who is proficient in Spanish from his days as a pilot in Mexico,
said critics were exaggerating the potential effects of his plan. His plan would
also stiffen the language rules for immigrants seeking to qualify for
citizenship under the new legislation, requiring them to demonstrate English
proficiency and understanding of American history and government rather than
simply to enroll in a language class.

President Bush, speaking about immigration on Thursday on a trip to Arizona,
reiterated that under his proposal illegal immigrants would have to learn
English. ''If you learn English, and you're a hard worker, and you have a dream,
you have the capacity from going from picking crops to owning the store, or from
sweeping office floors to being an office manager,'' Mr. Bush said.

The House did not include a similar provision on English in the legislation it
passed in December, but there is strong support among House Republicans for such
a move.

Despite the clash over language, advocates of a broad immigration measure
combining border protection with the possibility of citizenship for qualifying
illegal immigrants successfully fought off repeated efforts to alter the
measure.

In a crucial showdown, the Senate voted, 58 to 35, late Thursday to reject an
amendment that authors of the legislation said would gut their bill by
prohibiting temporary workers and many illegal immigrants from seeking permanent
residency.

The Senate reversed a decision it made on Wednesday about how temporary workers
could apply for permanent residency. The Senate initially voted to require that
such applications come just from employers. But some senators said they had
misgivings that the requirement would give employers too much power over
workers. On Thursday, senators voted to give workers the ability to apply for
permanent residency on their own if they have been working in the country for at
least four years.

The Senate retained a requirement that a green card be granted only if the Labor
Department certified a need for workers.

Immigrant groups praised the reversal. But some advocates for immigrants
retained grave concerns about the emerging legislation.

Mary Bauer, director of the immigrant justice project at the Southern Poverty
Law Center, said immigrants who participated in existing guest worker programs
were frequently exploited. She said the programs failed to ensure that employers
offered fair pay and housing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Press One for English

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 404 words


The immigration debate in Congress has hit several low points of mean-spirited
dimness, and could go lower still, but on Thursday it came pretty close to rock
bottom. By a vote of 63 to 34, the Senate tacked onto its immigration bill an
amendment from Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma that declares English to be
''the national language of the United States.'' If you thought otherwise, or
weren't sure, well, now you know: We speak English here. None of that ''Oprima
numero dos.''

If the amendment merely stated the achingly obvious, it might be nothing to get
upset about. Senator Ken Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, offered an amendment
asserting, nonbindingly, that English is the language that unites us all. That
one was passed, too. But Mr. Inhofe and his allies weren't looking to make a
statement about our shared heritage.

They made another point -- one that is exclusionary, potentially discriminatory
and embarrassingly hostile to the rest of the world.

''Unless otherwise authorized or provided by law,'' the Inhofe amendment says,
''no person has a right, entitlement or claim to have the government of the
United States or any of its officials or representatives act, communicate,
perform or provide services, or provide materials in any language other than
English.'' It goes on to insist that new citizens be tested for knowledge of
English and of certain pillars of American civics, like the Federalist Papers
and ''The Star-Spangled Banner.''

People who struggle with the language don't need to be told how important
English fluency is in America. If Mr. Inhofe wanted to lavish federal money on
English-language classes, now overwhelmed with immigrants on waiting lists, such
a step would do more to advance the cause of English and assimilation than any
xenophobic amendment.

Mr. Inhofe flubbed the national anthem a little in the Senate debate (it's ''our
flag'' that was still there, not ''the flag''). And he would have done well to
require knowledge of other important aspects of American history, too, like the
Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, the anti-Catholic Know-Nothing movement and the
Ku Klux Klan.

This country has always come to regret official actions that exclude and
alienate large populations of newcomers. It has never stood prouder than when it
greeted them with openness and confidence, in the spirit behind the motto ''E
pluribus unum.'' Sorry -- make that ''Out of many, one.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 50 words


A front-page article on Thursday about a federal plan to use contractors to help
secure the borders of the United States misstated the amount that Lockheed
Martin made in federal government sales in 2005. Of $37.2 billion in sales, more
than $31 billion, not $6 billion, was in sales to the government.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Many Paths on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 136 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Press One for English'' (editorial, May 20):

Senator James Inhofe's ''English only'' amendment to the immigration bill is a
punitive response to a genuine need.

Immigrants cannot simply be mandated to speak and write English. They need
teachers and tutors to help them do so.

My wife and I have each tutored Hispanics as volunteers with the Learning Center
operated by the hospital workers' union (1199). We know how urgently they want
to learn our language and how hard they are prepared to work toward that goal.

We know, too, that there is too little access to teachers and tutors of English
as a second language.

A modest federal initiative, possibly supported by state programs, could expand
this access and help smooth the road to citizenship.

David S. Wachsman
New York, May 20, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Amnesty, Not a Bad Word

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 78 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Failed Amnesty Legislation of 1986 Haunts the Current Immigration Bills in
Congress'' (news article, May 23):

It is easy for those born in the United States to dismiss the 1986 legislation
as a failure.

It was hardly a failure for the 1.7 million people, including me, who were
granted amnesty (not a dirty word back then) and set on the path to citizenship.

So, a partial failure, maybe; a total failure, no way.

Peter Franck
New York, May 23, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Bill Would Fully Reopen Statue

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 102 words


A bill to fully open the Statue of Liberty to tourists was passed by the Senate
yesterday in Washington as an amendment to its immigration bill. The House has
passed its own immigration bill, and the House and Senate are to meet to hammer
out a compromise. The Statue of Liberty proposal would require the National Park
Service to give access to the crown within 60 days after a compromise bill
becomes law. The statue and Liberty Island were closed to tourists after the
9/11 attacks. Since August 2004, however, visitors have been able to enter the
pedestal but not the statue's interior.    JENNIFER 8. LEE (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Building a Country

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 115 words



To the Editor:

Re ''A Build-a-Protest Approach to Immigration'' (news article, May 31):

The anti-immigration protesters described in your article have an awful lot of
faith in bricks.

Do they really think that a wall will stop those drawn to the promise of freedom
and opportunity this country offers to the world?

I'm a third-generation American, and like Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales,
I don't know all the legal details about how my grandparents got here. But I do
know that they worked very hard, paid their taxes and raised a son who served
his country.

Americans being against immigration is like a house being against its bricks.

Andrew Massimino
Carrboro, N.C., May 31, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Fore on Immigration, Senator Has a Story to Tell

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 948 words

DATELINE: DENVER, June 10


Senator Ken Salazar calls it ''the story.''

''The story of Hispanics in America has not been told,'' Mr. Salazar said in a
recent interview in his office here. ''My election and my profile in the U.S.
Senate is an opportunity to tell that story.''

If that sounds like the beginning of some genteel raconteur's tale of ethnic
America larded with all the creaking cliches about melting pots and salads,
well, you're thinking about somebody other than Mr. Salazar.

The story he tells, with greater frequency and gusto these days, to groups all
over the country and especially among Hispanics, is about power.

''There is a historic aspect to my election from Colorado to the United States
Senate, because I became the first Mexican-American in the history of our
country to ever be elected outside the state of New Mexico,'' Mr. Salazar said.
''If I can do it in Colorado, it can be done in other places, whether that's
California or Texas or Florida.''

The future of Hispanic America and the national debate over immigration, with
its focus on Mexicans working illegally in the United States, are bound
together. And they are now bound with Mr. Salazar, a 51-year-old Democrat who in
just 17 months in office has become a Senate leader on overhauling immigration
laws and an outreach specialist to Hispanic voters for the Democratic Party.

Shortly after his election in 2004, Mr. Salazar was asked by senior senators to
help lead the immigration effort. Mr. Salazar said he believed that it was
mainly his record here in Colorado as a moderate coalition builder, in addition
to his ethnicity, that made him an appealing ally. In any case, the higher
profile that came with that leadership role, he said, has given him a platform
to speak out and tell the Hispanic story as never before.

Republican leaders here in Colorado, many of whom favor a tougher stance on
illegal immigration, say that Mr. Salazar is being used by his party to energize
Hispanic voters and that liberals want to embarrass the Republicans who run
Congress by having efforts to overhaul immigration fail.

''The liberal establishment uses Senator Salazar when it's convenient,'' said
Bob Martinez, the chairman of the Republican Party in Colorado. ''But they're
still calling the shots.''

Mr. Salazar served six years as Colorado's attorney general but was not widely
known outside the state before his election to the Senate. In stepping for the
first time onto the national stage, he may already be gaining another
constituency of Hispanics around the country that will be hard to ignore in the
future.

In recent months Mr. Salazar has spoken to the League of United Latin American
Citizens and to a nationwide audience in a Spanish-language radio address on
behalf of Democrats. There have been profiles and interviews in publications
like Hispanic Today and Latino Suave.

''Whenever a Hispanic reaches that level, other Hispanics will tune in --
they're really not your constituency, but they are,'' said F. Chris Garcia, an
emeritus professor of political science and former president of the University
of New Mexico. ''To ignore that constituency is to look for trouble.''

Mr. Salazar is not an immigrant. His family roots can be traced to Spain, and
Salazars helped found Santa Fe, N.M., in the late 1500's, decades before the
Mayflower set sail. That also means, technically speaking, that he is not quite
Mexican-American, as he sometimes says, because his ancestors arrived before
there was a Mexico, or a United States, for that matter.

''It was a border that came over us,'' Mr. Salazar said. ''We didn't come over
the border.''

But he is a personal witness to ethnic bigotry, he said.

''I've been taunted, called names -- from dirty Mexican to lots of other names
-- as I was growing up, and even now as a United States senator,'' Mr. Salazar
said. ''To have that personal experience in having gone through that kind of
discrimination, it helps in terms of informing the debate and bringing a certain
sense of reality to some of the issues we are dealing with on a national
level.''

But there is also a distinct thread of ambition in Mr. Salazar's rapid rise. In
his first days in Washington last year, he chose a mentor as all freshman
senators do; he asked for one of the Senate's unquestioned powers-that-be, John
McCain, an Arizona Republican and presidential hopeful.

It was a step that few liberal Democrats would be likely to take, but one that
Mr. Salazar said felt completely natural as a moderate who had spent his entire
political career working with Republicans in Colorado.

Then Mr. McCain returned the compliment, Mr. Salazar said, and asked him to help
shepherd the Senate's immigration bill, which would strengthen the border with
Mexico and the immigration enforcement system, but would also create a mechanism
by which the nation's estimated 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants
could move toward citizenship. The House immigration plan, by contrast, creates
no track toward citizenship.

Mr. Salazar, who was also subsequently appointed to the conference committee
that will try to find a compromise between the House and Senate bills, said he
was not sure which party would eventually come out ahead. Since both are split
over how best to overhaul the laws, he said, maybe both will lose.

Inevitably, Mr. Salazar said, a politician staking out a position on an issue as
divisive as immigration will make enemies. But he said he strongly believed that
there was a center to the debate. And part of finding the center means
appreciating Americans' differences, he said -- ethnic and otherwise.

''The center, in general, has great strength,'' Mr. Salazar said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Ken Salazar spoke with agriculture officials and
addressed delegates at an American Farm Bureau event last weekend in Brighton,
Colo. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush's Immigration Plan Stalled As House G.O.P. Grew Anxious

BYLINE: This article is by Adam Nagourney, Carl Hulse and Jim Rutenberg.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24


For the White House, the Congressional picnic last week seemed like the perfect
setting to mend strained relations with Republican allies on Capitol Hill:
President Bush and his advisers eating taquitos and Mexican confetti rice on the
lawn of the White House with Republican Congressional leaders.

But moments before Mr. Bush was to welcome his guests, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert
told the president that House Republicans were effectively sidelining -- and in
the view of some Congressional aides probably killing -- what had become Mr.
Bush's signature domestic initiative of the year: an overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws.

That disappointing news for Mr. Bush signaled the apparent collapse of a
carefully orchestrated White House strategy to push a compromise immigration
bill through Congress this summer -- and in the process invigorate Mr. Bush's
second term with a badly needed domestic victory.

The decision by the House leadership to defy the president after he had put so
much prestige on the line -- including a rare prime-time Oval Office speech for
a domestic initiative -- amounted to a clear rebuke of the president on an issue
that he has long held dear.

An account of the administration's push for the initiative, based on interviews
with members of Congress and senior White House and Congressional officials,
shows that Mr. Bush's immigration measure was derailed by an overly optimistic
assessment by the White House of the prospects for building a bipartisan
coalition in support of the bill. It was also hurt by a fundamental misreading
of the depth of hostility to the measure among House Republicans.

It was undone as well, White House and Congressional leaders acknowledged, by a
sharp division over whether to focus on the short term or on the party's
long-term political prospects. Mr. Bush's aides saw the House bill, which would
make it a felony to live in this country illegally and would close off any
chance to win legal status, as a threat to their attempts to broaden the party's
appeal to Hispanic voters.

House Republican leaders saw Mr. Bush's approach -- calling for tougher
enforcement as well as avenues to legalize the illegal workforce and create a
possible path to citizenship -- as a threat to House Republicans already fearful
of losing control of this fall's elections by angering voters who viewed the
plan as amnesty.

Mr. Bush's first attempt to advocate for the measure was described even by
allies as initially muddled and tentative, permitting opponents to build a case
against it before he made his Oval Office address. Republicans' apprehensions
were cemented in June, when, in a special election for a vacant Congressional
seat in California, Brian P. Bilbray, who ran on a pledge to build a fence along
the border with Mexico, was elected after running against the president's
position on immigration.

Coming in the same week that the White House showed effectiveness in rallying
Republicans behind the war in Iraq, the setback raised questions about Mr.
Bush's chances to achieve major domestic victories from a solidly Republican
Congress. Unless a compromise is reached, it will mark the second time in two
years, after Social Security in 2005, that Mr. Bush has failed to steer his
major domestic initiative through the friendly terrain of a Republican Congress.

''This immigration legislation is very important, and if he doesn't get
something in his administration, it will hurt his legacy domestically,'' said
James A. Thurber, a presidential scholar at American University.

White House officials said they could point to several areas of progress in
Congress -- on extending tax cuts, pushing a line-item veto and overhauling the
pension system. They said that they were under no illusions about the
difficulties facing the immigration plan, but that it would never have gotten
this far without the president, who will keep pushing for it. Aides say it is
still possible to reach a compromise after the November elections, if not
before. ''We believe by being patient and sticking with it, in time people are
going to be pretty happy with what the president proposes,'' said Tony Snow, the
White House spokesman.

But several analysts were skeptical, noting that in just the past week a
Republican candidate for governor in Arizona called for building prison camps
for illegal immigrants. And the first campaign advertisement for Senator Rick
Santorum of Pennsylvania, who many believe is the most endangered Republican in
the Senate, featured him talking about stringent border measures.

From the start of the year, after House Republicans passed a tough immigration
measure that Mr. Bush's political advisers worried would undercut their effort
to appeal to Hispanic voters, the White House tentatively pushed a more
moderate, ''comprehensive'' bill that was gathering support in the Senate.

But Mr. Bush was criticized by both sides as not taking a public stand on
specifics and permitting conservative members of the House to define the debate.
Aides said the president was trying to stay above the discussion to remain
flexible enough to broker a compromise.

Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said that in one strategy
session Mr. Bush told the senator he could not be identified as publicly
supporting the Senate bill, which sought to tighten border control but also give
illegal immigrants a chance to become citizens after paying fines. ''Don't quote
me, Arlen,'' Mr. Specter recalled the president saying, implying that Mr. Bush
had spoken approvingly of the bill.

In April, Mr. Bush brought Joshua B. Bolten on as the new chief of staff,
shaking up a White House that had been criticized as adrift. With a new team in
charge, Mr. Bush took a more forceful stand, using the issue as a way to
reassert his leadership. In a speech televised in prime time, he supported the
enforcement measures advocated by conservatives and called for sending National
Guard troops to the border, but he also said that some illegal immigrants should
be allowed legal status.

White House officials now credit Mr. Bush's address with providing impetus for
passage of a compromise bill by the Senate that had earlier faltered, opening
the door for a final compromise with the House, in a process that now hangs in
the balance. Some officials privately had said failure to produce compromise
before Congress's summer break would seriously hinder their effort.

But House Republicans said they never stopped pressing the case to the White
House that the bill was a political disaster for endangered incumbents, and they
were baffled at what they said was the failure of Mr. Bush's aides to appreciate
their conviction.

One lawmaker said House Republicans who had attended two closed-door briefings
on the issue by the White House deputy chief of staff, Karl Rove, and others,
kept waiting for the administration to reverse their concerns that passing the
bill would hurt Republicans; in the lawmakers' view, the administration never
made a convincing case.

White House aides said Republicans had overestimated the bill's political
liabilities and underestimated the long-term damage it could do to the party if
Republicans were identified among Hispanics as anti-immigrant. ''This is a bad
trajectory for the Republican Party right now,'' said a senior Republican
official who was granted anonymity to discuss the unusual friction in the
Republican ranks.

Positions hardened when lawmakers went home for recess at the end of May and
were confronted by constituents agitated over the issue. They returned to
Washington to the news that Mr. Bilbray had narrowly won the seat vacated by
Randy Cunningham, a Republican now jailed after a corruption scandal.

When House Republicans met for a conference that Wednesday, conservative members
seized on the Bilbray victory as vindication of their argument that embracing
the Senate and White House position would be poison in the fall elections,
according to one participant in the meeting who was granted anonymity because
the meetings were private.

Mr. Hastert and the House majority leader, John A. Boehner, told Mr. Bush in the
Oval Office that the already long odds for passage of an immigration bill before
the summer break had faded even more. But, aides said, the president, who has
been concerned about the issue since his days as governor of Texas, where
immigration is an important political and cultural issue, responded that he
would not let up.

Over the next few days, Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, the head
of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee, went to Mr. Boehner and Mr.
Hastert and, using polling data and pointing to what he described as politically
implausible sections of the bill, warned of the consequences of enactment of the
Senate legislation.

''Reynolds made clear to the leaders that the House had already staked out its
position, and from a political standpoint it would be irresponsible to accept a
bill that was much different,'' said Carl Forti, his communications director. He
said Mr. Reynolds had told House leaders that supporting the bill would be
''suicide for some of our members.''

The White House and its supporters pointed to a poll that found strong support
among Republican voters for a bill that allowed illegal immigrants to ''earn''
legal status. And senior White House aides argued that fellow party members were
over-interpreting the meaning of Mr. Bilbray's victory in a traditionally solid
Republican area. ''We're happy he won,'' Mr. Snow said Friday. ''But he barely
got 50 percent.''

When Mr. Hastert announced that he was postponing action on the bill until after
a series of hearings around the country, the White House described the delay as
temporary.

But in the Senate, the reaction to the House move was quite different.

''Thank God for the House,'' said a senior Senate Republican strategist, who was
granted anonymity in order to discuss the party's concerns about the debate.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President and Mrs. Bush posing with Representative Peter T. King
of New York on June 15 at the Congressional picnic at the White House. (Photo by
Gerald Herbert/Associated Press)(pg. 22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 26, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Public Hearings On Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 499 words



To the Editor:

Let not the House of Representatives take the public's name in vain.

Speaker J. Dennis Hastert insists that nationwide public hearings are not a
delaying tactic and that ''we can send an immigration bill to the president this
year'' (''House Republicans Schedule Immigration Hearings in Border States,''
news article, June 23).

But hearings set for mid-August make legislative action before the November
elections, which are preceded by heavy campaigning in September and October,
highly unlikely. And the dueling hearings being planned by Democrats and Senate
Republicans are adding fuel to the fire rather than creating the conditions for
genuine public input.

For the record, deploying a pseudo-citizen engagement campaign as an
obstructionist tactic or as a ploy to score partisan points will only increase
the general public cynicism and disgust with the political status quo. Authentic
public engagement requires genuine listening and honest, non-manipulative
discussion of the benefits and drawbacks of different approaches.

Clearly our leaders in Washington didn't get the memo on how public dialogue for
public good actually works.

Ruth A. Wooden
President, Public Agenda
New York, June 23, 2006

To the Editor:

It is generally agreed that most Americans have little sense of history. But the
road show that House Republicans are proposing (''The Immigration Road Show,''
editorial, June 22) to delay responsible action on immigration suggests a need
for a refresher course.

Have the House Republicans forgotten that every one of them is a descendant of
immigrants at some point in their personal history?

What would have happened if, at the time their ancestors entered this country or
planned to, they would have been met by a Congress such as we now have? As
conspicuous beneficiaries of the American system, members of Congress are
showing a mean-spiritedness that is a disgraceful reflection on themselves and
on this nation of immigrants.

Theodore S. Voelker
Copake, N.Y., June 22, 2006

To the Editor:

I am a liberal, always-voted-for-Ted-Kennedy (until this year) Democrat who
supports the House immigration bill over the Senate bill.

Here we face potentially disastrous greenhouse warming, and Americans are the
biggest per capita emitters of greenhouse gases in the world, and the Senate
bill would add millions to the United States population over the next 20 years
(from countries where per capita greenhouse emissions are a tiny fraction of our
own), not only from amnesties, chain migration and children born to immigrants,
but through guest worker provisions so liberal they are likely to spawn a new
industry to import labor for big companies. That, in turn, will prove disastrous
for American workers, who will have to compete with the cheap foreign labor.

The United States is already the fastest-growing industrialized nation, and most
of that growth is due to mass immigration. We don't need any more.

David Holzman
Lexington, Mass., June 22, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Day Laborers, Silent and Despised, Find Their Voice

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 762 words


Illegal immigrants are a diverse bunch. There are about 12 million in this
country, working in all industries and living in a range from middle class to
working poor to something well below that. They are mostly Latino, but are
Asian, African and Eastern European, too. The illegal Irish get a lot of press,
but are just one tiny subset, a green sprig of parsley in the melting pot.

Of all these ethnic and economic subgroups, the one I find most compelling is
the quiet one at the bottom: the Latino day laborers, the street-corner guys.

They are not the largest group, but they are the most visible, most vulnerable
and most hated. They are also the least likely to get anything good out of the
immigration bills now festering in Congress.

It takes nothing from the punishing toil of farm workers, hotel maids,
wilderness firefighters and chicken processors to say that day laborers occupy a
position of particular risk and hardship in these times of immigration panic.

They are silent and anonymous, but painfully exposed. They are jeered by
suburbanites, harassed by Minuteman vigilantes and hounded by communities with
police crackdowns, anti-loitering statutes and mass evictions. Contractors cheat
them. People beat them up and firebomb their homes.

The possibility of being victimized without sympathy or a safety net is, of
course, the risk one takes when entering this country illegally.

Day laborers are acutely aware of this and have set out to improve things on
their own. In a development that may surprise those who see day laborers as
immigration at its chaotic worst, this ad hoc phenomenon is shaping itself up.

Through a growing national network of job centers and hiring halls, day laborers
are organizing, finding allies and pressing for better treatment.

They are energized by a sense that hard work and suffering are antidotes to
shame, and that even the shunned and excluded can push back.

A coalition of worker groups around the country founded the National Day Laborer
Organizing Network in 2000 to press for its members' rights. At a national
conference last year at Hofstra University on Long Island, delegates from 12
states met to share strategies.

In many areas, laborers have formed de facto unions, refusing to work for less
than $10 an hour. In places that have tried to force them out, like Redondo
Beach, Calif., and Mamaroneck, N.Y., workers and their allies have filed federal
lawsuits on First Amendment grounds.

The National Day Laborer Organizing Network is forging alliances with organized
labor, like the Laborers' International Union of North America, which represents
700,000 construction workers, to fight for hiring sites and safer working
conditions.

The immigration bills languishing in Congress offer very little promise for day
laborers. Even the most generous legislation denies a path to legal status for
the newest immigrants and those who can't prove steady employment, which leaves
many day laborers out of luck.

The day laborers' group held a forum in a Manhattan church basement recently to
discuss the bills, and the general mood was pessimistic. Members spoke of a
disconnect between grass-roots organizations like theirs and the large
immigrant-advocacy groups in Washington. They had little good to say about the
Senate bill, which has been held up by many immigrant advocates as the best deal
obtainable.

Such resentment may sound out of place for people who broke the law to get here.
But while day laborers may be the most loathed illegal immigrants, you could
also call them the least illegal. They don't misrepresent their identities as
they contract independently for jobs off the books. They don't steal Social
Security numbers or submit false work papers. They just work.

Members of the day laborers' network talk about ways their organization and
other grass-roots groups would make their case to a public that isn't buying it.
They have begun a hearts-and-minds campaign, seeking to win friends by cleaning
up parks and highways while building up political clout with lobbying and
protests.

But even if they can pull it off, the odds are against the strategy working.
It's been hard enough getting the country behind even limited immigration
reform.

If and when Congress ever gets around to fixing immigration, the illegal
immigrants who benefit -- if any -- will be the ones seen as the worthiest, most
promising and least threatening.

There will be no room for those at the margins, and that, practically by
definition, is where the day laborers are -- waiting, and working.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Millions in 9/11 Payments, Bereaved Can't Buy Green Cards

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1790 words


One widow has more than $2 million but walks or rides the bus everywhere,
terrified of drawing attention. Another millionaire widow stopped going to 9/11
support groups because she feared that families of police officers and
firefighters might betray her. A widower has enough money to start a business
building houses, but cannot buy himself a home.

All three lost a husband or a wife when the World Trade Center collapsed. Like
thousands of others, they were beneficiaries of the federal Sept. 11 Victim
Compensation Fund, which awarded millions of dollars to families whose loved
ones died in the attacks.

But a secret sets these three apart. Like their spouses who died, each is in the
country illegally. Even though the government compensated them richly for their
losses, making them wealthier than they ever dreamed, the money did not change
their immigration status. They fear they could be deported any day.

Five years after the terrorist attacks, these people are living with
extraordinary contradictions.

Long accustomed to stashing dollar bills in coffee cans, they became
millionaires overnight. But because they do not have Social Security numbers or
work visas, they cannot get mortgages or driver's licenses. They say they have
spent little of the money, afraid of attracting notice.

Their spouses were labeled heroes, their names emblazoned on placards ringing
ground zero. But none of these three, still living in or near New York City,
feel they can publicly identify themselves.

''I can't dream very high, because I have no papers,'' said one widow from
Ecuador, who, like the others, agreed to be interviewed on the condition that
she not be named. ''You're always afraid of exposure. It's a horrible feeling.
But I don't want to go back to my country. I know my husband's spirit is here.''

After Congress created the victims' fund, promising payouts in return for an
agreement not to sue the airlines or other interests, the officials who drafted
the fund's rules explicitly stated that foreigners and illegal immigrants would
be eligible. And immigration authorities announced that they would not use
information provided to the fund to track people down.

But the families who received money could still face deportation if their
identities come to light in some other way, their lawyers say.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in New York, Mark Thorn,
said the agency could not comment on specific cases, but confirmed it was not
focusing on the families. Still, he added, ''generally speaking, anyone who is
in this country illegally is vulnerable to removal.''

Legislation before Congress would grant green cards to the illegal immigrants
who received money. But the measure, attached to the Senate's immigration bill,
is deadlocked with the entire package.

From the start, many immigrants were suspicious of the fund.

''They were these modest, poor, fearful people,'' said Kenneth R. Feinberg, the
fund's special master, who determined the awards. ''They were afraid they'd be
punished.''

In the end, 11 awards went to the survivors of illegal immigrants. All those
victims had worked at the restaurant Windows on the World. Although they had
earned modest wages, many were upwardly mobile and supported relatives back
home, factors that increased the payouts. Their awards ranged from $875,000 to
$4.1 million.

But their lawyers still worried: That their clients would become marks for
hustlers. That relatives, sustained by wire transfers and living in unstable
countries, would be kidnapped for ransom.

Details about the 11 families are sketchy. At least three lived abroad at the
time of the attack and remain there. At least three were here in New York on
9/11 and still live here with their children in modest apartments.

They could return to their native lands with their money, but feel tethered
here, unwilling to leave the country where their spouses worked and died, and
determined to give their children a chance to grow up here.

''I have half my life here,'' one widow said. ''And my husband is here.''

When the widow from Ecuador first heard about the fund, she thought it might be
a trap to catch immigrants like her.

She and her husband moved to Queens in 1992, paying smugglers $11,000 to help
them cross the border. But now her husband, a supply-room manager, was dead and
she was alone with their son, who had joined them later. She could no longer
afford the rent on their cramped basement apartment, where sewage leached
through floors, or her son's asthma spray.

The union at Windows on the World arranged for families to meet with pro-bono
lawyers. One lawyer, Debra Steinberg, convinced her that Mr. Feinberg, the
fund's administrator, was sincere.

But the woman was petrified. Mr. Feinberg worked for the government, after all.
When she told him her story at a hearing in April 2003, her voice quavered.

''How could he understand how I was feeling, how I was screaming from the
inside?'' she said she wondered. ''That we need help, and we're alone. That we
don't belong here, but that I don't want to go back to my country. That I'm
already part of this one, because my husband is here.''

Mr. Feinberg awarded her roughly $1.6 million.

The sum frightened her. She had grown up in a mountain town where dinner often
consisted of rice and half an egg. ''I was praying, 'Please, God, don't let me
change, let me stay myself,' '' she said.

The woman, 38, tried to make peace with the windfall by thinking of the money as
her husband's gift to their son. With help, she put it into conservative
investments that she could tap if forced back to Ecuador. She has lived off the
interest, she says.

And she has continued to live modestly, renting a two-bedroom apartment in East
Elmhurst, Queens, for $1,200 a month. Her splurge was a bedroom set for her son.

But the money did change her life. She is still a warm woman with laughing brown
eyes, but she has grown withdrawn.

She is afraid to tell neighbors she is a 9/11 widow, fearing questions about her
immigration status. She yearns for work to fill her days, but has no visa. She
stopped seeing old friends who made snide remarks about her sudden wealth. Even
9/11 support groups made her feel unsafe, because they were filled with spouses
of dead police officers.

''I'd rather be alone,'' she said softly.

Her son, 17, is a senior at a private school in Manhattan, his tuition paid by a
private foundation. A gifted photographer, he dreams of studying design, but the
colleges he is interested in require Social Security numbers.

He says he cannot imagine moving to Ecuador, which he left at age 5.

''I have no idea what I'll do,'' he said, as a trailer for the movie ''World
Trade Center'' flashed across their television screen. He took a shaky breath
and said, ''My history is here.''

For the second widow, school days are the hardest. The Mexican woman with the
soulful eyes and a sweep of dark hair tightens her fingers around her 9-year-old
son's hand and boards the public bus. Only 4-foot-7, she almost disappears into
the seat. But she feels like a beacon sending off warning signals.

Her son was 4 when his father, a grill cook, died on 9/11. The Windows of Hope
Family Relief Fund, which helps families of the restaurant workers, pays the
boy's tuition at a private elementary school in Manhattan. But this woman lives
outside Newark and has no car. So she takes her son to and from school, a daily
commute totaling six hours.

She finds the journey harrowing. Security is tighter now at bridges and tunnels.
''I never know if they're going to get me,'' said the woman, 30, who recently
had a baby girl with her new companion.

It is hard to fathom that this woman has about $2.2 million, trusted financial
advisers and a lawyer, Ms. Steinberg. Yet there are things that a fortune cannot
buy. She has the cash to buy a house outright, but fears that if deported, she
could lose any property here. She struggled to find an apartment, because most
landlords demand a Social Security number. She cannot get a driver's license, so
she carries groceries and laundry for blocks, her baby in tow.

Immigration officials have caught her before. In 2000, she says, she and her
husband were intercepted as they were returning from their wedding in Mexico.
Deportation hearings were scheduled for May 2002, but by then her husband had
been killed.

As a lawyer asked an immigration judge to grant the woman mercy as a 9/11
victim, a memorial service was under way at ground zero. The judge let her go,
and she applied to the fund the following year.

If she has to return to Mexico, the money will still be hers, government
officials said. But she will have to make a wrenching decision. Her son is a
United States citizen, born in Queens. He has relatives he adores nearby, and
she feels his future is more assured here. Yet she cannot imagine leaving him
behind.

The third spouse, a widower, faces a similar dilemma. He could move back to
Ecuador and start the construction business he has always dreamed of. But he is
torn -- and amazed to find himself in a country where he is not supposed to even
work or drive.

''Why am I staying here?'' he says he asks himself.

The answer is his 5-year-old daughter, his last link to his wife. The girl has
just started prekindergarten. If he can endure staying one more year, her
English will improve, he says. And maybe the legislation allowing him a green
card will pass.

Yet waiting is not easy for this stocky 35-year-old, caught between his fierce
independence and a deep concern for his daughter.

A construction worker, he was always proudly self-sufficient, though his wife
earned more as a prep cook. After her death, he threw himself into raising --
and coddling -- the child, then 8 months old. He filled her bedroom with plush
animals and bought her the frilliest dresses he could find.

Yet when his lawyer, Saralyn Cohen, told him about the fund, he balked, offended
by charity. But when she gently noted that the money would help his daughter, he
softened.

She said he invested the money, about $2.2 million, only occasionally tapping
into the interest. Seemingly indifferent about the windfall, he kept the same
small apartment in Borough Park, Brooklyn. ''Money cannot buy my daughter's
mother back,'' he said.

Though resolved to stay another year, he aches for Ecuador and wants the girl to
meet her grandparents. Yet if he traveled home, he could not return.

And so he ticks off the days until his life can begin again.

''It's all for her, so she does something better,'' he said as his daughter
wrapped her arms around his neck. ''That she becomes a doctor, a lawyer. That
she's not the same as me.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: MATERIAL COMFORT, CONTINUING UNCERTAINTY-- At home with
relatives of a World Trade Center victim. Fearing betrayal and deportation, they
keep a low profile. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)
 DREAMING, BUT CAUTIOUSLY -- One of the 9/11 widows in the office of her lawyer.
''I can't dream very high, because I have no papers,'' one says. (Photo by
Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Impasse

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 589 words


If there ever was a moment in the debate over immigration when presidential
leadership was urgently needed, it was yesterday, when Congress returned from
its two-week intermission with the Senate's short-lived compromise in tatters.
But all President Bush offered was a restatement of the painfully obvious and a
bunch of bland generalities.

In the last installment of this melodrama, Senate leaders failed to find the
courage to foil the Republicans who had lighted the fuse on amendments intended
to blow apart a pale and fragile compromise. Meanwhile, nervous and defensive
Democrats wrapped the bill tightly in a procedural blanket.

Mr. Bush might have thought he was answering lawmakers' pleas for help when he
informed an audience in California that mass deportations wouldn't work. That's
a sensible -- if fairly obvious -- generality. But this is a moment for
specifics. The president could have argued forcefully for comprehensive reform
and spelled out the distinction that the Senate has drawn between an earned
route to legalization and the detested free ride of amnesty. Instead, he blandly
labeled the Senate compromise an ''interesting approach,'' as if he were
pondering a piece of modern art rather than the fate of something central to his
domestic agenda.

The pieces of comprehensive reform are in place: tighter borders and stricter
enforcement of employment laws, more visas for temporary workers, and a path to
citizenship for many of the 11 million to 12 million people who are here
illegally. But the ingredients of an endless stalemate are there, too, nurtured
by a Republican hard core that blindly insists that there are only two things to
do with illegal immigrants: exploit them or expel them.

The Senate's latest immigration bill is an awkward, unappetizing compromise,
which would shut out many newer immigrants and impose daunting red-tape hurdles
on the rest. But at least it remains wrapped around a vital principle: the
option of citizenship for those in the shadow population who want and deserve to
become Americans.

Senator Arlen Specter, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, says his panel will
take up immigration immediately, and he insists that a majority in the Senate
support comprehensive reform. But it's not clear how willing the majority
leader, Bill Frist, is to stand up to those in his party's right wing who want
to enshrine police-state enforcement as the beginning and the end of immigration
strategy.

Comprehensive reform will also mean ensuring that if a decent bill is passed by
the Senate, it will not be destroyed later when the House and Senate negotiate
privately over their different measures. Supporters of comprehensive reform
deserve a guarantee that a conference committee will not include senators who
are eager to shred good legislation to reconcile it with the xenophobic bill
passed in December by the House. And Mr. Bush needs to signal the House that he
is behind the Senate's approach.

With elections looming, there are many who are content to confine the
immigration debate to a netherworld of bumper stickers and T-shirt slogans,
where remedies are simplistic and short-term. The Republican National Committee,
after all, has begun broadcasting lies on Spanish-language radio in the
Southwest. The ads accuse the Democrats of supporting efforts to turn illegal
immigrants into felons, when the opposite is true.

With a strong push from Mr. Bush, the tardy Mr. Frist could guide this wearying
saga to a better ending. Millions are watching, and waiting.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Good Neighbor Policy

BYLINE: By Jorge G. Castaneda.

Jorge G. Castaneda, a professor of Latin American and Caribbean studies at New
York University, was the foreign minister of Mexico from 2000 to 2003.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 530 words


THERE are many excellent reasons to salvage the immigration bill that collapsed
two months ago in the Senate. But one of the most overlooked lies not in the
protests that have filled streets in Los Angeles and Washington, but in the wave
of populism that has swept Latin American cities like Caracas, La Paz, Lima and
Mexico City.

An ultra-nationalist candidate, Ollanta Humala, seems poised to win a runoff
this month in Peru's presidential elections. He wants, among other things, to
renationalize Peru's natural resources, promote coca cultivation and align Peru
against Washington with Venezuela's Hugo Chavez and his Bolivian neighbor, Evo
Morales (who on Monday sent soldiers to take control of Bolivia's oil fields and
refineries).

Mr. Humala is part of Latin America's new left turn -- the wrong part of the
left. Progressive leaders in countries with a long leftist history -- Brazil,
Chile and Uruguay -- are economically moderate, ideologically tolerant and
internationally open-minded. The other left -- Mr. Chavez, Mr. Morales, Mr.
Humala and Nestor Kirchner in Argentina -- springs from a populist past and
seeks a populist future: big-time spending, authoritarian governance and
militant anti-Americanism.

The great populist hope of that left is, of course, Mexico City's former mayor,
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, a strong contender in Mexico's presidential race.
By background and policies, he clearly belongs to the wrong left. Mr. Lopez
Obrador comes from the corrupt authoritarian machinery that governed Mexico for
70 years, just as Mr. Kirchner descends directly from Juan Peron, and Mr. Chavez
and Mr. Humala began their political careers with failed military coups against
corrupt but democratically elected governments.

It is one thing to have populism in power in the Andes; it is quite another to
have it controlling a 2,000-mile border with the United States. This is where
leadership on immigration reform from George W. Bush and broad-minded Republican
senators comes in.

Nothing could contribute more to the continuity of sensible policies in Latin
America than a clear signal from the north that cooperating with Washington, and
renouncing America-bashing, pays off, even on an emotional issue like
immigration. And few things could offer ultra-nationalist leaders better proof
of America's not-so-benign neglect and imperial arrogance as further paralysis
on immigration.

President Vicente Fox of Mexico staked much of his prestige on President Bush's
commitment to fix immigration policy. First Sept. 11 got in the way, then Iraq
did; and so Mr. Bush left Mr. Fox empty-handed. But immigration reform along the
lines of the Senate compromise would still give Mr. Fox a huge boost.

It would strengthen support for Mexico's policies of the last decade: economic
stability and growth, democratic rule, a mature and responsible foreign policy
and an innovative war on poverty. It would allow the United States to encourage
that continuity, whoever wins Mexico's July 2 elections, without interfering in
its neighbor's political process.

Along with all the other good reasons for sensible immigration reform, this one
is certainly worth acting on.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

PLAN TO DEPLOY GUARD AT BORDER WORRIES MEXICO

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Ginger Thompson contributed reporting from Mexico City
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 14


President Bush's plan to send National Guard troops to patrol the southern
border of the United States has raised the concern of his longtime ally
President Vicente Fox of Mexico, who called Mr. Bush on Sunday to express his
worries.

White House officials said Mr. Bush assured Mr. Fox that a permanent National
Guard presence on the border was not being considered.

''The president made clear that the United States considers Mexico a friend,''
said Maria Tamburri, a White House spokeswoman.

Ms. Tamburri said the president told Mr. Fox, ''What is being considered is not
a militarization of the border, but support of border patrol capabilities, on a
temporary basis, by National Guard personnel.''

In a televised address scheduled for 8 p.m. Monday, Mr. Bush is expected to call
for a significantly increased National Guard presence at the border. Officials
have indicated that Mr. Bush could call for a force of thousands but that it
would not be as high as 10,000, a number that had been rumored late last week.

Reports of the plan over the weekend also caused concern among lawmakers,
including some Republicans, who said they feared the National Guard was already
overextended with military missions abroad and with its response to natural
disasters at home.

On Monday, Mr. Bush is also expected to outline several other proposals aimed at
sealing the border and cracking down on workers who are illegally in the United
States, and the employers who hire them. Aides said he would renew his calls for
an overhaul of the nation's immigration law that includes provisions to grant
illegal immigrants the right to work here legally.

The president's speech, his first on domestic policy from the Oval Office, is to
come as the Senate begins trying again to pass a bill that addresses competing
demands to stem the flow of workers across the border from Mexico and the desire
of American employers to have reliable access to a low-wage work force.

White House officials have made it clear that they hope that a plan to seal the
border will help Mr. Bush in that effort to strike a compromise between any bill
passed in the Senate and the one passed in December in the House, where many
Republicans have opposed any steps to legalize illegal workers.

Lawmakers from both parties expressed concerns on Sunday about the idea of
deploying the National Guard.

Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who helped draft the Senate
immigration bill, said he was skeptical about whether the plan would work.

''We have stretched our military as thin as we have ever seen it in modern
times,'' Hagel said on ''This Week'' on ABC. ''And what in the world are we
talking about here, sending a National Guard that we may not have any capacity
to send, up to or down to protect borders?''

He said he did not believe border protection was ''the role of our National
Guard.''

Speaking on ''Late Edition'' on CNN, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of
Vermont, said expressed similar feelings, saying, , ''We're stretching them
pretty thin now. We're going to make a border patrol out of them?''

But White House officials said late last week that they believed the president's
address on Monday would be welcomed by voters, who have told pollsters they
would like to see tighter control of the borders.

''The president is looking to do everything he can to secure the border,'' said
Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS.
''It's what the American people want, it's what he wants to do.''

Mr. Hadley said sending National Guard troops to the border -- officials say
there are about 200 there now -- would supplement the Border Patrol as it adds
agents whose training and deployment will take time.

White House officials said that was the message that the president conveyed to
Mr. Fox, whose defense minister met on Friday with Defense Secretary Donald H.
Rumsfeld at the Pentagon. Ms. Tamburri, the White House spokeswoman, said Mr.
Fox and Mr. Bush also discussed ''cooperative efforts under way'' on the border.

A statement from Mr. Fox's office said that during the president's 30-minute
conversation he reiterated to Mr. Bush his conviction that the best way to
manage the problem of illegal migration was with comprehensive legislation.

Migration has been the centerpiece of Mr. Fox's foreign policy in the six years
of his presidency. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, his hopes faltered for
swift passage of measures to legalize an estimated six million Mexicans working
illegally in the United States.

The relationship between Mexico and the United States grew tense as the Bush
administration began focusing more on ways to seal the border than to expand
opportunities for the legal flow of migrant workers. Still, Mr. Fox publicly
supported most of Mr. Bush's law enforcement efforts on the border. His
cooperation with the United States has cost him significant political clout,
however, among an increasing number of left-leaning leaders across Latin
America.

And with presidential elections less than two months away, feelings that Mr. Fox
has subordinated Mexico's sovereignty to American interests threaten to affect
the chances of the candidate he hopes to succeed him, Felipe Calderon.

Mr. Fox's expression of concern to Mr. Bush, along with that of members of
Congress and some governors, underscored the constituencies the president is
juggling as heseeks a legislative victory on an issue of special interest to him
at a time when much of his agenda is stalled.

His push for granting illegal immigrants legal status, and his veiled discussion
of a path to citizenship -- he often says those who want to become citizens
would have to go to ''the back of the line'' -- has been dismissed as
''amnesty'' by some conservatives. And, as his party faces a rough midterm
election fight, Republicans have worried that his push on immigration has helped
demoralize core conservative voters.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vicente Fox of Mexico called President Bush last
night. (Photo by Barbara Gindl/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Seeking to Control Borders, Bush Turns to Big Military Contractors

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


The quick fix may involve sending in the National Guard. But to really patch up
the broken border, President Bush is preparing to turn to a familiar
administration partner: the nation's giant military contractors.

Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Northrop Grumman, three of the largest, are among
the companies that said they would submit bids within two weeks for a
multibillion-dollar federal contract to build what the administration calls a
''virtual fence'' along the nation's land borders.

Using some of the same high-priced, high-tech tools these companies have already
put to work in Iraq and Afghanistan -- like unmanned aerial vehicles, ground
surveillance satellites and motion-detection video equipment -- the military
contractors are zeroing in on the rivers, deserts, mountains and settled areas
that separate Mexico and Canada from the United States.

It is a humbling acknowledgment that despite more than a decade of initiatives
with macho-sounding names, like Operation Hold the Line in El Paso or Operation
Gate Keeper in San Diego, the federal government has repeatedly failed on its
own to gain control of the land borders.

Through its Secure Border Initiative, the Bush administration intends to not
simply buy an amalgam of high-tech equipment to help it patrol the borders -- a
tactic it has also already tried, at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars,
with extremely limited success. It is also asking the contractors to devise and
build a whole new border strategy that ties together the personnel, technology
and physical barriers.

''This is an unusual invitation,'' the deputy secretary of homeland security,
Michael Jackson, told contractors this year at an industry briefing, just before
the bidding period for this new contract started. ''We're asking you to come
back and tell us how to do our business.''

The effort comes as the Senate voted Wednesday to add hundreds of miles of
fencing along the border with Mexico. The measure would also prohibit illegal
immigrants convicted of a felony or three misdemeanors from any chance at
citizenship.

The high-tech plan being bid now has many skeptics, who say they have heard a
similar refrain from the government before.

''We've been presented with expensive proposals for elaborate border technology
that eventually have proven to be ineffective and wasteful,'' Representative
Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky, said at a hearing on the Secure Border
Initiative program last month. ''How is the S.B.I. not just another three-letter
acronym for failure?''

President Bush, among others, said he was convinced that the government could
get it right this time.

''We are launching the most technologically advanced border security initiative
in American history,'' Mr. Bush said in his speech from the Oval Office on
Monday.

Under the initiative, the Department of Homeland Security and its Customs and
Border Protection division will still be charged with patrolling the 6,000 miles
of land borders.

The equipment these Border Patrol agents use, how and when they are dispatched
to spots along the border, where the agents assemble the captured immigrants,
how they process them and transport them -- all these steps will now be scripted
by the winning contractor, who could earn an estimated $2 billion over the next
three to six years on the Secure Border job.

More Border Patrol agents are part of the answer. The Bush administration has
committed to increasing the force from 11,500 to about 18,500 by the time the
president leaves office in 2008. But simply spreading this army of agents out
evenly along the border or extending fences in and around urban areas is not
sufficient, officials said.

''Boots on the ground is not really enough,'' Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff said Tuesday at a news conference that followed Mr. Bush's
announcement to send as many as 6,000 National Guard troops to the border.

The tools of modern warfare must be brought to bear. That means devices like the
Tethered Aerostat Radar, a helium-filled airship made for the Air Force by
Lockheed Martin that is twice the size of the Goodyear Blimp. Attached to the
ground by a cable, the airship can hover overhead and automatically monitor any
movement night or day. (One downside: it cannot operate in high winds.)

Northrop Grumman is considering offering its Global Hawk, an unmanned aerial
vehicle with a wingspan nearly as wide as a Boeing 737, that can snoop on
movement along the border from heights of up to 65,000 feet, said Bruce Walker,
a company executive.

Closer to earth, Northrop might deploy a fleet of much smaller, unmanned planes
that could be launched from a truck, flying perhaps just above a group of
already detected immigrants so it would be harder for them to scatter into the
brush and disappear.

Raytheon has a package of sensor and video equipment used to protect troops in
Iraq that monitors an area and uses software to identify suspicious objects
automatically, analyzing and highlighting them even before anyone is sent to
respond.

These same companies have delivered these technologies to the Pentagon,
sometimes with uneven results.

Each of these giant contractors -- Lockheed Martin alone employs 135,000 people
and had $37.2 billion in sales last year, including an estimated $6 billion to
the federal government -- is teaming up with dozens of smaller companies that
will provide everything from the automated cameras to backup energy supplies
that will to keep this equipment running in the desert.

The companies have studied every mile of border, drafting detection and
apprehension strategies that vary depending on the terrain. In a city, for
example, an immigrant can disappear into a crowd in seconds, while agents might
have hours to apprehend a group walking through the desert, as long as they can
track their movement.

If the system works, Border Patrol agents will know before they encounter a
group of intruders approximately how many people have crossed, how fast they are
moving and even if they might be armed.

Without such information, said Kevin Stevens, a Border Patrol official, ''we
send more people than we need to deal with a situation that wasn't a significant
threat,'' or, in a worst case, ''we send fewer people than we need to deal with
a significant threat, and we find ourselves outnumbered and outgunned.''

The government's track record in the last decade in trying to buy cutting-edge
technology to monitor the border -- devices like video cameras, sensors and
other tools that came at a cost of at least $425 million -- is dismal.

Because of poor contract oversight, nearly half of video cameras ordered in the
late 1990's did not work or were not installed. The ground sensors installed
along the border frequently sounded alarms. But in 92 percent of the cases, they
were sending out agents to respond to what turned out to be a passing wild
animal, a train or other nuisances, according to a report late last year by the
homeland security inspector general.

A more recent test with an unmanned aerial vehicle bought by the department got
off to a similarly troubling start. The $6.8 million device, which has been used
in the last year to patrol a 300-mile stretch of the Arizona border at night,
crashed last month.

With Secure Border, at least five so-called system integrators -- Lockheed,
Raytheon and Northrop, as well as Boeing and Ericsson -- are expected to submit
bids.

The winner, which is due to be selected before October, will not be given a
specific dollar commitment. Instead, each package of equipment and management
solutions the contractor offers will be evaluated and bought individually.

''We're not just going to say, 'Oh, this looks like some neat stuff, let's buy
it and then put it on the border,' ''Mr. Chertoff said at a news conference on
Tuesday.

Skepticism persists. A total of $101 million is already available for the
program. But on Wednesday, when the House Appropriations Committee moved to
approve the Homeland Security Department's proposed $32.1 billion budget for
2007, it proposed withholding $25 million of $115 million allocated next year
for the Secure Border contracting effort until the administration better defined
its plans.

''Unless the department can show us exactly what we're buying, we won't fund
it,'' Representative Rogers said. ''We will not fund programs with false
expectations.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2006



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Thursday about a federal plan to use
contractors to help secure the borders of the United States misstated the amount
that Lockheed Martin made in federal government sales in 2005. Of $37.2 billion
in sales, more than $31 billion, not $6 billion, was in sales to the government.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Northrop Grumman's Global Hawk is an unmanned surveillance
plane. (Photo by Northrop Grumman)
 Lockheed Martin's Tethered Aerostat Radar System hangs radar from an anchored
balloon. (Photo by Lockheed Martin)(pg. A24)Chart: ''New Technology on the
Border''The Department of Homeland Security will soon accept bids for a border
control system that will use existing and new technologies in a single
integrated information system. These five companies are expected to submit bids.
Also shown are some existing technologies that could be involved.BoeingEMPLOYEES
-- 153,0002005 REVENUE (BILLIONS) -- $54.8Lockheed MartinEMPLOYEES --
135,0002005 REVENUE (BILLIONS) -- 37.2Northrop GrummanEMPLOYEES -- 125,0002005
REVENUE (BILLIONS) -- 36.7RaytheonEMPLOYEES -- 80,0002005 REVENUE (BILLIONS) --
21.9EricssonEMPLOYEES -- 56,0002005 REVENUE (BILLIONS) -- 20.3**Converted from
Swedish Krona(Source by the companies)(pg. A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Plan to Lure Nurses May Hurt Poor Nations

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER; Carlos H. Conde contributed reporting from Manila
for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words


As the United States runs short of nurses, senators are looking abroad. A
little-noticed provision in their immigration bill would throw open the gate to
nurses and, some fear, drain them from the world's developing countries.

The legislation is expected to pass this week, and the Senate provision, which
removes the limit on the number of nurses who can immigrate, has been largely
overlooked in the emotional debate over illegal immigration.

Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, who sponsored the proposal, said it
was needed to help the United States cope with a growing nursing shortage.

He said he doubted the measure would greatly increase the small number of
African nurses coming to the United States, but acknowledged that it could have
an impact on the Philippines and India, which are already sending thousands of
nurses to the United States a year.

The exodus of nurses from poor to rich countries has strained health systems in
the developing world, which are already facing severe shortages of their own.
Many African countries have begun to demand compensation for the training and
loss of nurses and doctors who move away.

The Senate provision, which would remain in force until 2014, contains no such
compensation, and has not stirred serious opposition in Congress. Because it is
not part of the House immigration bill, a committee from both houses would have
to decide whether to include the provision on nurses if the full Congress
approves the legislation.

Public health experts in poor countries, told about the proposal in recent days,
reacted with dismay and outrage, coupled with doubts that their nurses would
resist the magnetic pull of the United States, which sits at the pinnacle of the
global labor market for nurses.

Removing the immigration cap, they said, would particularly hit the Philippines,
which sends more nurses to the United States than any other country, at least
several thousand a year. Health care has deteriorated there in recent years as
tens of thousands of nurses have moved abroad. Thousands of ill-paid doctors
have even abandoned their profession to become migrant-ready nurses themselves,
Filipino researchers say.

''The Filipino people will suffer because the U.S. will get all our trained
nurses,'' said George Cordero, president of the Philippine Nurse Association.
''But what can we do?''

The nurse proposal has strong backing from the American Hospital Association,
which reported in April that American hospitals had 118,000 vacancies for
registered nurses. The federal government predicted in 2002 that the
accelerating shortfall of nurses in the United States would swell to more than
800,000 by 2020.

''There is no reason to cap the number of nurses coming in when there's a
nationwide shortage, because you need people immediately,'' said Bruce Morrison,
a lobbyist for the hospital association and a former Democratic congressman.

The American Nurses Association, a professional trade association that
represents 155,000 registered nurses, opposes the measure. The group said it was
concerned the provision would lead to a flood of nurse immigrants and would
damage both the domestic work force and the home countries of the immigrants.

''We're disappointed that Congress, instead of providing appropriations for
domestic nursing programs, is outsourcing the education of nurses,'' said Erin
McKeon, the group's associate director of government affairs.

Holly Burkhalter, with Physicians for Human Rights, an advocacy group, said the
nurse proposal could undermine the United States' multibillion-dollar effort to
combat AIDS and malaria by potentially worsening the shortage of health workers
in poor countries. ''We're pouring water in a bucket with a hole in it, and we
drilled the hole,'' she said.

There are now many more Americans seeking to be nurses than places to educate
them. In 2005, American nursing schools rejected almost 150,000 applications
from qualified people, according to the National League for Nursing, a nonprofit
group that counts more than 1,100 nursing schools among its members.

One of the most important factors limiting the number of students was a lack of
faculty to teach them, nursing organizations say. Professors of nursing earn
less than practicing nurses, damping demand for teaching positions.

Under the current immigration system, experts estimate that 12,000 to 14,000
nurses have immigrated to the United States annually on employment visas that
entitle them to bring their immediate family members and obtain green cards.
They must pass English and U.S. nursing exams to qualify for visas.

In recent years, there had been enough visas for foreign nurses from most
countries, but a bottleneck developed in 2005, after immigration authorities
made a big push to clear a backlog of employment visa applications. That year,
Congress set aside 50,000 additional visas for nurses and their families. But
those visas will likely have all been used up by early next year, State
Department officials said.

It is difficult to forecast exactly how removing the limit on nurse immigration
would affect the number of nurses who moved to the United States.

Based on past trends, Mr. Morrison, the lobbyist who represents the hospital
association, said he thought the numbers would grow 5 to 10 percent a year over
recent levels. Recruiters would focus on countries with large numbers of
well-trained nurses, mainly the Philippines, India and China.

''But it's certainly true that the longer the United States puts off investing
in training nurses, the more pressure there will be to find nurses abroad,'' he
said.

Senator Brownback, who has been an advocate for programs to combat AIDS and
malaria in Africa, said he did not think lifting the cap on nurse migration
would have much effect on Africa because the infrastructure of companies that
did recruiting for the United States market was not set up there, nor did
African nurses have a big community there to plug into.

And while the Philippines could see an increase in nurse immigration, such flows
could also bring benefits, he said, not just in the money they sent home, but in
the nurses' voluntary efforts to improve health care in their home countries.

But Eric Buch, the top health adviser to the New Partnership for Africa's
Development, an Africa-wide undertaking initiated by the continent's heads of
state, said he expected that recruiting agencies would set up in African
countries where nurses were trained in English and that they would advertise the
change in the American law.

''You'll see that emerge, that's my guess,'' Professor Buch, who teaches health
policy at the University of Pretoria, in South Africa, said in a telephone
interview. ''The United States could become a place where we bleed our health
care workers.''

The flight of nurses from the Philippines, a former American colony, has
provided a huge boost to a weak economy, through remittances. Some government
agencies there have encouraged the export of nurses, who send home billions of
dollars each year to their families.

A nurse in the Philippines would earn a starting salary of less than $2,000 a
year compared with at least $36,000 a year in the United States, said Dr. Jaime
Galvez Tan, a medical professor at the University of the Philippines who led the
country's National Institutes of Health.

He said the flight of nurses had had a corrosive effect on health care. Most
Filipinos died without medical attention in 2003, just as they had three decades
earlier. And the percentage of women who gave birth with a doctor, nurse or
midwife attending has declined in recent years.

Based on surveys, Dr. Galvez Tan estimates that 80 percent of the country's
government doctors have become nurses or are enrolled in nursing programs,
hoping for an American green card. ''I plead for justice,'' he said in a
telephone interview. ''There has to be give and take, not just take, take, take
by the United States.''


  INDIA: 2,330
CHINA: 114
NIGERIA: 80
KENYA: 60

(Sources by U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Commission on
Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools)(pg. A12)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2006



CORRECTION: A front-page article on Wednesday about a proposal in the Senate to
remove the limit on the number of nurses who can immigrate to the United States
misstated the availability in recent years of medical care during childbirth in
the Philippines, a major source of nurses for the United States. The percentage
of women giving birth there with a doctor, nurse or midwife present has held
steady; it has not declined.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A nurse carries a newborn in a Manila hospital. Removing the
immigration cap on nurses would hit the Philippines hard, health experts say.
(Photo by Paula Bronstein/Getty Images)(pg. A1)
 Nursing students at Manila Doctor's College. An exodus of medical workers has
left the local health care system on the verge of collapse. (Photo by Cheryl
Ravelo/Reuters)(pg. A12)Chart: ''A Growing Shortage, An Eager Supply''The
government predicts the shortage of registered nurses will increase to 800,000
by 2020. Thousands of immigrating nurses fill these gaps each year.Graph
projects shortages of full-time equivalent registered nurses in the United
States (in thousands) from 2000-2020.Most nurses take a qualifying exam before
immigrating. In 2005 the countries below had the largest number of nurses pass
the test.PHILIPPINES: 4,594

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


A front-page article on Wednesday about a proposal in the Senate to remove the
limit on the number of nurses who can immigrate to the United States misstated
the availability in recent years of medical care during childbirth in the
Philippines, a major source of nurses for the United States. The percentage of
women giving birth there with a doctor, nurse or midwife present has held
steady; it has not declined.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Woven Into America

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 176 words



To the Editor:

My family of immigrants, legal and illegal, their children and grandchildren,
differ from current Hispanic immigrants in one important respect.

On arrival, the newcomers of generations past were fierce in their determination
to learn English, the bond that gave America its motto, ''Out of many, one.''

Unfortunately, even as English became the lingua franca of the world, much of
the Hispanic migration speaks only Spanish at home, depriving their children and
themselves of easy assimilation and economic advancement.

To make matters worse, we have pushed Spanish as an alternative to English in
commerce, on product instructions, in libraries, and worst of all, in schools,
unlacing the bond of a common language.

For those immigrants who propose to stay and become citizens, shouldn't we focus
their attention on the language that bound us as a nation rather than provide
them with an easy and disabling out not given to earlier immigrants who had to
learn English quickly to succeed and prosper?

Sol Stein

Tarrytown, N.Y., April 4, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Immigrant Voting Bill

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 102 words


City Councilmen Charles Barron and Kendall B. Stewart, Brooklyn Democrats,
introduced a bill yesterday to allow residents who have lived in the city for
six months or longer to vote in municipal elections. A similar bill was
discussed at a hearing in November but was not voted on. Supporters said nearly
half of the 51 council members supported the bill, but Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg has expressed opposition, saying that naturalization is the way to
enfranchise immigrants. The Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, also said she
did not support giving permanent residents the right to vote.    SEWELL CHAN
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Issue

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 132 words



To the Editor:

I am depressed and frustrated by the countless editorials and columns about the
immigration issue, in your paper and other publications. Not one I have read has
referred to the most important issue of all, which is the environmental effect
of continued population growth in our country, with immigration a major
contributor.

Urban sprawl and the loss of woodland and habitat, urban and traffic congestion,
pollution: all result from unchecked population growth.

Where is the voice of the national environmental groups?

Overpopulation, including in our own country, should be the most fundamental of
issues to them, and yet they are silent.

What is needed is a serious discussion about what our country should be like in
the future.

William A. North
Birmingham, Ala., April 5, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Angels in America

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Angel Espinoza doesn't understand why Republicans on Capitol Hill are determined
to deport Mexicans like him. I don't get it, either. He makes me think of my
Irish grandfather.

They both left farms and went to the South Side of Chicago, arriving with
relatively little education. My grandfather took a job in the stockyards and
lived in an Irish boardinghouse nearby. Espinoza started as a dishwasher and
lived with his brother in a Mexican neighborhood.

Like my grandfather, who became a streetcar motorman and then a police officer,
Espinoza moved on to better-paying jobs and a better home of his own. Like my
grandfather, Espinoza married an American-born descendant of immigrants from his
native country.

But whereas my grandfather became a citizen, Espinoza couldn't even become a
legal resident. Once he married an American, he applied, but was rejected
because he'd once been caught at the border and sent home with an order to stay
out. Violating that order made him ineligible for a green card and eligible for
deportation.

''I had to tell my 4-year-old daughter that one day I might not come home,'' he
said. ''I work hard and pay taxes and don't want any welfare. Why deport me?''

The official answer, of course, is that he violated the law. My grandfather
didn't. But my grandfather didn't have to. There weren't quotas on Europeans or
most other immigrants in 1911, even though, relative to the population, there
were more immigrants arriving and living here than there are today. If America
could absorb my grandfather, why keep out Espinoza?

It's been argued that Mexicans are different from past immigrants because
they're closer to home and less likely to assimilate. Compared with other
immigrants today, they're less educated, and their children are more likely to
get poor grades and drop out of school. Therefore, the argument goes, Mexicans
are in danger of becoming an underclass living in linguistically isolated
ghettos.

Those concerns sound reasonable in theory. But if you look at studies of
immigrants, you find that the typical story is much more like Espinoza's. He
dropped out of school at age 16 in southern Mexico, when his family needed money
for medical bills. He paid a coyote to sneak him across the border and went to
the Mexican neighborhood of Pilsen in Chicago, a metropolitan area that is now
home to the second-largest Mexican population in the nation.

Espinoza started off making less than $4 an hour as a dishwasher in a restaurant
that flouted the minimum-wage law. But he became a cook and worked up to $15 an
hour. He switched to driving a street-cleaning truck, a job that now pays him
$17 an hour, minus taxes and Social Security.

By age 24, he and his wife, Anita, had saved enough to buy a house for about
$200,000 in Villa Park, a suburb where most people don't speak Spanish. Now 27,
Espinoza's still working on his English (we spoke in Spanish), but his daughter
is already speaking English at her preschool.

There's nothing unusual about his progress. More than half of the Mexican
immigrants in Chicago own their own homes, and many are moving to the suburbs.
No matter where they live, their children learn English.

You can hear this on the sidewalks and school corridors in Mexican neighborhoods
like Pilsen, where most teenagers speak to one another in English. A national
survey by the Pew Hispanic Center found that nearly all second-generation
Latinos are either bilingual or English-dominant, and by the next generation 80
percent are English-dominant and virtually none speak just Spanish.

Yesterday, the Senate seemed close to a deal letting most immigrants become
legal residents. But it fell apart when Republicans fought to add restrictions,
including some that could prevent an immigrant with Espinoza's history from
qualifying.

Bobby Rush, a Democratic representative from Chicago, is trying to pass
protections for the Espinozas and other families in danger of being separated.
The issue has galvanized other Chicago public officials and immigrant advocates,
who are planning to take the families to Washington to press their case.

I'd like to see Republicans on Capitol Hill explain to Espinoza why he's less
deserving than their immigrant ancestors, but that's probably too much to
expect. Espinoza has a simpler wish: ''I would like them to tell my American
daughter why her father can't stay with her.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Eclectic Crowd Joins a Call For the Rights Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Ann Farmer and Kate Hammer contributed reporting for
this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words


The hotel housekeeper from El Salvador had taken a precious day off from
cleaning up after tourists. The Senegalese street vendor had sacrificed an
afternoon's sales. And the man with the hand-lettered sign that asked, ''Did
Pilgrims Need Green Cards?'' was an American-born asbestos-removal worker who
had come to show support for union colleagues from Poland and the Dominican
Republic.

Other immigrant rallies held across the country yesterday may have been larger,
but none was more diverse than New York's, as thousands converged at City Hall
Park in brilliant sunshine to demand a path to citizenship for all.

''We are inseparable, indivisible and impossible to take out of America,''
Chung-Wha Hong, director of the New York Immigration Coalition, told the crowd,
which she greeted in English, Spanish, Chinese, French and Korean. ''We are New
Yorkers.''

The crowd heard invocations by the leader of a Buddhist temple and a rabbi who
waved a matzo. They danced to salsa and to a Korean drumbeat supplied by a
troupe in traditional dress, as tourists gawked from double-decker buses. They
heard not only from both of New York's United States senators, but also from a
Broadway actress and a Harvard-educated union leader who had cajoled Chinese
waiters and garment workers to join the march despite fears of deportation.

''Your faces are the faces of America,'' said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton,
who is running for re-election this year and is seen as a possible Democratic
presidential candidate in 2008.

Mrs. Clinton was cheered early in the four-hour rally when she thanked the
rallying immigrants for their everyday work. ''Your faces are the faces of those
who give us a fair day's work -- and often not for a fair day's pay,'' she said.

Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat and New York's senior senator, extended the
thanks back in history to ''the hundreds of thousands of immigrants who have
made New York City the great city that it is.''

''The reason America is different from other countries is that we take new
immigrants and turn them into Americans in one generation,'' he said. ''Every
immigrant has had the guts, the gumption, the fortitude to say, 'I'm going to
make a better life for my family in America.' ''

Sarah Jones, an African-American actress who portrays more than a dozen
immigrants, including a Pakistani accountant, in her one-woman Broadway show,
''Bridge & Tunnel,'' said some people were always trying to pit blacks and
immigrants against each other.

''But I'm with you,'' she declared, her image projected on a giant screen behind
the speaker's stand, her words broadcast live on Spanish-language radio. ''I'm
glad to represent immigrants on the Great White Way of Broadway."

At its height, the rally stretched along Broadway from City Hall for a dozen
blocks, beyond Canal Street, as thousands converged from Chatham Square in
Chinatown, Washington Square Park and over the Brooklyn Bridge from Cadman
Plaza. A spokesman for Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union,
one of many organized labor groups that joined with grass-roots immigrant groups
in planning the rally, estimated that 125,000 people participated. Other
observers put it at more like 70,000.

Certainly it fell well short of rallies in cities where the population of
illegal immigrants is overwhelmingly from Mexico. In contrast, New York
demographers like to point out, no one ethnic group predominates in the city's
immigrant population of more than three million, even among Hispanics, who make
up about a third. Moreover, 80 percent of the city's immigrants are in the
United States legally, compared with about 50 percent in many other states.

''I've been here like 15 years and I'm still a resident, not a citizen, because
it takes longer and it's more expensive,'' said Priscilla Molina, a hotel
housekeeper from El Salvador who applied for a ''floating day'' of vacation just
to attend the rally with other members of her union, Unite Here. ''We work hard,
we pay taxes every year. We want all the immigrants to get to be citizens.''

Nearby, between a woman from Guinea with a red, white and blue headdress and a
man chanting ''education, not deportation,'' Birima Mboop, 54, who left Senegal
22 years ago, explained why he had left his stall in Harlem selling T-shirts and
sunglasses to join the protest.

''I don't have my green card,'' he said. ''I tried in 2001, but they tell me to
wait. I want to bring my family here.''

May Chen, a vice president of Unite Here who uses her Harvard education to
organize immigrant workers in factories and hotels, told the crowd that ''a
temporary guest-worker program that simply provides a cheap labor source for
employers'' was unacceptable.

''The road ahead is complex and dangerous,'' she said. ''Any major change in our
immigration laws will surely impact all of us for the next generation.''

For some, just showing up took courage. One man who marched on the Brooklyn
Bridge, Manuel Gomez, 32, a carpenter, acknowledged that as an illegal
immigrant, he was nervous about showing his face. ''But we have no choice,'' he
said.

Mr. Gomez said that he had not been home to Cuenca, Ecuador, since 1990. He
talked of when his father died two months ago, and how he could not go back for
the funeral. ''I haven't seen my mother in 16 years,'' he said. ''It hurts on my
heart.''

One of those waiting for him at City Hall Park was a burly asbestos-removal
worker, Alheen Plummer, 40, who was carrying signs from his union as well as his
sign suggesting that the Pilgrims lacked immigration papers.

''I'm American myself,'' he said. ''I'm just here in support of the immigrants
in our union, because they're hard workers, they're good people. They deserve a
chance to stay here in America.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Participants in Lower Manhattan last night joined in marches in
the National Day of Action Rally for Immigrant Rights. Speakers in various
languages talked of unity among immigrants. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York
Times)(pg. B1)
 Crowd estimates for yesterday's immigration rally that ended at City Hall
ranged from 70,000 to 125,000. (Photo by Casey Kelbaugh for The New York
Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 166 words



To the Editor:

Nicholas D. Kristof's April 9 column, like most comment on immigration, is
reactive. But mass immigration is structural.

Most people do not willingly leave their homes. They come here in large numbers,
for a life without rights or opportunity, because of the political, civil and
economic conditions they leave. Immigration pressure will ease when source
countries develop better economies and institutions.

Our policy should be to encourage such progress, as the European Union does with
new and prospective member countries.

At home, we will protect Americans at the lower end of our economy from unfair
competition if we bring immigrants into the mainstream, where employment is
legal and regulated.

And we need to provide Americans with decent education and opportunity, so high
school dropout rates decrease and so, at the other end of the scale, we are
under less pressure to skim ''brilliant minds'' from countries that need them at
home.

Ben Altman
Chicago, April 9, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After 3-Year Battle, Chinese Teenager Is on Road to U.S. Citizenship

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 10


Young Zheng could not wish for a better 18th birthday present: a green card.

Not the counterfeit kind given to him by Chinese smugglers known as snakeheads
before they put him on a plane to the United States. A real one, so he can get
out of federal custody, stave off deportation, finish school and chase his dream
of becoming a biologist.

It now appears that Young, who once bashed himself against a wall to avoid being
sent back to China, has won a three-year legal struggle over his immigration
status, putting him on the path to American citizenship -- if keeping him in the
shadows indefinitely for his own safety.

Young foresees a normal life someday, he said in an interview on Sunday under
condition that his whereabouts be withheld and that photographs not reveal his
features. ''I look so different than when I came here,'' he said, running a hand
through his spiky black hair.

Anyway, he said, ''when I am 40 or 50, the smugglers already pass away.'' They
had already threatened family members, he said.

After a federal judge in Houston forced the government in February to allow the
case to be heard in family court, a Texas family court judge ruled Friday that
Young had been neglected and abandoned by his father in China.

With that ruling, Young's lawyer, John Sullivan III -- a partner at Fulbright &
Jaworski who at the urging of the actress Angelina Jolie had mobilized a legal
team to work on this and other child refugee cases pro bono -- filed immigration
papers on Monday to grant Young residency under the federal Special Immigrant
Juvenile Status law.

''It's my opinion he will get a green card,'' Don Cassidy, a lawyer for the
Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
Friday by telephone hookup to the court. ''I'd be very shocked if he didn't.''

Among the many legal entanglements the case presented, the United States Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia, has put aside, but could yet
rule on, a government appeal of a lower court decision staying Young's
deportation after he was detained at Newark Liberty International Airport in
June 2003.

Mr. Sullivan said he was working with immigration officials to ensure that the
process would not be disrupted by Young's birthday on April 23, when he turns 18
and could be deemed no longer subject to family court. The court's reach extends
to those up to 21 as long as they are in school, but if immigration authorities
take Young into custody after 18, he may be considered to be no longer in school
and therefore deportable.

Still, Mr. Sullivan said he was ''ecstatic'' with the outcome. ''We're going to
have a big party as soon as everything is official,'' he said.

Young, too, seemed overwhelmed. ''I thought it's going to take years to get
green card,'' he said.

''Well,'' Mr. Sullivan said, ''we're going to try to expedite it.''

In an account corroborated in court papers, Young said that when he was born in
Fu Zhou, his parents already had a 1-year-old daughter and with a second child,
his mother was forcibly sterilized. She was killed by a car while getting him
treats for his ninth birthday, he said.

His father remarried but Young said he did not get along with his stepmother, in
part because of the tax he was costing the family as a second child. When he was
14, he said, his father arranged with smugglers for his flight to Newark.

''My father told me he would take care of it,'' Young said. He found out later,
he said, that he was obligated to pay off the $60,000 debt to the smugglers.

Detained at the airport when his green card was exposed as fake, he was confined
in a youth center in Pennsylvania before the place was closed in an abuse
scandal. He was moved to a facility in Chicago, where, after good behavior, he
was released to live with an uncle, a cook in Akron, Ohio. At that point, Young
said, the snakeheads considered their part of the deal fulfilled and expected
him to start working off his debt. Instead, he went to school and became a
straight-A student.

He reported monthly to immigration officials, he said, until he was told he need
come in only every three months. But after a missed appointment, he said, he was
ordered to report and was arrested for deportation.

In the van to the airport, he broke free and ran two blocks before being
captured. At the airport, heading toward the plane, he smashed his head
repeatedly into a wall. ''I was in the hospital 10 hours,'' Young recalled on
Sunday. When he recovered, he said, he was flown to a detention facility in
Texas, where Mr. Sullivan took his case.

Young said he liked to play basketball -- he admires Yao Ming, the Houston
Rockets star, but said, ''Yao is not as fast as me'' -- and started attending
Mass with Mr. Sullivan, who has become a kind of guardian.

But Young said he was sticking to his goal of becoming a biologist, not a
lawyer.

''To be a lawyer, you have to be studying a lot of law,'' he said, ''and that's
not interesting for me.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A judge ruled Friday that Young Zheng, 17, had been abandoned by
his father in China, allowing him to seek residency in the United States. (Photo
by Mike Stravato for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 34 words


A credit yesterday with a front-page article about rallies in many cities by
immigrants and their supporters misstated the surname of a contributing reporter
in New York. She was Nina Bernstein, not Siegal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

21 Immigrants Fired After Missing Work for Rally

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN RUETHLING

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 11


At least 21 Mexican immigrants have been fired from their jobs at a meatpacking
company in Detroit for missing work to attend an immigration rights march last
month, advocates said Tuesday.

''This to me sends a very strong message that if you try to defend your rights,
there are going to be sanctions against you,'' said Elena Herrada, one of
several advocates trying to organize a meeting with officials of the company,
Wolverine Packing, in an effort to get some of the workers rehired.

The 21 workers were fired on March 28, a day after they attended a rally that
the police said drew more than 20,000 people. It was one of at least five
marches and rallies in major cities that day.

The Detroit affiliate of the Spanish-language television network Univision
reported the firings last week.

In a statement, the general manager of Wolverine Packing, Jay Bonahoom, said a
''small number'' of the more than 350 employees at three plants in the Detroit
area had requested permission to attend the march and had been allowed to miss
work. Employees had been notified orally and by letters posted in the plants
that they would be fired if they missed work without authorization, the
statement said.

''Many of these issues are near and dear to our hearts and can have serious
effects on our lives, but Wolverine cannot allow these issues to stop our
business,'' Mr. Bonahoom said. ''When a large number of employees leave on a
particular day, we cannot service our customers, and this puts all of our jobs
in jeopardy.''

One fired worker, Minerva Ramirez, 31, a native of Mexico who worked for
Wolverine for almost six years, said she had told her supervisor that she
planned to go to the march. But the day after the rally, Ms. Ramirez said, she
was barred from entering the plant and was not allowed to speak in her defense.

Ms. Ramirez said she hoped to return to her job as a meatpacker, which paid
$10.35 an hour.

Edith Castillo, the executive director of Latin Americans for Social and
Economic Development, a social services agency in Detroit, said she knew of a
handful of employees at two other businesses who had been fired after attending
the march.

''They were trying to exercise their right to protest, their right to have a
voice,'' Ms. Castillo said. ''I think we're going to see that this is just one
incident of many civil rights violations that these workers have endured.''

In Bellwood, Ill., 33 factory workers who had been fired after attending a rally
in Chicago on March 10 were rehired when the Interfaith Workers' Rights Center
intervened.

Alberto M. Benitez, a law professor and director of the immigration clinic at
George Washington University's law school in Washington, said employers were
dependent on labor by illegal workers who had little, if any, recourse if they
were fired.

''There are two or three potential employees available for every one of these
poor folks who were fired,'' he said. ''It's better for everyone if there is a
lawful protected class of workers and not this shadowy underground army of
workers that are here today, gone tomorrow.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wolverine Packing in Detroit said employees were told to get
permission before missing work. Minerva Ramirez was among those fired. (Photo by
Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 13, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

14 Years Later, 2 Killings Are Linked to Russian Mob

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words


Two young men were killed in Brooklyn in 1992. The cases were never solved.
There, the obvious similarities end.

Boris Roitman, 21, thought to be an informant for the police, was found beside a
tennis court in Gravesend, shot in the neck and chest. Thien Diep, 24, a
high-stakes pool player who had his own cue, was robbed, his body incinerated in
a vacant lot in Canarsie. Fourteen years passed.

Now prosecutors say both killings were tied to Eastern European organized crime.
In State Supreme Court in Brooklyn yesterday, they unsealed murder charges
against two men described as ambitious young immigrants intent on impressing
Boris Nayfeld, the legendary Brighton Beach heroin smuggler.

The men, Vitaly Ivanitsky, 32, and Marat Krivoi, 36, pleaded not guilty.

''Witnesses are willing to come forward where, 1992, no one was coming
forward,'' said Christopher Blank, an executive assistant district attorney.
''We have a combination of cooperating witnesses and civilian witnesses.''

In the decade or so since the decline of the Italian crime syndicate La Cosa
Nostra, prosecutors have confronted criminal enterprises established by
immigrants from former Soviet bloc nations. Last month, for example, in federal
court in Brooklyn, prosecutors charged two Russian organized crime figures with
plotting to kill Ukrainian businessmen, twins known as the Brothers Karamazov.

One of the men charged in that plot, Monya Elson, is a longstanding rival of Mr.
Nayfeld's from the early days of Russian organized crime in New York. He was
once charged in connection with an unexploded bomb found under Mr. Nayfeld's
car. In recent years, both Mr. Elson and Mr. Nayfeld started cooperating with
investigators to avoid prosecution.

Russian organized crime began with the bootleg gasoline business and has since
expanded to a range of criminal business lines, law enforcement officials say. A
1995 report by the Tri-State Joint Soviet-Emigre Organized Crime Project, a
consortium of law enforcement agencies in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania,
documented involvement in ''confidence schemes, financial crimes including money
laundering, counterfeiting and securities fraud, narcotics trafficking and an
assortment of vice crimes.''

The report also documented more than 70 murders.

For Mr. Ivanitsky and Mr. Krivoi, Mr. Blank said in an interview outside the
courtroom yesterday, violent crime provided a way to rise in the ranks. At the
time of the killings, court records show, Mr. Krivoi was married to Mr.
Nayfeld's daughter, Alyssa, and he led a small faction of young men working
loosely for his father-in-law.

''They were trying to garner the attention of the higher-ups,'' Mr. Blank said.
''Marat told them they had to get noticed; crimes of violence and murder will
get you noticed.''

In August 1992, Mr. Krivoi was free on bail awaiting trial in a shooting in a
parking lot on Long Island. Prosecutors said he ordered the killing of Mr.
Roitman, a member of his crew, because he suspected him of being a police
informant. The prosecutors said Mr. Ivanitsky was present, but court documents
mention an ''unnamed accomplice'' who shot Mr. Roitman.

A month later, the prosecutors said, Mr. Ivanitsky and Mr. Krivoi abducted Mr.
Diep from the Playboy pool hall on Coney Island Avenue near Avenue N. At
gunpoint, they took his money and his pool cue and drove him in his car to a
vacant lot, the prosecutors said. Medical examiners later determined that he had
been shot and his body had been burned inside the car. Firefighters did not
notice the body in the car, and it was found three days later by children on
bicycles.

Mr. Krivoi was convicted of the shooting on Long Island and is serving a prison
sentence. Mr. Ivanitsky, a Ukrainian immigrant, now operates used-car
businesses.

Mr. Ivanitsky was arrested in February on Ocean Avenue, according to F.B.I. and
police records filed in court. Accused of being in the car when Mr. Diep was
shot, investigators wrote, Mr. Ivanitsky ''nodded his head in agreement, but
would not answer verbally.''

After the hearing yesterday, both men were ordered held. A lawyer for Mr.
Ivanitsky, Barry Gene Rhodes, said his client was not a criminal.

''Didn't it sound like if he was a participant at all, he was a witness?'' Mr.
Rhodes said. ''He may be guilty of bad taste with his friends.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Give Me Your Talented '

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 183 words



To the Editor:

Steven Clemons and Michael Lind understate their case for high-skilled
immigrants. They present the possibility that more high-skilled immigrants would
drive down the wages of high-skilled workers in the United States as a potential
risk.

Actually, this would be the clear benefit of more immigrants, as any supporter
of free trade should immediately recognize.

Lower wages for doctors, physicists, economists and other highly skilled
professionals translate into lower prices for medical care and other consumer
items. This increases the real wages for unaffected workers, and raises economic
growth.

Real proponents of free trade would be vigorous advocates of removing
restrictions on highly skilled immigrants. In a genuinely open economy, it would
be as easy for a qualified Indian doctor to work in the United States as it is
to import blue jeans from Mexico.

Unfortunately, most ''free trade'' advocates only want less-skilled workers to
face international competition.

Dean Baker
Washington, April 10, 2006

The writer is co-director, Center for Economic and Policy Research.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Give Me Your Talented '

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 98 words



To the Editor:

Steven Clemons and Michael Lind are correct that it is too difficult for a
skilled worker to immigrate to the United States. But the Canadian ''points''
system is hardly a model to follow.

In the absence of employer-sponsorship requirements, high-tech immigrants to
Canada go primarily to Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver, even though Canada's
high-tech industry is concentrated in Ottawa and Calgary.

The result is not more innovation, but rather underemployment, since the ''brain
work'' never migrates to where the brains are.

Gabriel Desjardins
San Francisco, April 9, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vive La Dolce Vita

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN.

Roger Cohen writes the Globalist column for The International Herald Tribune.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD: SET WAYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: ROME


JUST before the Italian election one of the country's leading newspapers,
Corriere della Sera, led with an eye-catching headline: ''Italian Forces
Attacked in Afghanistan. An Architect Wounded.''

I did not read the article in detail, so I cannot tell you how this architect
came to volunteer to be with the Italian NATO contingent in Afghanistan. But his
presence in the western city of Herat was somehow comforting, even if what had
happened to him was not. Each country has its talents; Italy has a talent for
beauty. This attribute is not easily measurable: no online graphic can
illustrate it. Still, it is palpable, and an architect's cultural work in an
ancient Afghan town seemed to me part of a particular Italian disposition.

The modern world does not like such particularities. The rapid movement across
borders of capital, goods, labor, technologies and ideas -- the thing we call
globalization -- is a process of accelerated convergence. It brings many welcome
things, among them opportunity and cheap goods; it also stirs unease because its
stamp is sameness and its pre-eminent criterion efficiency.

This unease has been evident in Europe of late. French youth, invoking
revolution in the cause of stability, spent weeks in the street to protest and
ultimately overturn a law that would have given them jobs at the price of losing
existing guarantees against the abrupt termination of employment.

The proposal smacked too much of ''precariousness'' for the French. That is to
say, it smacked too much of the market, of capitalism, of globalization, for it
is in the nature of all these things to be changeable, dynamic and ultimately
precarious. They opted, in short, for security over risk, a choice many
Americans find puzzling.

Italians, too, are unhappy with the advance of ''precariousness.'' This is still
a society where a central goal is to be ''sistemato'' -- secured in a paid
position, preferably not too labor intensive, that can be held for life and, if
possible, passed on to the children.

But is such deep attachment to stability tenable? The general consensus is no.
For Italy to survive in a global economy, now that it can no longer devalue the
lira to boost its exports, it must become more efficient, more flexible, more
precarious. It must dislodge the ''sistemati'' or get them to work harder. The
same is true in much of the rest of Europe.

Such stasis is anathema to Americans, for whom risk, movement and personal
ambition are fundamental. Immigrants, who propel constant shifts, protested,
too, in recent days, but their banners, saying ''We Are America,'' proclaimed an
essential truth: The United States is about the endless possibility of
self-reinvention through hard work. It is inseparable from change.

When I became an American citizen last year, I was given a short English test in
the form of a dictation. The first sentence was: ''I want to be a good
American.'' The second was: ''I plan to work very hard every day.''

No subtleties here: The prevailing ethos, the one that has carried generations
of immigrants to prosperity, is inculcated from Day 1. ''Americans are always at
the new frontier, risking all, at least in our imaginations,'' said Robert
Paxton, a historian of France. ''But the French have not had a new frontier
since the Middle Ages.''

One way to view the French demonstrations and those by illegal immigrants in the
United States, in fact, is as two faces of globalization: that of upheaval,
resented by many Europeans, and that of possibility, embraced by Mexicans
pouring over the border in search of work.

Italians tend to see more threat than possibility in the global forces
propelling change. ''We need to develop a more entrepreneurial spirit,'' said
Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the chairman of the automaker Fiat. He was at the
Roman restaurant Piperno, which makes the best artichokes on earth, but that is
another story, and one of art rather than efficiency. ''We need more competition
in universities, in our utilities, everywhere, but I doubt any leader can
deliver that.''

Who that leader will be after a knife-edge election is still not clear. Romano
Prodi's left-of-center ''Union'' alliance won. Silvio Berlusconi, the right-wing
prime minister, has refused to accept defeat. Political paralysis seems
inevitable.

For energetic proponents of Italian change, that's bad news. But I wonder if
this elaborate construct for immobility is not another expression of Italian
genius, a way tens of millions of people have found to say that movement is
unwelcome, especially of the abrupt kind.

France is also wary of change. There are many hugely successful entrepreneurs --
it is a French word, after all -- but the idea that one of them could become a
national hero in the Bill Gates mode is unthinkable. So, too, is the notion that
one of them might step into the political fray to explain why jobs with the risk
of being fired may be better than no jobs at all.

Big enterprises, at some level, are about exploitation in France; the country's
heroic narrative involves equality just as America's involves making it from
nothing, as the millions of illegal immigrants working now as gardeners or cooks
are trying to do.

Italy has more time for entrepreneurs than France, and its northern third is one
of the most productive areas in the world. But having lived the rise and fall of
empire, that is to say of ambition, it is deeply attached to ''dolce far
niente'' -- a pleasurable idleness woven into the texture of life.

As it happened, I read about the injured architect in the crumbling grounds of a
small tennis club I frequented as a Rome-based correspondent more than 20 years
ago. I'd not been back in a long time; it was reassuring to find it unchanged.

Or almost. The garden was a little more weed-ridden, the white plastic chairs a
little dirtier, the wall a little more smothered in graffiti from rival soccer
fans. And Luigi Olini, the kind caretaker, was dead, having succumbed to cancer
on Feb. 26, 1994, as his widow, Assunta, told me. ''Nothing you can do about
that illness,'' she said with a shrug. ''And here, things are about the same.
There are some new members. They come and play at 1 o'clock, because, you know,
they have to work in the morning.''

Yes, I know, morning work, an unfortunate thing. I gazed at the club, a little
miracle of inertia, prime real estate in the midst of Rome that the market and
globalization and restless American ambition would have gobbled years ago and
replaced with condos and a pool. Who was to say Italy was wrong to resist all
that?

Assunta told me she still lived in an apartment at the club. Her two sons, ages
44 and 39, live with her. She's ''sistemata,'' in a modest way, and so are her
two big boys.

Those middle-aged men living with their mother are a little unusual, but only a
little: Italian children leave home at an average age of 28. In a recent ruling,
the Italian Supreme Court said a father could not cut off financial support to
his daughter at the age of 26 even though she had a degree because of ''the
concrete difficulties today of young people in finding economic
self-sufficiency.''

Of course, that self-sufficiency might become more attainable if Italy accepted
the modern world and swept away its islands of inertia. But then that little
club would disappear and something of family life.

So, too, would the perfect bowl of rigatoni al pomodoro that Assunta served in
the spring sun. Globalization has noplace for such ''dolce far niente.'' No
wonder it is a contested process, here and in other less sunlit places with
their own particularities of style and work and habit.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ross MacDonald)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Sex Offenders Arrested

BYLINE: NYT; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 94 words


Federal agents yesterday arrested 52 immigrants convicted of sexual crimes
against children, said Martin D. Ficke, special agent in charge of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement. In cooperation with city probation officials, the
arrests were made as the immigrants arrived for scheduled appointments with
their probation officers. The immigrants, who face deportation to 14 countries,
including China, Italy, Mexico and Norway, were on probation for crimes
including rape, sodomy and sexual abuse, Mr. Ficke said. The oldest victim was
16 and the youngest 2, he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Terror Jury Hears Talk Of Bombing Subway Stop

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 585 words


A fuller picture emerged yesterday of an alleged plot to bomb the Herald Square
subway station and of the Pakistani immigrant charged as its prime author, as
prosecutors again played secretly recorded conversations between the man and a
police informer.

The conversations, played for a jury in federal District Court in Brooklyn,
captured the immigrant, Shahawar Matin Siraj, 23, telling the informer he
expected that the blast in the subway station would bring down the Manhattan
Mall on the street above.

But in another conversation, he seems to suggest to the informer that the bomb
could be as small as a bottle of soda, tossed into a garbage can on the subway
station's platform. He said he wanted to bomb the station in the early morning
hours to cause only economic damage and kill as few people as possible, but he
was willing to let the explosion kill the homeless people who spend the night
there.

These contradictions were among several that emerged from Mr. Siraj's sometimes
rambling, disjointed and often angry statements, which also suggested that he
has a grandiose view of his own talents as a terrorist plotter. In fact, he
offered a critical assessment of al Qaeda, saying its members carry out suicide
attacks because they are poor planners.

''That is what I don't like about them,'' he said on Aug. 18, 2004, just nine
days before he and a co-conspirator, James Elshafay, were arrested and charged
in the plot. Mr. Elshafay, 21, has pleaded guilty and is expected to testify.

Yesterday, jurors listened attentively to the recorded conversations between Mr.
Siraj and the police informer, Osama Eldawoody, 50. It was the second day that
prosecutors have played selections from more than 30 hours of digital recordings
from the summer of 2004.

Using government transcripts, the jurors seemed to follow the heavily accented
conversations carefully, and then one of the prosecutors, Todd Harrison, would
question Mr. Eldawoody about the recorded discussions.

The government has sought to portray Mr. Siraj as a dangerous man bent on
carrying out a devastating attack. His lawyers, however, contend that the young
man, who came to New York from Karachi, Pakistan, in 1999 to join his parents,
was duped.

They have said that when a fuller picture is presented, it will be clear that
Mr. Siraj was manipulated by the police informer, who they contend orchestrated
the plot for money, nearly $100,000 that the Police Department paid him over two
years and nine months, much of it while he was working on this case.

One of Mr. Siraj's lawyers, Martin R. Stolar, has called him ''not the brightest
bulb on the chandelier.''

On the tapes played yesterday, Mr. Siraj seemed to alternate between shrewd,
bumbling and bizarre. In one conversation, he told Mr. Eldawoody that he had
masqueraded as a homeless man to examine the security in the subway station. He
looked for surveillance cameras and, though he saw none, he told Mr. Eldawoody
that he could not believe there was not a tighter security cordon.

''I cannot find no security over there, it's impossible,'' he said. ''If there
is no security, it means there is a high security over there. No security means
high security. That's a trap.''

He also said he would shave his beard and wear New York Yankee apparel to
disguise himself for a later surveillance mission.

At another point in the conversation, he seemed convinced that some sort of plot
had been set in motion against a mosque at East 96th Street and Third Avenue in
Manhattan.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Enters Anthem Fight On Language

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28


President Bush has never been shy about speaking Spanish in public, and he is
known to love all kinds of music: country, folk and even Tex-Mex style rock. But
one thing you will not find on his iPod: ''Nuestro Himno,'' the new Spanish
version of the national anthem that was released on Friday as part of the
growing immigrants' rights movement.

Asked at a news briefing in the Rose Garden on Friday whether he believed the
anthem would have the same value in Spanish as it did in English, Mr. Bush said
flatly, ''No, I don't.''

''And I think people who want to be a citizen of this country ought to learn
English,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And they ought to learn to sing the national anthem
in English.''

Mr. Bush has tried to occupy a middle ground in the raging debate over
immigration, supporting legislation that would grant immigrant workers temporary
legal status and perhaps a path to citizenship, while pushing for immigrants to
learn English also pressing for more steps to stop the flow of newcomers over
the border. But his statement about the anthem was taken by members of both
parties as a clear signal to conservatives that he stood with them on what many
of them see as a clash between national identity and multiculturalism.

His remarks touched directly on the divide over the impact of immigrants on the
nation's culture, crystallized this time by the release of the Spanish version
of the anthem, loosely translated and featuring Spanish-language stars like
Gloria Trevi and Carlos Ponce.

Adam Kidron, chief executive of the label that released the new version of the
anthem, Urban Box Office Records, said in a statement that the song helped those
who did not speak English ''to fully understand the character of 'The
Star-Spangled Banner,' the American flag and the ideals of freedom that they
represent.''

The song, which includes some departures from the original lyrics, was
distributed to Spanish-language radio stations, many of which have been
encouraging huge numbers of protesters to take to the streets in recent weeks.
Another large action is scheduled for many cities on Monday, when some immigrant
rights groups are calling for a nationwide economic boycott.

The anthem has fed into a backlash on talk radio, the Internet, cable television
and Capitol Hill, with conservatives complaining that it was encouraging the
very cultural balkanization that they have feared all along.

Mr. Bush's comments were striking for a president who has embraced Spanish in
his political life. Mr. Bush grew up in Midland, Tex., alongside
Spanish-speaking children. As a politician who became governor and ran for
president aiming to build a broader Republican coalition, he seized every chance
to win over the fast-growing Hispanic population.

''He recognized that Texas was rapidly becoming a state that would have more
Hispanics and more African-Americans than it would Anglos,'' said Senator Lamar
Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, who plans to introduce a resolution on
Monday ''to remind the country'' why the national anthem should be always sung
in English.

Mr. Bush took aim at Hispanics as an important voting bloc during the last two
president campaigns. Mr. Bush has starred in his own Spanish-language
advertising, and he was the first president to give his weekly radio address in
Spanish. (The Spanish wire service Agencia EFE once said he spoke the language
poorly, ''but with great confidence.'')

Mr. Bush ventured into a little Spanish on Friday, using the Spanish
pronunciation for the smugglers known as ''coyotes'' while outlining the need
for stricter border enforcement.

Democrats and Republicans alike said Mr. Bush seemed to be making clear to
conservatives -- for the grassroots and for those in Congress opposing guest
worker and citizenship provisions in the immigration legislation -- that there
were limits to his support for the pro-immigration agenda. Should the Senate
pass immigration legislation this year that creates a guest worker program and a
path to citizenship for some workers in the United States illegally --
provisions that most conservatives oppose -- Mr. Bush would play a main role in
working on a deal with the House, which has passed a bill that addresses just
border security.

''The president is working hard to try to pass the bill, and he's thrown a bone
to the right here,'' said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democrat
Network, a centrist group that focuses on Hispanic issues.

White House officials said Mr. Bush was not being politically calculating and
has always believed that new immigrants should embrace the national language and
culture.

Mr. Bush made his comments in a wide-ranging session with reporters in which he
also said he opposed calls for a windfall-profits tax on oil companies.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, at a White House news conference yesterday,
says immigrants should learn to sing the national anthem in English. (Photo by
Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 Carlos Ponce, left, with Armando Perez, a hip-hop star known as Pitbull, during
the recording of a Spanish-language national anthem. (Photo by Wilfredo
Lee/Associated Press)(pg. A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Panicked By Rumors Of Raids

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Terry Aguayo, in Florida, and Gretchen Ruethling, in
Wisconsin, contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words


False rumors of random federal immigration raids have sent panic through
immigrant communities around the country this week, emptying classrooms, work
sites and shopping areas and sending thousands of people into hiding.

Towns in New Jersey and on Long Island have been among those most affected by
the snowballing fear, say immigrant advocates and public officials, who
described terrified mothers pulling their children from a Head Start program in
Freehold, N.J., and deserted streets in usually bustling areas of West
Hempstead, N.Y. The officials said they had received a flood of hysterical
inquiries about raids at specific construction sites, factories, stores and
intersections in Newark and Elizabeth, N.J., in the Suffolk County community of
Brentwood, and on Connecticut's highways -- all of them unfounded.

But the pattern of rumor and panic has played out nationwide. It was apparently
set off by last week's announcement by Michael Chertoff, the secretary of
Homeland Security, that the arrest of more than 1,180 employees of IFCO Systems
of North America in 26 states was the start of a new crackdown on employers of
illegal immigrants.

Spanish-language television and radio accounts of rumored raids may have lent
credence to people's fears, as did a bulletin the American Immigration Lawyers
Association sent to its members, citing the reports of raids as consistent with
the federal agency's new direction.

Whatever their source or intent, the rumors have given an unintended jump-start
to a nationwide boycott many groups have planned for Monday -- a day on which
immigrants are being urged to stay away from work and to refrain from shopping
to protest legislation that would make it a felony to stay in the United States
without proper papers. At the same time, some immigrant advocates fear the scare
will keep people away from public demonstrations called as an alternative to the
boycott.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement offices have been deluged with inquiries
about reports of random raids, from pizza parlors to construction sites, said
Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman. Many denials, she said, have failed to stem the
rumors.

''We just don't go out and randomly stop and arrest people,'' she said.

An agency statement added, ''ICE's enforcement actions are carefully planned
operations that result from investigative leads and intelligence, with priority
given to violations involving national security and criminal activity."

In Madison, Wis., where fears spiked on Monday, one-third to one-half of Latino
pupils stayed home, school officials estimated, and groundless accounts that
federal authorities had demanded workers' identification at local businesses,
including Wal-Marts, kept many adults at home. In South Florida, construction
sites emptied by midweek, and a high-risk pregnancy clinic found its immigrant
patients canceling appointments in droves.

''It's happening all over the country,'' said Partha Banerjee, director of the
New Jersey Immigration Policy Network, whose advocates were overwhelmed with
vivid and detailed reports of immigration roundups that, after hours of inquiry,
proved to be baseless. ''People are so scared that they are taking no chances --
they are basically running for their lives,'' Mr. Banerjee said.

Luis Montes, chief of staff for Philip Ramos, a Democratic state assemblyman who
represents Central Islip, on Long Island, said that on Tuesday afternoon he
dashed from one reported site of a federal raid to the next, from the ADP
packaging factory in Edgewood to a 7-Eleven, a drugstore, construction sites and
several restaurants in Brentwood where Latino immigrants typically gather. All
of the reports proved unfounded.

''When rumors start spreading, people who are undocumented, they just flee the
site; they go and hide,'' Mr. Montes said. ''Then because others don't see
anyone there, they think the place was raided.''

At some point, advocates began to suspect a campaign to frighten demonstrators
away from the protest rallies planned for Monday. They even worried that
vigilantes could be impersonating federal immigration agents. But after days of
tracking down rumors, Mr. Banerjee, Rich Cunningham of the advocacy group New
Labor, and Chung Wha-Hong, director of the New York Immigration Coalition, found
little more of substance than a single traffic stop by the police and van
inspections by state transportation officials.

Freehold was a special case. Hundreds of state, county and local law enforcement
agents gathered there for an evacuation drill at the Monmouth County Jail early
Wednesday, sending already skittish immigrants into a paroxysm of fear.
Helicopters hovered overhead, the highway was blockaded, and at a bus stop, a
man wearing a black shirt that said ''Security'' checked I.D.'s and turned away
people who had only foreign documents, according to Rita Dentino, a volunteer on
the steering committee of Casa Freehold, an advocacy center.

Ms. Dentino learned only later that the whole operation was an elaborate drill
for an evacuation of prisoners in case of a jail fire, and had been announced in
advance in a brief news item in the local newspaper. By then, she said, parents
had rushed to the Head Start group in a Baptist church, not only to scoop up
their children and flee, but also to erase their names from the cubbies and
walls out of fear that immigration agents would track them home.

''You have this town of roughly 13,000 people that became a ghost town within a
matter of a couple of hours,'' Ms. Dentino said. ''The whole town was
terrorized. Nobody was on the street. It was a day without immigrants in
Freehold, without it being planned as such.''

Crystal Williams, deputy director of programs for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, said its bulletin about reported raids was never meant as
confirmation.

''We did not intend to feed the rumor mill,'' she said. ''Our intent was to find
out what was really going on.'' Because of Mr. Chertoff's announcement, she
said: ''Everyone is highly sensitized and looking out for this kind of thing
now. Now the agency is telling us that what he meant was criminal prosecutions
and not raids.''

Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in
Miami, is still looking into rumors. ''The community is paralyzed,'' she said.
''I haven't seen this kind of fear in the immigrant community ever. Immigrants
are afraid of going to work, of taking their kids to school, of leaving the
home. People are not going to important medical appointments. There are pregnant
women canceling their prenatal care appointments because they feel immigration
will be waiting for them there.''

Some immigrant advocates see an eerie reversal of the groundswell that
emboldened tens of thousands to take to the streets in protest last month, and a
frightening glimpse of the future if Congress enacts pending measures that would
require the local police to enforce federal immigration law and add criminal
penalties to what are now civil violations.

''That is my fear,'' Mr. Banerjee said. ''That if these laws pass in Congress,
that is going to be tomorrow's America.''

Supporters of the measures say that illegal immigrants should feel fearful.
''People should feel uncomfortable about breaking the law,'' said Ira Mehlman, a
spokesman for the Federation of American Immigration Reform, which advocates
sharp restrictions on immigration. ''If we have a policy that is demonstrated to
be consistent, many people will get the message and decide that remaining here
in the United States illegally isn't worth the price that they have to pay.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Immigrants Deserve

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 120 words



To the Editor:

In ''The Immigration Impasse'' (editorial, April 25), you support ''the option
of citizenship for those in the shadow population who want and deserve to become
Americans.''

Let's not forget that these immigrants are illegal. We do have immigration laws,
and they broke the laws.

So, what do immigrants ''deserve''? Immigrants deserve the chance to become
Americans by completing the immigration process legally. Those who choose to
follow the rules deserve to be rewarded. Illegal immigrants deserve punishment
for breaking a law.

But all immigrants, legal and illegal, deserve an apology from America for not
being serious enough about its laws to enforce them.

Nathan Guinn
Greenville, S.C., April 25, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Way North of the Border

BYLINE: By SUSAN WARNER

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2263 words

DATELINE: BRIDGETON


NOE and his wife, Yolanda, crept over the border from Mexico through Texas in a
car six years ago, bound for work in the tomato and blueberry fields of New
Jersey. Noe would have liked to stay in Texas because it was closer to home, but
the North beckoned.

''There's more money the more north you go,'' he said. ''Mexicans will go to the
farthest place in the world, if they can make more money.''

Noe, 28, and Yolanda, 27, now have two small sons. Noe has worked his way up
from the fields to factory jobs, including a stint in a turkey processing plant.

He learned English, and now works in construction. Someday, he hopes, he will
own a construction company.

Noe also dreams of going back home to visit, but that is just a dream.

''I cannot go to Mexico, I would never be able to come back,'' he said over a
Sunday dinner of tacos and beans at Tacos Bravos, a roadside restaurant in this
Cumberland County city that is filled with Mexican songs on the jukebox. Noe and
Yolanda, who would not give their last names, are among the surging population
of Mexicans living and working in New Jersey illegally.

As Mexican immigrants, legal and illegal, became bolder and more emphatic in
their demands for inclusion in American society at rallies nationwide this
spring, the current debate over a national immigration policy has increasing
importance in New Jersey.

Mexicans now make up about 20 percent of the state's estimated population of
355,000 illegal aliens, up from about 10 percent in 2000, according to the Pew
Hispanic Center in Washington. In 1990, the number of Mexicans living illegally
in the state was negligible, said Jeffrey S. Passel, a senior research associate
at the center. Now New Jersey ranks eighth in the nation in the number of
residents born in Mexico, he said, and about 75,000 are illegal immigrants.

''We have seen a huge increase,'' said Daniel Santo Pietro, executive director
of the Hispanic Directors Association of New Jersey, a nonprofit umbrella
organization of Latino social service groups. ''New Jersey is now a magnet
because it does offer some very good work opportunities.''

For decades, New Jersey drew migrant farmworkers from Mexico, Puerto Rico and
Central America. Many worked summers, illegally or in guest worker programs,
then returned home in the winter after the crops were harvested.

After the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, control over the border with Mexico
was tightened, forcing Mexican workers to choose between the two countries. As a
result, more Mexicans are making New Jersey a year-round home, working in a
range of businesses that includes restaurants, hotels, food-processing factories
and construction.

''What's happened with Mexicans, specifically, is they have diversified
remarkably around the United States,'' Mr. Passel said. He said a recession in
California in the early 1990's forced Mexican workers to look to other parts of
the country for opportunity.

At the same time, anti-immigrant sentiment was growing in California, said
Douglas S. Massey, a professor of sociology at Princeton University. Proposition
187, a 1994 ballot proposal that would have denied social services and public
education to illegal aliens, was approved by 59 percent of the voters, but was
ultimately overturned in the courts.

''California has ceased to be the overwhelming destination,'' Professor Massey
said. ''Now Mexicans are going to places all over the country, and many of these
places have never experienced Mexican immigrants before.''

From 1985 to 1990, two-thirds of all Mexican immigrants settled in California,
Professor Massey said, but from 1995 to 2005, that figure dropped to one-third.

Jose, another illegal Mexican immigrant in Bridgeton who would not give his last
name, said he worked in California for five years before moving to New Jersey
seven years ago to work in the produce business. ''Not so many people are going
to California,'' he said. ''They are going to all places.''

The New York Gateway

  In New Jersey, the number of Mexican immigrants more than quadrupled in five
counties during the 1990's, according to the State Department of Labor and
Workforce Development. Cumberland had an increase of 560 percent, Ocean 474
percent, Atlantic 401 percent, Monmouth 363 percent and Middlesex 335 percent.
Four counties -- Passaic, Middlesex, Hudson and Monmouth -- are home to a total
of 53.6 percent of the Mexican immigrants in the state, according to the 2000
census.

New York City has increasingly become a gateway for Mexicans, creating an
overflow into New Jersey, Professor Massey said.

New Jersey, in effect, has two distinct Mexican immigrant populations, he said.
In the north, there is an urban group with ties to New York City, including a
large number of Mexican natives in Paterson. More recently, Mexicans have
arrived in the central and southern parts of the state, in rural and suburban
areas where demand for low-wage workers is high.

In Ocean, Monmouth and Morris Counties, disputes have developed between Mexican
immigrant day laborers and municipalities seeking to restrict people from
gathering at street corners and parking lots to wait for employers to pick them
up. Here in Cumberland County, second- and third-generation Mexican-Americans,
whose predecessors initially came to work in the fields, have begun to put down
roots and are attracting new immigrants to live and work in a community filled
with Mexican culture.

At Casa Sosa, a variety store on Commerce Street in downtown Bridgeton, the
owner, Praxedis Sosa, caters to the newcomers. He sells phone cards and money
orders, hats with the insignias of Mexican soccer teams, Mexican DVD's, straw
sombreros, blue jeans and cowboy boots.

Mr. Sosa arrived from Mexico 30 years ago, worked in warehouses in Brooklyn and
eventually won United States citizenship in an amnesty program. Three years ago,
he opened the store. ''There are so many people coming, but there are problems
with the government,'' he said. ''I don't know why. Mexicans are doing the jobs
in New Jersey that nobody wants to do.''

A Source of Tension

  But Frank Shallis, who owns a small elevator-repair and manufacturing firm in
Bound Brook, sees New Jersey's rising Mexican population as a huge problem.

Mr. Shallis is state coordinator of the New Jersey chapter of the Minuteman
Civil Defense Corps, which conducts volunteer patrols of the country's borders
with Mexico and Canada. He has already done a stint on the Canadian border and
is planning a trip to the Arizona border to try to keep Mexicans from entering
the United States illegally. ''In New Jersey there are Mexicans everywhere you
look,'' Mr. Shallis said. ''It's adding so much to the cost of everything --
schooling, medical, social services. It's just unfair to law-abiding, tax-paying
American citizens.''

Frank Argote-Freyre, a member of the Hispanic Directors Association from
Monmouth County, who negotiated a dispute over where immigrants seeking day work
could gather in Freehold, said the tensions were rooted in a failed national
immigration policy that looks the other way when employers need workers, then
denies immigrants legal protection.

''There is inertia in Congress, and cowardliness in Congress,'' he said. ''The
lack of responsibility in establishing an immigration policy has led us to these
problems. Obviously, industry wants these workers. So to target them is just
wrong. It's narrow-minded, and the reason a lot of local municipalities have
injected themselves into these problems is a total lack of leadership in
Washington.''

Deborah Dowdell, president of the New Jersey Restaurant Association, a trade
group, said its members rely on Mexican workers because the state's population
of young people, a traditional source of restaurant workers, is not keeping pace
with rising demand. The need for restaurant employees is growing one and a half
times faster than the work force as a whole, she said.

''We're constantly battling these challenges,'' Ms. Dowdell said, ''and
immigration is one of the ways in which the industry hopes to have access to
workers.''

By law, employers are required to make a good-faith effort to document that
workers have proper papers, said Keith Talbot, senior attorney here in Bridgeton
with the Farmworker Project, a program run by Legal Services of New Jersey. But
many illegal immigrants have fake documents, he said.

''We have created an off-the-books culture,'' Mr. Talbot said.

The growing number of illegal immigrants has also contributed to an increase in
complaints that employers are refusing to pay workers, he said. Many employers
are using subcontractors, particularly in the construction industry, to hire
illegal workers, believing it will shield them from penalties for wage and hour
regulations.

Some subcontractors, he said, withhold payment from illegal workers because they
think the workers are afraid to challenge employers and risk deportation. ''When
workers don't get paid, that really riles them,'' Mr. Talbot said. ''That's when
they come forward and approach legal services, more than any other complaints,
including housing or discrimination.''

He cited the case of a Mexican immigrant, whose immigration case is pending, who
won a $2,000 settlement for unpaid construction wages and has been waiting for
more than a year to be paid.

Though some illegal immigrants from Mexico have been moving up the ladder from
field work to landscaping to jobs in construction, they are generally not making
the leap to home ownership or starting their own businesses as easily as
immigrants who came to the United States legally. Their legal status keeps them
from receiving bank loans and other government approvals for businesses, said
Mr. Passel of the Pew Center.

''If you're undocumented, it's hard,'' he said. ''There are some financial
institutions that seem to be developing ways to make home loans to undocumented
immigrants, but that's a new phenomenon.''

He said that nearly all men who have come to the United States illegally from
Mexico have jobs that withhold taxes and Social Security based on fake Social
Security documents. An estimated $5 billion to $6 billion a year is being
withheld from their wages, he said.

In New Jersey, Assemblyman Joseph Vas is trying to give illegal immigrants some
status with a proposed Driving Privilege Card. The card would require applicants
to pass a written exam and driving test, but could not be used as a form of
primary identification.

Mr. Santo Pietro, of the Hispanic Directors Association of New Jersey, said that
Latino advocates began calling for a driving card, like those available in 11
other states, to prevent accidents. A Mexican woman was killed in Freehold while
walking to work along a busy highway because she could not get her driver's
license renewed, he said.

Mr. Vas said the card could help prevent similar cases.

''There are increasing numbers of unlicensed drivers on the road, and it's a
problem that is leading to unsafe conditions,'' he said. ''In my opinion, this
is the morally correct thing, in light of what these people are providing in
contributions to our economy.''

Living Here in Limbo

  The rise in illegal immigrants is creating a new generation of New Jersey
residents who came to the state from Mexico as children but turn into
undocumented adults at age 21. Though they had no say in the decision to live in
the United States, they are in a legal limbo.

Mr. Passel said that about two-thirds of the children of illegal immigrants from
Mexico are born in the United States and are citizens. But they often fail to
apply for services to which they may be entitled, for fear of drawing attention
to their parents' status.

For many, it is easier to remain under the radar than to risk exposing family
members to legal hassles and, possibly, deportation.

For the one in three children of illegal immigrants who were born in Mexico and
then brought here, life is more complicated. They remain noncitizens, and
although they can attend school and receive medical care at hospitals, when they
reach 21 they run into the same problems that confront their parents.

''They've played by the rules, they've gone to school and grown up in the United
States, but after they graduate they're still undocumented immigrants,'' said
Mr. Passel, who estimated that 65,000 children of illegal Mexican immigrants to
the United States become undocumented adults each year.'

Marisol Conde-Hernandez, 19, is among them. Her parents brought her to New
Jersey when she was just 18 months old, and the family settled near Princeton.
Her grandfather had come ahead and worked in the fields to raise money to bring
her family to the United States. Later, her grandfather and father, and
eventually Marisol, worked in restaurants owned by Greek immigrants.

''I knew I was undocumented, and my parents knew not to tell anybody,'' she
said. ''But I was always different. If I got sick I had to go to the emergency
room. We didn't have a private doctor.''

One year she was invited to attend a summer program at Princeton University, but
she could not go because the application required her parents' Social Security
numbers.

Now Ms. Conde-Hernandez is a student at Middlesex County College in Edison,
where she is studying sociology with the hope of becoming a lawyer.

''All I want to do is go to school and pay taxes,'' Ms. Conde-Hernandez said.
''I want to get a tax return. I want to be able to drive, and I want to work. I
want to get everything straight. I'm so tired of living under the table.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Casa Sosa, above, a store in Bridgeton, caters to Mexican
immigrants. Youths at a rally in Trenton last month sought support for
legislation intended to help illegal immigrants get an education. (Photo by Mary
Godleski for The New York Times)
(Photo by Keith Meyers for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In Bridgeton, where several businesses serve a growing number of Mexican
immigrants: Cielo Figueroa, 5, top, on a children's ride
above, outside a dollar store
and, at left, Sheila Garcia has her hair styled by Nancy Zamorano at Teresa's
Estetica Mexicana. Marisol Conde-Hernandez, 19, above left, at the education
rally in Trenton, is studying sociology at Middlesex County College. (Photos by
Mary Godleski for The New York Times)
(Photo by Keith Meyers for The New York Times)
 Frank Shallis of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps says the state's rising
Mexican population is a huge problem. (Photo by Aaron Houston for The New York
Times)(pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Between Gags, a D.J. Rallies Immigrants

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1235 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


IT'S the rush hour, and that means Eduardo Sotelo, Los Angeles's highest-rated
morning radio show host, must be up to something.

One moment he's crank-calling a young listener's boyfriend, posing as her irate
father. (The girl later explains to the boyfriend that she's not really
pregnant.) Another he's asking a lobby guard to demand a $100 bribe from three
visitors he is expecting from Fresno before letting them into the studio. (The
visitors pay, and the money is later returned.)

Such pranks -- and jokes, music, interviews and help-line-type calls from
listeners -- have catapulted Mr. Sotelo, known as Piolin, to the top of the
radio heap. His nationally syndicated ''Piolin por la Manana'' (''Piolin in the
Morning'') is heard not only in Los Angeles, where his show on Univision Radio's
KSCA-FM beats all competitors in Spanish or English, including Ryan Seacrest,
but in 18 other markets six days a week.

Mr. Sotelo, 35, is a comedian better known as Piolin or Tweety Bird because of
his plump lips and short stature. But now Tweety Bird, the entertainer, has
become Tweety Bird, the political figure and catalyst of the newly galvanized
immigrant rights movement.

Last March, when his guests included the organizers of a march in Los Angeles
against a pending bill in Congress that would make it a felony to be in this
country illegally, Mr. Sotelo deemed the bill ''inhumane.'' After all, he too
slipped into the country illegally, on foot and stuffed in the trunk of a car.

''If we have jobs, that means that they need us in this country,'' he said in an
interview. ''Our people suffer when they don't have documents. Our relatives die
in Mexico, and we can't go to bury them. To hear immigrants called criminals
pains me.''

When he called up his competitors on Spanish-language radio to set an example of
unity and to plot a course of action, about a dozen of the disc jockeys and
radio personalities responded. They urged listeners not only to march but also
to make a good impression: they asked participants to wear peaceful white
T-shirts, wave American flags and bring trash bags to pick up after themselves.

In a stunning turnout, more than half a million of them did.

Now, to honor the next major pro-immigrant action -- a May 1 boycott of work,
school and shopping to show the economic strength of immigrants -- Mr. Sotelo's
seven-hour show will not be broadcast tomorrow. The station will play music
while he joins two marches in downtown Los Angeles, one of them organized by the
Roman Catholic archdiocese. Mr. Sotelo announced his plans on Thursday and
immediately spurred calls from other D.J.'s in Dallas, Nashville and Las Vegas
vowing to go silent too.

''He's definitely risen to an extremely important position of outreach that the
movement hasn't had for years,'' said Jesse Diaz, a organizer of the
pro-immigrant march and boycott. ''He's a vehicle for the message of the
movement, a message of dignity, of peace and of hope.''

Mr. Sotelo, who is surprisingly serious in person, says he is not entirely
comfortable in his new shoes. He first tried to stay neutral on the polarizing
boycott, but changed his mind. Mindful of his influence, he said: ''I feel a
great responsibility, and I should be careful. I'm not going to do things
because a politician or anyone else who calls me talks to me. I'll only do what
comes from my heart.''

He now appears at press conferences alongside Catholic bishops and union
leaders, and he has become a media darling, sought after by American television
networks and international publications to speak for the illegal immigrant.

''How do you feel now about being a political leader?'' a television interviewer
for ''Despierta America,'' Univision's early morning show, asked him last week.

''I don't consider myself political,'' he said. ''I'm one more immigrant who has
come to the United States looking for a better life, a person who brings one
more brick to the construction of our unity here.''

But in heavily Latino cities like Los Angeles, Mr. Sotelo and other popular
''locutores'' like Renan Almendarez Coello (''el Cucuy'' or ''the Boogeyman'')
hold sway over their audience the way Rush Limbaugh and Lou Dobbs do with
theirs, but as a counterpart to the conservative media chatter in English.

And in showing what can happen when radio jocks turn serious, those familiar
with the power of radio say, Mr. Sotelo is a reminder that even in the age of
iPods and blogs, radio is as effective as ever.

''We can't underestimate the power of people who spend hour after hour a day
speaking in this intimate, candid way,'' said Robert Thompson, professor of
popular culture at Syracuse University.

That power is more concentrated in Spanish because of fewer outlets, and while
Mr. Sotelo and the others are undoubtedly treated like celebrities -- they are
stopped on the street for autographs and photographs and a couple of them have
stars on Hollywood's Walk of Fame -- they are also regarded as friends.

''When people don't know an emergency number, they call the radio station,''
Jackie Madrigal, Latin format editor for Radio & Records, a trade publication,
said of Spanish radio listeners. ''The audience sees them not just as
celebrities, but as 'my buddy.' ''

But during lulls in all the silliness, Mr. Sotelo brings to the politically
charged immigration debate the weight of his personal story and the success he
has achieved. He left poverty in Jalisco, Mexico, at 16 in 1986; paid a smuggler
for a harrowing passage in which he ran across a freeway, and spent hours
gasping for air in the trunk of a car. He then worked menial jobs, recycling
cans, washing cars and cleaning apartments while attending a Santa Ana high
school and breaking into radio in the early 1990's.

HE said he and his father, mother and two brothers now live legally in this
country, and he plans to become a citizen this year.

An estimated 11 million people reside illegally in this country, and Congress is
wrestling with immigration bills in the middle of an emotional national debate
about whether those illegally here should be punished for breaking the law or
given amnesty. The Senate favors a compromise that would legalize many
immigrants and seems to be favored by President Bush, who has said huge
deportations are not possible. But House Republicans are pushing for much
tougher legislation that would turn those illegally here into felons.

Surrounded by his five-man morning crew, which feeds him information from
laptops and makes appropriate background noises, Mr. Sotelo is devoting much of
his 4-to-11 a.m. weekday show to giving a voice to illegal immigrants in the
raging debate. But at some point, some radio experts say, he will have to move
on.

''This is fleeting,'' said Rob Balon, chief executive of the Benchmark Company,
a market research business in Austin, Tex. ''If Piolin decides to become a
Limbaugh type, his audience is going to be bored.''

So far, it seems there is little danger of that. Between pro-immigrant
outbursts, pranks and the daily flurry of activity, Mr. Sotelo still took time
the other day to try to find an exterminator in San Jose who could help a
listener who said her house was infested with termites.

''She said she's getting bitten,'' Mr. Sotelo said, shaking his head. ''It's
unbelievable. We have to help her.''

His listeners, of course, will hear all about that too.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: AIR LATINO -- Eduardo Sotelo, or Piolin, is a top-rated Los
Angeles host. (Photo by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Walkout Is Planned to Show Solidarity With Immigrants

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 725 words


From behind a vending cart in Jackson Heights, Queens, Mohammad Ali, 58, minced
some betel palm tree leaves and nuts in a plastic bowl -- mouth freshener made
to order for the man in a burgundy tunic who sells Islamic books from a nearby
stand.

''Busy, busy, every day, but 15 minutes Monday, no work,'' Mr. Ali said
yesterday, using the few English words he has managed to master since arriving
in New York five years ago from Hyderabad, a city in India.

He then unfolded a bright orange flier and offered it to this reporter, by way
of explanation. ''Form a human chain in an expression of solidarity for
immigrant rights,'' the flier read. ''Join the nation in highlighting the many
ways in which immigrant workers and businesses contribute to our economy.''

At 12:16 p.m. today, immigrants and their supporters are set to take a short
break from work and stand side by side along busy commercial strips citywide to
make their presence known. Later in the day, at 4:30 p.m., immigrants and
advocates are to rally in Union Square.

The specific moment of the lunchtime demonstration is meant to represent the
date -- Dec. 16 -- that the House of Representatives passed a bill that would
make it a felony to be in the country illegally, organizers said. In early
April, a version of the bill stalled in the Senate.

Similar demonstrations are planned for the same time in the city's other
boroughs: along East Broadway, Canal Street and St. Nicholas Avenue in
Manhattan; on Fifth Avenue between 40th and 60th Streets and along Coney Island
Avenue in Brooklyn; and at East Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse in the
Bronx. It was unclear yesterday where the Staten Island demonstration would take
place. In Jackson Heights, protesters will gather at 37th Avenue and 74th
Street, just outside Pizza Boy, where Nick Lombardo, 53, has worked for the past
30 years, long before he became a United States citizen in 1998.

''These immigrants came here, I came here, my mother and father came here for a
better future,'' said Mr. Lombardo, who was a teenager when he left Sicily to
move to New York. ''Everybody around here is from some place else. America is a
country of immigrants, so it's important that we all participate, whether we're
legal or not.''

Word of the demonstration spread quickly throughout Jackson Heights, where the
language options at automated-teller machines -- English, Spanish, Korean and
Hindi -- mirror the diversity of the neighborhood. There were mentions in the
pages of ethnic newspapers and on Spanish-language television broadcasts.

Mr. Lombardo, a manager at Pizza Boy, said he got his flier on Thursday, as did
many of the business owners and workers in a four-block section of 37th Avenue,
between 72nd and 76th Streets -- a stretch known as Little India for its South
Asian flair. He has since ordered the two Mexican brothers who bake and deliver
the pizzas for his restaurant to join the demonstration.

Mr. Ali plans to be there as well, along with Adrian Cardenas, 37, a hairdresser
at Ingrid's Full Service Salon nearby.

''We must be united to affirm our strength,'' Mr. Cardenas, who hails from the
Colombian coffee-growing city of Armenia. ''It doesn't matter where we're
from.''

Two-thirds of Jackson Heights residents are foreign born, according to the 2000
census, but no single ethnicity prevails. On Roosevelt Avenue, for example, one
can savor culinary delicacies from nearly every country in Latin America. On
Broadway, near 37th Avenue, there is a small strip of Korean-owned businesses.
On 37th Avenue, the air smells of curry, women wear colorful saris and stores
display the elaborate jewelry from the Indian state of Gujarat.

While immigrant groups in a number of American cities were organizing full work
stoppages for today, and some legislators in Albany were planning to walk out
this afternoon, groups in New York City preferred just the brief demonstration.

''Some workers had legitimate concerns about losing their jobs,'' said Ana Maria
Archila, executive director of the Latin American Integration Center, which
provides services to immigrants in Queens and on Staten Island. ''Business
owners are immigrants, workers are immigrants and the people who shop in many of
the stores in this city are immigrants, so if we boycotted business, we'd be
basically boycotting ourselves.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many immigrant workers in Jackson Heights planned to
demonstrate. (Photo by Shiho Fukada for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Voice of Bronx Immigrant Group Is Accused of Defrauding Clients

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and SARAH GARLAND

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words


For years, the Garifuna people came to Southern Boulevard to mourn their past.
Then they started going there for another reason, not out of grief but pride.
They came to see Maria Elena Maximo.

On March 25, 1990, a fire at the Happy Land Social Club killed 87 people, at
least half of whom were Garifuna, a small Central American ethnic group that has
struggled to maintain its identity and traditions in this city of immigrants.
The building, at 1959 Southern Boulevard, remains standing today, a reminder of
one of the deadliest arson cases and mass murders in New York City history, and
hallowed ground for the Garifuna.

Ms. Maximo, 53, is one of them, and a few years ago she set up a small
storefront about a block away. She established herself as an advocate for the
Garifuna and other immigrants, helping them prepare and file their immigration
papers and offering English, computer and other classes as president of a
nonprofit group.

When she discovered that the Garifuna were having trouble attracting grants
without an accurate count of their numbers, Ms. Maximo made plans to conduct a
census. She offered to help clean the granite monument erected on a traffic
island in honor of Happy Land victims and was given a key to its gate by the
City Parks and Recreation Department. In March, she paid tribute to the victims
at an event recognizing the 16th anniversary of the fire.

Nine days later, she was under arrest, accused of defrauding the immigrants who
looked up to her as a leader.

On Southern Boulevard and in other parts of the Bronx, there is now confusion
and anger. ''It hurts a lot as a Garifuna to hear this,'' said Elena Gutierrez,
28, a Honduran immigrant who took G.E.D. classes at Ms. Maximo's storefront.
''It's very hard when something like this happens. Now no one will believe in
anyone anymore.''

Ms. Maximo was arrested in connection with a scheme to charge illegal immigrants
$500 to $2,500 each to apply for work permits and green cards for which they
were not eligible. State and federal prosecutors said she submitted more than
1,300 fraudulent applications in 2004 and 2005, receiving an estimated $1
million from her customers.

Most of these immigrants were seeking documents through a federal amnesty and
legalization program. The authorities said Ms. Maximo misrepresented the
program, telling her clients that to qualify, they had to have been in the
country for just a few years -- 4, 5, or 10 years. But the program was closed to
anyone who entered the United States after 1981.

Many of Ms. Maximo's clients never got a green card. Many never got their money
back. In a cruel twist, faulty applications filed by Ms. Maximo led to
deportation proceedings for a few clients.

After her arrest, someone scrawled ''ladron,'' Spanish for ''thief,'' on the
door of her Harrison Avenue apartment.

''I thought it was good stuff, but she was just faking it,'' said Scarly Joseph,
a 26-year-old day care provider from Haiti, who said she paid Ms. Maximo $2,000
to file a green card application for her after she overstayed her tourist visa.
Ms. Joseph earns $250 a week and used all her savings and borrowed from a friend
to pay the $2,000. She is still waiting to hear about the status of her
application. ''I worked so hard for that money,'' she said, ''and I don't know
how I'm going to get that money back.''

Ms. Maximo was charged with two counts of mail fraud and faces a maximum of 20
years in prison for each count. Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in
Manhattan, announced the arrest on April 4, the same day State Attorney General
Eliot Spitzer filed a lawsuit against her alleging fraud. Ms. Maximo, who was
released on bond after her arrest, declined to comment, saying her lawyer
advised her to do so. ''Believe me, I would like to spill my guts,'' she said.
''We have nothing to hide.''

Of the more than 1,300 applications Ms. Maximo filed, some have been denied and
others are in the process of being denied, the authorities said. But some
immigrants said in interviews that they did receive green cards after Ms. Maximo
filed their paperwork.

Court documents identify at least three cases in which faulty claims for asylum
and legalization filed by Ms. Maximo led to deportation hearings. Details about
the outcome of those proceedings were not available.

In one of those cases, a man from Trinidad said he paid Ms. Maximo nearly $1,400
for work permits for him and his wife. Ms. Maximo had applied for political
asylum on their behalf without their knowledge, he said. As a result, his wife
was ordered to leave the country in January. ''I just wanted my money's worth,
as they say,'' he said. ''Nothing came out of it. Only bad, no good,'' said the
man, who was granted anonymity because of his illegal status.

The allegations have shocked many Caribbean and Central American immigrants,
from whom Ms. Maximo drew many of her clients. They say the charges amount to a
kind of breach of trust, as illegal immigrants, often suspicious of outsiders
and the government, turned to Ms. Maximo, herself an immigrant from Honduras,
for help in becoming citizens. ''It's difficult to believe,'' said Evelin Milla,
19, a Honduran immigrant who studied at the storefront on Southern Boulevard and
considered Ms. Maximo a friend. ''But with experience comes betrayal.''

Still, among the Garifuna, descendants of West African slaves and Arawak Indians
from the Caribbean island of St. Vincent who were forcibly relocated to Central
America by the British, there are those who believe she is innocent.

''If you asked me if Ms. Maximo would cheat people out of a million dollars, I
would say no,'' said Mark Ford, a Garifuna who lives in the Bronx and has known
Ms. Maximo for four years. ''I would trust her with my relatives. Not just
friends, but my relatives.''

A spokesman for the Parks Department said Ms. Maximo volunteered to spruce up
the Happy Land monument, which is ringed by buckets of drooping yellow flowers
and silk lilies. After being given a key to the memorial's red-painted gate, she
changed the locks without the department's permission, the spokesman said. Those
locks have since been replaced.

The Happy Land fire was started by a Cuban refugee who was thrown out of the
club after arguing with his ex-girlfriend. He returned with a plastic jug filled
with a dollar's worth of gasoline and set fire to the door. Most of the victims
were trapped and asphyxiated on the crowded second floor.

A cousin of Ms. Maximo lost his son in the fire. Another cousin, Antonieta
Maximo, the former consul general of Honduras in New York, helped get the Happy
Land monument built.

Maria Gale, who lost her daughter and five other relatives in the fire, and
Isabel Nunez, who lost her two younger brothers, said they were outraged that
Ms. Maximo had received the key to the memorial gate. They said a relative of
one of the victims should have been given the key, and were skeptical of Ms.
Maximo's eagerness to help them.

Ms. Nunez said Ms. Maximo approached her last month and told her of her plans to
apply for city money for scholarships for victims' relatives -- and for a new
building for Ms. Maximo's group, Jamalali Uagucha, which means the voice of our
ancestors in the Garifuna language.

''She was trying to profit in our names,'' said Ms. Nunez, 39, ''and we had
never seen her before.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Elena Maximo set up a Bronx storefront, at right, to help
Garifuna residents. (Photo by Jennie Aleshire)
 (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'O Say, Can You See,' in Spanish

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 109 words



To the Editor:

President Bush's attitude toward a Spanish version of our national anthem seems
to indicate a concern that English is in danger of being displaced as the
dominant language in the United States. This is a knee-jerk reaction that has no
basis in fact.

Most immigrants eventually reach at least a basic level of English
comprehension, and even if they don't, it's a sure bet that their children will.

Reaching the level of mastery needed to understand the national anthem could
take years, and no patriotic person should have to wait that long to sing the
national anthem in a way that is meaningful to him.

Adam Selzer
Chicago, April 29, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Allies Bolster Student in His Immigration Struggle

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 735 words


Amadou Ly and his East Harlem teammates won no prizes at the national robotics
competition in Atlanta last weekend. But Amadou, 18, who was brought to New York
from Senegal at 13 and left to fend for himself a year later, won an outpouring
of support for his legal fight against deportation and his dream of going to
college.

Scores of strangers who read about his bittersweet success in The New York Times
last week called or sent e-mail messages offering to help pay his college
tuition and his legal expenses, or even to adopt him if that could help him stay
in the United States.

Lawyers gave free advice. Television camera crews followed his every move. And
members of Congress drafted letters urging Michael Chertoff, the secretary of
the Department of Homeland Security, to use his discretion to help Amadou onto a
path to permanent residency.

''Amadou and his teammates have made New Yorkers proud, and bolstered the
evidence that otherwise disadvantaged young people from poor communities can
compete in an academic area so badly needed in our country,'' Representative
Charles B. Rangel and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton wrote in a letter to Mr.
Chertoff that was released yesterday. ''We appeal to you to give him a chance,''
the letter said. ''If he continues on his current path, our country will be the
winner.''

For years, Amadou had kept his illegal immigration status secret. But his team's
unlikely invitation to compete in Atlanta, after beating robotics teams from the
city's elite schools, forced him to reveal it: He had no government-issued
identification to board a plane, no way to attend the college that had accepted
him, and only a slim chance to win a two-year battle against deportation.

While his teammates flew to Atlanta, he set off on an 18-hour journey by train
to join them. By the time he arrived, response to the article had unleashed a
news media whirlwind.

''I never thought people like a senator would talk about this case,'' Amadou
said yesterday, still overwhelmed by the attention, which included interviews by
CNN and NBC's ''Today'' show, and an hourlong live broadcast he made in French
to Senegal from the Georgia Dome, where the East Harlem team joined more than
9,000 high school students from around the country.

''Cameras, newspapers, people that I don't know, people standing up and letting
me know that there's help,'' he said. ''I feel good about that, and I'm
thankful.''

At first, East Harlem Tutorial Program, the after-school organization that
started the robot-building team in partnership with Central Park East High
School, began collecting donations on Amadou's behalf. But as pledges and
inquiries poured in, more formal steps were taken. Donors were asked to write
checks to ''Amadou Educational Fund,'' in care of Laura Hirschfeld, Esq., Weil
Gotshal, 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y., 10153, or to address inquiries to her
at laura.hirschfeld@weil.com.

High-powered legal advice -- much of it contradictory -- was still coming in
yesterday to Amy Meselson, a Legal Aid lawyer who took Amadou's case less than
two weeks ago. She said that she planned to set up a conference call later this
week to try to sort out the options, none of them a sure path to legal status.

Amadou's mother brought him from Dakar on a visitor's visa when he was 13, and
left him here after it expired in hopes that he could get an American education.
He did odd jobs to buy food and school supplies, and took shelter with a family
friend who could sign his report card. He was placed in deportation proceedings
in November 2004 after he was a passenger in a car accident in Pennsylvania and
a state trooper reported him to federal immigration authorities.

The team's coach, Kristian Breton, said Amadou's teammates knew going into the
competition that they were part of a story that was bigger than the contest,
which was won by an alliance of teams from three schools, including
''Robowizards,'' from McKee Vocational Tech High School on Staten Island.

''Amadou has done so much already, he's going to be successful wherever he
goes,'' said Mr. Breton, who recalled how the Senegalese teenager walked 35
blocks to attend a robotics meeting during the city's transit strike.

''But I would like to see him fulfill every opportunity that he can and he can't
do that if he's in Senegal.''

''It's a great story,'' he added, ''but it's still being written.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: By the time Amadou Ly arrived at the national robotics
competition in Atlanta last week, his immigration problems were international
news, and people were offering everything from free legal advice to adoption.
(Photo by John Bazemore/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigrants Take to U.S. Streets in Show of Strength

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Reporting for this article was contributed by
Cindy Chang from Los Angeles, Steve Friess from Las Vegas, Carolyn Marshall from
Watsonville, Calif., and Gretchen Ruethling from Chicago.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 1


Hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their supporters skipped work, school
and shopping on Monday and marched in dozens of cities from coast to coast.

The demonstrations did not bring the nation to a halt as planned by some
organizers, though they did cause some disruptions and conveyed in peaceful but
sometimes boisterous ways the resolve of those who favor loosening the country's
laws on immigration.

Originally billed as a nationwide economic boycott under the banner "Day Without
an Immigrant," the day evolved into a sweeping round of protests intended to
influence the debate in Congress over granting legal status to all or most of
the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the country.

The protesters, a mix of illegal immigrants and legal residents and citizens,
were mostly Latino, but in contrast to similar demonstrations in the past two
months, large numbers of people of other ethnicities joined or endorsed many of
the events. In some cases, the rallies took on a broader tone of social action,
as gay rights advocates, opponents of the war in Iraq and others without a
direct stake in the immigration debate took to the streets.

"I think it's only fair that I speak up for those who can't speak for
themselves," said Aimee Hernandez, 28, one of an estimated 400,000 people who
turned out in Chicago, the site of one of the largest demonstrations. "I think
we're just too many that you can't just send them back. How are you going to
ignore these people?"

But among those who favor stricter controls on illegal immigration, the protests
hardly impressed.

"When the rule of law is dictated by a mob of illegal aliens taking to the
streets, especially under a foreign flag, then that means the nation is not
governed by a rule of law -- it is a mobocracy," Jim Gilchrist, a founder of the
Minutemen Project, a volunteer group that patrols the United States-Mexico
border, said in an interview.

While the boycott, an idea born several months ago among a small group of
grass-roots immigration advocates here, may not have shut down the country, it
was strongly felt in a variety of places, particularly those with large Latino
populations.

Stores and restaurants in Los Angeles, Chicago and New York closed because
workers did not show up or as a display of solidarity with demonstrators. In Los
Angeles, the police estimated that more than half a million people attended two
demonstrations in and near downtown. School districts in several cities reported
a decline in attendance; at Benito Juarez High School in Pilsen, a predominantly
Latino neighborhood in Chicago, only 17 percent of the students showed up, even
though administrators and some protest organizers had urged students to stay in
school.

Lettuce, tomatoes and grapes went unpicked in fields in California and Arizona,
which contribute more than half the nation's produce, as scores of growers let
workers take the day off. Truckers who move 70 percent of the goods in ports in
Los Angeles and Long Beach, Calif., did not work.

Meatpacking companies, including Tyson Foods and Cargill, closed plants in the
Midwest and the West employing more than 20,000 people, while the flower and
produce markets in downtown Los Angeles stood largely and eerily empty.

Israel Banuelos, 23, and more than 50 of his colleagues skipped work, with the
grudging acceptance of his employer, an industrial paint plant in Hollister,
Calif.

"We were supposed to work," Mr. Banuelos said, "but we wanted to close down the
company. Our boss didn't like it money-wise."

The economic impact of the day's events was hard to gauge, though economists
expected a one-day stoppage to have little long-term effect. In large swaths of
the country, life went on with no noticeable difference. But protesters in
numerous cities, many clad in white and waving mostly American flags in response
to complaints that earlier rallies featured too many Latin American ones,
declared victory as chanting throngs shut down streets.

Most of the demonstrators' ire was directed at a bill passed by the House that
would increase security at the border while making it a felony for an illegal
immigrant to be in the country or to aid one. The marchers generally favored a
plan in the Senate, for which President Bush has shown signs of support, that
would include more protection at the border but offer many illegal workers a
path to citizenship.

Still, the divide among advocates over the value and effectiveness of a boycott
resulted in some cities, including Los Angeles and San Diego, playing host to
two sizable demonstrations, one organized by boycotters and the other by people
neutral or opposed to it.

That split played out across the country. While many business owners warned
employees about taking the day off, many others also sought to negotiate time
off or other ways to register workers' sentiments.

Las Vegas casinos reported few disruptions, partly because many of their owners
announced their support for workers at a news conference last week. On Monday,
more than 40 casinos set up tables in employee lunchrooms for workers to sign
pro-immigration petitions.

Leaders of Local 226 of the Culinary Workers Union also urged members to go to
work. The union is Las Vegas's largest hospitality union, representing 50,000
workers, of which 40 percent are Hispanic.

Smaller businesses in Las Vegas, where tens of thousands of demonstrators
gathered on the Strip, also took a hit. Javier Barajas said he closed his
family's four Mexican restaurants in Las Vegas because members of his staff
warned him they would not show up, costing him more than $60,000 in revenue.

"I cannot fire anybody over this, but I would have liked to see some other way
to express themselves," said Mr. Barajas, who was once an illegal immigrant from
central Mexico but became a United States citizen. "It's the small businesses
that are hurt by this."

For many immigrants, however, it was just another workday.

At a Home Depot in Hollywood, day laborers as always crowded parking lot
entrances, hoping for work. At a car wash in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los
Angeles, employees buzzed, with workers vacuuming, buffing and drying cars.
People lined up at markets, though some reported slower business.

"I was thinking about not buying things, but then I needed to buy stuff," said
Alex Sanchez, 28, a construction worker buying an avocado, chilies and beer.

The boycott grew from an idea hatched by a small band of grass-roots advocates
in Los Angeles, inspired by the farmworker movement of the 1960's led by Cesar
Chavez and Bert Corona. Through the Internet and mass media catering to
immigrants, they developed and tapped a network of union organizers, immigrant
rights groups and others to spread the word and plan events tied to the boycott,
timed to coincide with International Workers' Day.

The Los Angeles organizers said some 70 cities held boycott activities.

The day spawned all manner of supportive actions here. A department store chain
offered space for lawyers to give legal advice to immigrants; in Hollywood, the
comedian Paul Rodriguez appeared at the comedy club the Laugh Factory to promote
a daylong health care fair for immigrant workers.

In Chicago, there was solidarity in diversity, as Latinos were joined by
immigrants of Polish, Irish, Asian and African descent. Jerry Jablonski, 30,
said he had moved to Chicago from Poland six years ago, flying to Mexico and
then crossing the border. He now works a construction job.

"Poland is my old country," Mr. Jablonski said. "This is my new country. I can
make everything happen here."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Queens, N.Y., thousands of immigrants and their supporters
filled the sidewalks and streets. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 Truck drivers gathered in a park in Los Angeles, Calif. (Photo by Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sidebar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

'O Say, Can You See,' in Spanish

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 125 words



To the Editor:

It is not the job of the president to be giving anybody patriotism lessons.

To record and to enjoy a Spanish version of a song that is in the public domain,
national anthem or otherwise, is completely within the rights of Latino
immigrants and their American-born descendants.

Spanish translations of American patriotic songs do not balkanize society;
discrimination does. People concerned about how well Latino immigrants and their
descendants integrate into American society should take that up with the parties
who discriminate against them and who subject them to racist abuses, because
they are the balkanizers.

Ben Alexander
Astoria, Queens, April 29, 2006

The writer teaches history at New York City College of Technology, CUNY.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Arrest Sex Offender Once Deported To El Salvador

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 339 words


An illegal immigrant who was deported to his native El Salvador last year after
he was convicted of sexually abusing a 12-year-old was arrested again on Sunday
after the police spotted him on Long Island, the Suffolk County police said.

Members of the Second Precinct's gang unit said they spotted Fredy E. Bonilla,
25, at the corner of Depot Road and Eighth Street in Huntington Station about
6:45 p.m. They recognized him from a photo, and a subsequent computer check
showed that he was the subject of a warrant for violating his probation, said
Sgt. Kenneth Holvik, a Second Precinct spokesman.

Fingerprints confirmed his identity, the sergeant said.

Mr. Bonilla was charged in May 2004 with second-degree sexual abuse of a minor,
whom the police said they were forbidden to identify, and convicted the next
month. A spokesman for the Suffolk district attorney's office said he was
sentenced to 60 days in jail and six years' probation. He was also ordered to
register as a Level 1 sex offender.

In March 2005, after his release from jail, he was one of several registered sex
offenders arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers. He was
deported to El Salvador on May 3, 2005. Suffolk County's probation department
then issued a warrant that was enforceable if he re-entered the United States.

The Suffolk police said they did not know how or when Mr. Bonilla re-entered the
country. ''He was obviously nervous when the officers approached him, and he
lied about everything they asked him,'' Sergeant Holvik said.

He said Mr. Bonilla gave officers a false name. When asked for identification,
he handed over a card and then smacked it out of an officer's hand, he said. He
was charged with second-degree harassment, unlawful impersonation, governmental
obstruction and violating probation.

The Suffolk police said he would be turned over to federal immigration agents
after his arraignment. An immigration spokesman said Mr. Bonilla could be
charged with re-entering the United States after a deportation, a felony.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Day the Immigrants Spoke Up

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 169 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Immigrants Take to Street in Show of Strength'' (front page, May 2):

The demonstrations on Monday were a breathtaking victory not just for
immigrants, but for all Latinos.

The hundreds of thousands of pro-immigration demonstrators indisputably heralded
the ethnic group as a political powerhouse in America.

The Latino display of nerve and determination excited the country, causing mixed
amounts of cheer and chiding, depending on the viewer's beliefs.

No one can predict with certainty the consequences of the protests. The one
sure-fire conclusion is that Latinos will no longer live in the shadows and
sidelines of American society.

For too long, we have recused ourselves from the national discourse on race
relations and equal opportunity. Latino leaders and culture used to be peculiar
to barrios. Now we have stepped into the spotlight and are not only shouting
''Si, se puede!'' (''Yes, I can!'') but more important, ''We are America.''

Wayne Trujillo
Lakewood, Colo., May 2, 2006


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Rob Shepperson)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Day the Immigrants Spoke Up

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 153 words



To the Editor:

The protests on Monday made one thing crystal-clear: the 11 million people who
are in this country illegally are not going to turn around and go home.

Whether or not we should have enforced longstanding immigration laws will long
be debated, but it will be just that, a debate. We cannot enforce them now.

The illegals are here to stay. They are here to stay because our lawmakers have
long looked the other way in deference to the agribusiness, trucking,
hospitality and other industries that employ these workers at subsistence wages.

It is now essential that our lawmakers ensure that these same industries
shoulder the burden of health care, education, day care and housing for the
millions of people they profitably employ.

And it should be done in a way so that the costs are not blithely tossed off to
American citizens in higher taxes and higher prices.

Carol Haskill
San Francisco, May 2, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Day the Immigrants Spoke Up

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 127 words



To the Editor:

It is appalling to read that ''the worst among our citizens and politicians''
are those who expect our laws to be enforced (editorial, May 2).

I object to the notion that those who cross our borders illegally are somehow
entitled to demand a clear path to citizenship. ''Immigrant rights'' cannot
apply to those who have no right to be here.

It is equally wrong to assume that those waving flags of other nations are
''assimilation-minded.''

Becoming a citizen of this country should not begin by breaking our laws. There
is an established path that has been followed by millions who earned the right
to be naturalized citizens.

It is an insult to them to expect less from others who wish to be Americans.

Michael Molesworth
Tucson, May 2, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Arrests Rise as U.S. Debates Immigration Issue

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Outside a shelter for migrants in the teeming Mexican city of Tijuana, Jesus
Lugo Diaz clutched a creased paper with names and numbers of people in the
United States scrawled over it -- and clung to the hope of sneaking across the
border.

It would be his fifth try.

''One way or the other you're going to cross,'' Mr. Diaz, 36, said as he waited
for the shelter to open and offer him a bed and food for the night, a few days
after the United States Border Patrol had last caught him and sent him back.

Here on the American side, a Border Patrol agent, Richard Kite, surveyed an
array of fences, stadium lights and sensors. Mr. Kite kept a wary eye on several
men loitering just across the border, singling out one perched atop a billboard.

''He's probably a spotter,'' Mr. Kite said.

The cat-and-mouse game along the 1,900-mile border with Mexico proceeds as it
always has, even as the national debate over revamping immigration laws
intensifies. The chanting in the streets of America's big cities and the arguing
in the halls of Congress serve mostly as background noise.

The ebb and flow of arrests also goes on, with the Border Patrol watching a dip
in central Arizona and a spike in San Diego and other developed areas for signs
of shifting smuggling patterns.

Some suggest that a Senate proposal to adopt a guest worker program, possibly
leading to legal residency and citizenship for many of the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States, might be inspiring more people to try a
crossing. Others say the larger numbers indicate nothing more than stepped up
enforcement or even a statistical aberration. Nobody really knows.

The peaks and valleys of arrests over the years reflect a variety of social,
economic and political influences, including the pull of jobs and family here, a
lack of opportunity on the other side, or even the weather.

What is certain is the United States keeps building up its border defenses, with
more planned this year, including adding 1,500 agents and spending some $35
million in Arizona alone on surveillance equipment.

People still keep trying to get in, tucked under the dashboards of cars,
tunneling under the fences -- more than a dozen passages have been found this
year -- throwing bicycles over the barriers and pedaling away like weekend
enthusiasts, crawling through brush, and walking, walking and walking --
sometimes dying in the desert.

''They are ingenious sometimes,'' Mr. Kite said.

Fresh off a four-day bus ride from Leon, Mexico, Roberto Estrada, 43, toted a
small plastic grocery bag with his belongings and planned to bed down the night
before making contact with a smuggler. He said he had heard nothing about the
immigration debate in the United States and was simply itching for work, maybe
in a restaurant, but he would not get picky.

''I'll take whatever job,'' Mr. Estrada said.

After a peak of 1,676,438 arrests in 2000, apprehensions dropped, but they have
drifted upward again to 1,189,067 in 2005 from 931,557 in 2003.

While the Border Patrol attributes the increase to the build up of security,
scholars who study the border said it was more likely that migration was
rebounding from an economic slump after the Sept. 11 attacks and years of
diminished back-and-forth crossings by repeat crossers.

In the San Diego sector, which includes some of the Border Patrol's heaviest
fortifications, federal agents have apprehended 90,843 people since October, a
33 percent increase over the same period a year before.

Along the busiest stretch for crossings, a 1,000-mile stretch from San Diego to
the Texas state line, there have been 699,609 arrests over the same period, a 6
percent increase.

But arrest figures fluctuate, so the Border Patrol cannot declare a trend. As a
rule of thumb, the agency estimates that for every person arrested two or three
get through. But because of repeat arrests the number of apprehensions does not
necessarily reflect the actual number of people trying to cross.

Still, people familiar with the border crossings, including the head of the
union representing the border agents, suggest that the crossing attempts are
growing, with some of those inspired by the prospect of a guest worker program.

''I think we are starting to see the early stage of a rush to take advantage of
what is perceived to be a shift in immigration policy,'' said T. J. Bonner,
president of the union, the National Border Patrol Council.

Mr. Bonner said some of the people arrested had told agents that they believed
Congress had approved a guest worker program that would make their presence in
the United States legal.

Mario Martinez, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Washington, did not dismiss
the guest worker program as a factor in the rising numbers of crossing efforts,
but he said other influences, like jobs and reuniting with family, could also
account for the increase.

Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies
at the University of California, San Diego, said researchers there recently
surveyed prospective migrants from the Yucatan Peninsula. They found that 60
percent of them had heard of the guest worker debate and that 30 percent said it
would make them more likely to go the United States if it was approved. Only one
who had already made the trip said the program was the main reason.

Operators of shelters in Mexico said they had noticed an increase in the number
of people passing through, but they were also unsure of the cause.

The director of the Casa del Migrante shelter in Tijuana, the Rev. Luiz
Kendzierski, said shelter visits had increased about 20 percent in the past
year. More than anything, he said, grinding poverty in parts of Mexico and
Central America and word from relatives about the ease of finding jobs in the
United States have pushed most people to try crossing.

At Casa Betania, a shelter in Mexicali, Mexico, Tomas Reyes Hernandez, the
director, said he had heard only a few people mention the prospect of
legalization as a reason for crossing.

''Most people don't know what is going on in the United States,'' he said.

At the Tijuana shelter, men flowed in and out, trading stories about their
journey to the border and comparing notes on promising smugglers.

More and more people use guides, known as coyotes or polleros, because of the
dangers of the desert and the strengthened enforcement.

''It's not that hard if you're willing to pay a good smuggler,'' said a
23-year-old man deported from Los Angeles after an arrest for domestic violence.
''The hard part is getting the $2,000, $3,000 it costs for a good one. But
sometimes they can get you across right here in Tijuana in the trunk or under
the seat of a van.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of Mexicans being sent home last month at the busy
Southern California entry point at San Ysidro on the border with Mexico.
 Richard Kite, a Border Patrol agent, watched for illegal immigrants last month
near San Diego, the site of some of the country's tightest security.
(Photographs by Sandy Huffaker/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Walking the Line

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 447 words


There is one figure in the polarizing immigration debate that people respect and
treat with deference no matter what side they are on. It's the line. It's the
mostly invisible, somewhat metaphorical procession of immigrants trying to enter
the United States under established rules. It also refers to the orderliness
that lawmakers are trying to impose upon the illegal population already here.

Like a sweating manager in a movie theater facing a restless crowd of ticket
holders outside and a throng of others who have sneaked into the lobby, this
country is struggling to control an unruly situation. The obvious answer is to
fix the line. Any serious effort at immigration reform demands it.

An estimated three million people are waiting patiently for visas outside this
country. The backlog goes back decades in some cases. The 11 million to 12
million who broke the law to get here have thus given themselves a significant
leg up, and while their campaign for a path to legal status is just, granting
them a privileged place in line is not.

The Senate's immigration bill -- the only rational proposal that stands any
chance of passage in Congress -- offers illegal immigrants a route to legality,
but one that will take many years. During that time, the country would adjust
its formulas for immigrant visas to eliminate the backlogs. By the time the
line-jumpers get their chance to become legal, the people who were legitimately
ahead of them will have been taken care of.

It's important to remember that the visa backlog is not administrative but
structural: the problem is not bureaucratic inefficiency but an overwhelming gap
between demand and supply. The Senate bill would increase the limit on the
number of employment-based visas issued each year to 450,000, from 140,000,
through 2016. After that, the cap would shrink to 290,000. To further ease the
backlog pressure, spouses and children would no longer be counted against the
employment-based visa cap. The limits on visas for family members of immigrants
would remain at 480,000, but a large group -- spouses and children -- would no
longer count against that cap.

Family reunification would be worth pursuing even without the current crisis.
Some people in the Philippines, to cite the extreme example, are in their second
decade of waiting to be reunited with loved ones in the United States.

The proper goal of immigration reform is to be humane and practical without
insulting people's innate sense of fairness. And if such reform removes the
perverse incentives that make it more rational to enter the United States
through the Sonoran Desert than through a line at a consular office, so much the
better.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Other Immigration

BYLINE: By Christopher Caldwell.

Christopher Caldwell is a contributing writer for the magazine.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 963 words


If you were to set out to design a story that would inflame populist rage, it
might involve immigrants from poor countries, living in the United States
without permission to work, hiring powerful Washington lobbyists to press their
case. In late April, The Washington Post reported just such a development. The
immigrants in question were highly skilled -- the programmers and doctors and
investment analysts that American business seeks out through so-called H-1B
visas, and who are eligible for tens of thousands of ''green cards,'' or
permanent work permits, each year. But bureaucracy and an
affirmative-action-style system of national-origin quotas have created a mess.
India and China account for almost 40 percent of the world's population, yet
neither can claim much more than 7 percent of the green cards. Hence a
half-million-person backlog and a new political pressure group, which calls
itself Immigration Voice.

The group's efforts will be a test of the commonly expressed view that Americans
are not opposed to immigration, only to illegal immigration. Immigration Voice
represents the kind of immigrants whose economic contributions are obvious. It
is not a coincidence that the land of the H-1B is also the land of the iPod.
Such immigrants are not ''cutting in line'' -- they're petitioning for pre-job
documentation, not for post-job amnesty. And people who have undergone 18 years
of schooling to learn how to manipulate advanced technology come
pre-Americanized, in a way that agricultural workers may not.

But Immigration Voice could still wind up crying in the wilderness. As the
Boston College political scientist Peter Skerry has noted, many of the things
that bug people about undocumented workers are also true of documented ones.
Legal immigrants, too, increase crowding, compete for jobs and government
services and create an atmosphere of transience and disruption. Indeed, it may
be harder for foreign-born engineers to win the same grip on the sympathies of
native-born Americans that undocumented farm laborers and political refugees
have. Skilled immigrants can't be understood through the usual paradigms of
victimhood.

The economists Philip Martin, Manolo Abella and Christiane Kuptsch noted in a
recent book, ''As a general rule, the more difficult it is to migrate from one
country to another, the higher the percentage of professionals among the
migrants from that country.'' Often this means that the more ''backward'' the
country, the more ''sophisticated'' the immigrants it supplies. Sixty percent of
the Egyptians, Ghanaians and South Africans in the U.S. -- and 75 percent of
Indians -- have more than 13 years of schooling. Their home countries are not
educational powerhouses, yet as individuals, they are more highly educated than
a great many of the Americans they live among. (This poses an interesting
problem for Immigration Voice, which polices its Web forums for condescending
remarks toward manual laborers.)

So how are we supposed to address the special needs of this class of migrant?
For the most part, we don't. The differences between skilled and unskilled
immigrants are important, but that doesn't mean that they are always readily
comprehensible either to politicians or to public opinion. When high-skilled
immigrants who are already like us show themselves willing to become even more
so, jumping every hoop to join us on a legal footing, it dissolves a lot of
resistance. But it doesn't dissolve everything. It doesn't dissolve our sense
that people like them are different and potentially even threatening.

If we consider our own internal migration of recent decades, this will not
surprise us. You would have expected that big movements of people between states
-- particularly from the North to the Sun Belt and from Pacific Coast cities to
Rocky Mountain towns -- would cause increasing uniformity and unanimity. But
that didn't happen. Instead, this big migration has coincided with the much
harped-on polarization between ''red'' and ''blue'' America.

Georgians take up jobs on Wall Street and New Englanders unload their U-Hauls in
Texas. The sky doesn't fall -- but neither do cultural or political tensions
between respective regions of the country. Consider the diatribes that followed
the last election, in which ''red'' America stood accused of everything from
ignorance and bloodlust to knee-jerk conformity. Or consider North Carolina. As
the state filled up with new arrivals from such liberal states as New York and
New Jersey, political pundits predicted the demise of its longtime
ultraconservative senator Jesse Helms. But Helms won elections until he retired
in 2002, largely because many of those transplants voted for him
enthusiastically. The sort of Yankees who moved to North Carolina had little
trouble adopting the political outlook of their new neighbors. But you didn't
notice North Carolinians begging for more of them.

While Immigration Voice looks like an immigrant movement that Americans can
rally behind, its prospects are mixed. A recent measure sponsored by Senator
Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania to nearly double the number of H-1B visas was
passed through committee, then killed and then revived. The fate of skilled
immigrants hinges on public opinion, and that is hard to gauge. Even an employer
delighted to sponsor an H-1B immigrant for a green card might have no particular
political commitment to defending the program, or to wringing inefficiencies out
of it. The arrival of skilled individuals arguably makes America a more American
place. But not necessarily a more welcoming one.


  Countries with the most H-1B visa recipients (temporary skilled workers), 2004

Source: U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security, Office of Immigration Statistics

(Chart by L. Eckstein)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Larry Downing
 Reuters)Chart: ''SKILLED SET''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bring Us Your Tired, Your Poor. Or Don't.

BYLINE: By EDWARD T. O'DONNELL.

Edward T. O'Donnell is the author of the forthcoming ''Land of Promise: The
Story of the Irish in America,'' to be published by Simon & Schuster.

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; CITY LORE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1246 words


NO patch of earth is more closely associated with immigration and the ideals of
tolerance than New York. The city has long been home not only to an astonishing
array of peoples, religions and cultures, but also to symbols of the nation's
immigrant heritage: the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, the Lower East Side.
And the city has become home to a particularly vocal pro-immigrant community, as
shown in rallies that attracted tens of thousands of people in recent weeks.

We have grown so accustomed to thinking of New York as a multicultural mecca, it
seems inconceivable that for a century, the city was home to -- and often the
spawning grounds for -- a vibrant, and often vicious, nativist tradition.

It was in the 1830's that New York first emerged as the center of the nativist
movement, the practice of favoring native-born citizens over immigrants. Not
surprisingly, the city's new role coincided with an explosion in immigration to
the United States, to 599,125 in the 1830's from 143,439 in the 1820's.

Some anti-foreigner hostility was expressed with brickbats and fists, but the
most potent weapon was the pen. Samuel F. B. Morse, of later telegraph fame, was
among the first to sound the alarm. In 1834 he wrote a series of articles for
The New York Observer -- later published in a best-selling book titled ''A
Foreign Conspiracy Against the Liberties of the United States'' -- that in
hysterical prose detailed an alleged papal plot to flood America with Roman
Catholic immigrants and overthrow the republic.

''Up! Up! I beseech you!'' Morse exhorted his countrymen. ''Awake! To your
posts! Let the tocsin sound from Maine to Louisiana.'' And first, he added,
''shut your gates.''

Morse's celebrity earned him the 1836 nomination for mayor of New York under the
banner of the Native American Democratic Association, one of the country's first
explicitly nativist political parties. Though he was trounced in the general
election, New York's nativists quickly found a new hero.

Her name was Maria Monk. She claimed to be a former Catholic nun, and in 1836
she published in New York a book purporting to be an expose of the looming
Catholic menace, ''The Awful Disclosures of the Hotel Dieu Nunnery of
Montreal.''

It told how Monk learned Catholicism's nefarious secrets only after she had
entered the convent. Nuns, she said, had to submit to the lustful desires of
priests, and the babies that resulted from these liaisons were strangled and
buried in the convent basement.

According to this tale of woe, Monk eventually became pregnant and fled the
convent to save her unborn child. A kindly Protestant minister rescued her and
helped her publish the account of her experience so as to warn America of the
menace in its midst. An investigation exposed Monk as a fraud, but the book
nonetheless sold hundreds of thousands of copies over the next 15 years. Its
publisher, James Harper, was elected mayor in 1844 as a candidate of the
Nativist American Republican Party.

During these years, scores of secret anti-foreigner societies sprouted in the
city. The most prominent organization, the Order of the Star-Spangled Banner,
was dedicated to ''the exclusion of all foreigners and Roman Catholics in
particular'' from political power. Founded in Manhattan in 1849, it blossomed
into a national political movement whose followers were known as ''Know
Nothings'' because of the requirement that they answer any questions about the
organization by saying, ''I know nothing.''

The Civil War brought a new phase of nativism, again with New York at the
forefront. In 1861, the nation's leading magazine of news and politics, Harper's
Weekly, hired as an illustrator Thomas Nast, who would achieve fame as the
nation's first major political cartoonist. Despite his own history as a German
immigrant, he was also a mass producer of nativist imagery.

Nast's chief targets were the Irish and the two institutions they dominated, the
Roman Catholic church and Tammany Hall. For a quarter of a century, his
depictions of apelike Irishmen were regular features in Harper's, creating in
the national mind an indelible image of the Irishman as a drunken, violent and
corrupt fellow who would never become an upstanding citizen.

The cartoons of Nast and his many imitators made people smile as much as they
inflamed their passions. Far more influential and sinister was the emergence at
the turn of the century of the pseudoscience of eugenics, which argued that
certain races, principally the ''Nordics'' of northern and western Europe, were
more fit than others. This theory was used to justify sterilization of the
feeble-minded and led to curtailed immigration of what were deemed racially
inferior peoples from Asia and southern and eastern Europe.

If the eugenics movement had a national headquarters, it was New York. Two of
its most prominent proponents, Charles B. Davenport and Madison Grant, lived in
the city, and both played major roles in founding the Galton Society, the
leading eugenics organization, and the Eugenics Record Office, a sort of racial
purity think tank in Cold Harbor, Long Island, just over the Queens border.

Grant, who came from a prominent New York family, also wrote a hugely
influential book titled ''The Passing of the Great Race,'' in 1916. In the book
he warned that America's once-sturdy Nordic racial stock was being destroyed by
mass immigration of ''a large and increasing number of the weak, the broken, and
the mentally crippled of all the races drawn from the lower stratum of the
Mediterranean basin and the Balkans, together with hordes of the wretched,
submerged populations of the Polish Ghettos.''

FIVE years later, he helped bring the Second International Conference on
Eugenics to the American Museum of Natural History, where 393 participants heard
96 papers on topics such as ''Harmonic and Disharmonic Race Crossings.'' Also in
1921, Grant consulted on the congressional committee that produced the nativist
movement's greatest triumph, the 1924 National Origins Act, which sharply
curtailed immigration and set quotas for foreign nations based on racial
desirability.

Quotas remained until 1965, but nativism never again enjoyed such credibility.
The horrors of Nazi crimes committed in the name of racial purity, coupled with
lower rates of immigration and postwar prosperity, led Americans to look more
kindly on the nation's multicultural heritage. Nowhere was this shift more
apparent than in New York, where the nativist tradition was replaced with a
widely shared commitment to tolerance and diversity.

The Statue of Liberty was transformed from a symbol of republican values into
one proclaiming immigration as a quest for freedom. Ellis Island was recreated
as a museum to celebrate immigration. The iconic immigrant neighborhood, the
Lower East Side, was added to the National Register of Historic Places.

This transformation should not surprise anyone, for the city has long been home
to the multicultural ideal. Even at the height of the Know Nothing movement,
Walt Whitman wrote rhapsodically of New York: ''City of the world! (for all
races are here; All the lands of the earth make contributions here).'' Reformers
like Jacob Riis portrayed immigrants as decent people trapped not by inferior
genes but by inhumane conditions. And when Israel Zangwill's Broadway hit, ''The
Melting Pot,'' opened in 1909, its title became a catchphrase for
multiculturalism for a century tocome.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: HEARTS AND MINDS -- A cartoon by F. Victor Gillam, published in
Judge magazine in 1890. Readers smiled, but passions were inflamed. (Photo by
Granger Collection)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

So Many Hepatitis Cases, So Many Cures

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words


Dr. Sing Chan, a hepatologist in Flushing, Queens, has been getting more and
more invitations for lunch lately from pharmaceutical representatives seeking to
interest him in new drugs developed to treat the hepatitis B virus.

As the number of new cases reaches a staggeringly high rate among recent Chinese
immigrants in New York City, drug companies are descending upon doctors and
pharmacists; marketers of fancy herbal remedies are pushing their products on
Chinese radio; and the many shops along Flushing's Main Street that sell
traditional Chinese herbs are stocking products with natural ingredients that
claim to purify the liver.

A study released this week reported that east Asian immigrants in New York City
run a far greater risk than other Americans for the hepatitis B virus. The
study, led by researchers at the New York University School of Medicine, was
certainly not news to Dr. Chan, whose client list has come to be dominated by
Chinese immigrants living around Main Street in whom the virus has been
detected.

The virus, which can lead to diseases like liver cancer and cirrhosis, has
plagued Asian immigrants for decades, and the number of patients who test
positive for it keeps rising in areas like Flushing.

''The numbers are going up all the time,'' Dr. Chan said. ''Doctors are just not
doing enough to test patients for hepatitis B. Infected patients tell me, 'I've
had plenty of blood tests but they never checked for hepatitis B.' ''

Because hepatitis B is endemic in many Asian countries, where it is transmitted
largely from mother to child, growth in the number of Asian immigrants in New
York and across the country has made the disease a broad, expensive health
problem. In the 2000 census, there were 800,000 Asians in the city, with roughly
half from China.

Hepatitis B, like hepatitis C, is generally contracted through the blood, and is
not transmitted through casual contact with infected people. Hepatitis A, which
is caused by a different virus, can be transmitted through food, but hepatitis B
cannot, with very rare exceptions.

''They spent one day teaching us about this in medical school,'' Dr. Chan said.
But now doctors and authorities can not ignore the scores of patients flocking
to the modest medical clinics and offices tucked away in commercial suites just
off Main Street, above noodle shops, bubble tea lounges and karaoke bars.

Dr. Chan and his colleagues in Flushing are frustrated. They are scrambling to
introduce a reluctant population of recent Chinese immigrants to medical
advances in treatment of the virus, including early detection and medication
that can suppress it.

''New patients say they are shocked when they find out they have the virus,'' he
said. ''Then they admit that many of their friends and relatives have it. You
get a lot of old people who come and know they have it, but they say, 'My doctor
always said nothing can be done for it.' ''

That is no longer so. Over the past decade, an array of new drugs has become
available to treat chronic infection and suppress the virus so that it causes
little or no harm. Usually, they must be taken for a lifetime.

''When I tell young Chinese people they have to take a lifetime worth of drugs
for a virus that is currently giving them no symptoms, they don't understand
that,'' he said. ''Then they refuse and they remain carriers and can pass the
virus on.''

For many Chinese immigrants, he said, hepatitis B has long carried a stigma.
Many people were told it is incurable and not to speak about it for fear one
would be vilified as a carrier.

''A lot of people don't want to come forward because they are undocumented and
can't get health insurance,'' said Ming-der Chang, vice president of Asian
initiatives for the American Cancer Society, which reports high incidence of
liver cancer among Asian immigrants in New York City. ''They don't want to be
seen as carriers of the virus.''

A 45-year-old man who emigrated from China 10 years ago said he avoided being
tested for the virus because he lacked money and health insurance. Getting a
hepatitis B diagnosis would mean a stigma that would affect his ability to rent
a room, get work and make friends, he said.

''I was worried I would be discriminated against,'' said the man, who was
granted anonymity because of his illegal status and his reluctance to reveal to
his friends that he has hepatitis B. ''People still think the virus can be
spread by food and contact. Many poor immigrants come and live close together in
small rooms and don't want to live close to someone who has it.''

In January 2005, the man developed liver cancer, caused by untreated hepatitis
B, doctors told him. A yearlong regimen of chemotherapy has shrunk his tumors to
the point where his doctors are optimistic about his survival, he said.

Dr. King-Chen Hon, a gastroenterologist with an office on Main Street, said that
a steady stream of new patients now come in complaining of the virus. By then,
they are yellow from jaundice or have liver problems, including cirrhosis or
cancer. But many come in with no clue that they are infected and no real
symptoms. Then they test positive.

Dr. Pat Basu, a hepatologist in Forest Hills, Queens, said there is a high
incidence of hepatitis B among the Bukharan immigrants who live near his office.
There is also a high rate among the South Asian populations of Indians,
Pakistanis and Bengalis in Elmhurst and Bukharans in Forest Hills, doctors there
say.

But it is among Chinese immigrants that the numbers are highest. The study found
that 15 percent of east Asians in New York -- as many as 100,000 people -- are
chronic hepatitis carriers, an infection rate 35 times the rate found in the
general population.

Some people with hepatitis B cannot afford Western medicine or had no success
with it, and turn to traditional Chinese herbal medicine, seeking to restore
their health among the pungent aromas of the stores that sell lotus seeds,
ginseng root, ginkgo, shark cartilage and fish oil.

Sam Zhang, 33, walked into one such store on Main Street and browsed among the
glass jars of dried fish, seahorses and hundreds of varieties of tea. He bought
$200 worth of herbal liver purifier for his mother, Li, 53, who has hepatitis B.
He bought a month's supply of an herbal remedy to purify the liver, for $200.

''Our doctor said not to try any traditional Chinese medicine because it's not
approved by the F.D.A.,'' said Mr. Zhang, who emigrated from Fujian Province in
1990 and owns a restaurant in Flushing. ''But nothing else worked, so we'll give
it a try.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man has his blood pressure taken in front of a herbal shop in
Queens. The number of patients who test positive for hepatitis B virus keeps
rising in Flushing. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Dr. King-Chen Hon, a gastroenterologist, looks through brochures. He says a
steady stream of new patients complaining of the virus. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad
for The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Identity by Ethnicity

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 118 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Assimilation Nation'' (Op-Ed, May 11):

Peter D. Salins argues that immigration reform is needed ''to ensure that all
immigrants, present and future, are integrated into American civic and social
life -- or, to use an unfashionable phrase, assimilated.''

What he doesn't note, however, is that Americans of non-Northern European
ancestry historically have never been fully assimilated.

Greeks, Italians and Arabs continue to be largely identified by their ethnic
origin, not their nationality. The same is true of Latinos. I am a
third-generation Mexican-American, and European-Americans regularly ask me how
long I've been in this country.

Ricardo Chavira
Bellflower, Calif., May 11, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Nassau County Law To Protect Domestic Workers

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., May 15


Four decades ago, Elsa Mejias came to Long Island from Ecuador for a better
life. Her first job was as a nanny for a family that promised her money and
working papers. But it delivered neither, so she went to work for another family
-- and was cheated once again, she says.

Mrs. Mejias persevered, eventually becoming a nurse's aide. She met a Cuban
refugee in English class, and they married, became citizens and had a family.
Their son, David, became a lawyer and a Nassau County legislator.

To prevent new immigrants from suffering the same exploitation, Mr. Mejias, the
legislator, won passage of a county law on Monday. It requires employment
agencies to give domestic workers contract forms and notices of their rights,
like facts about the minimum wage, overtime regulations and Social Security. The
material is to be provided in English, Spanish, Haitian Creole and other
languages deemed necessary by the County Human Rights Commission.

''She's very excited about it -- she said it was the only thing she wanted for
Mother's Day,'' Mr. Mejias said of his mother, who is now retired.

The Nassau legislation, called the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights, is similar
to a law enacted in New York City in 2003. ''This may be the first law outside
the city but not the last,'' Mr. Mejias said. Some local legislators in
Westchester and Suffolk are considering similar proposals in their counties, he
said.

Witnesses testified that the problems that Mrs. Mejias recalled still persist
today. Mirian de la Hoz, who is from Colombia, described working 18-hour days in
Great Neck for $400 a week. ''I cleaned, I laundered, I cooked and everything
else,'' she said. Finally, she said, she complained of exhaustion, so her
employer agreed to a 54-hour week -- and a $50 pay cut.

Another speaker, Lillian Juarez, who fled unrest in El Salvador, broke down in
tears when describing being shortchanged by employers and agencies, which
typically charge application fees and a commission equal to the first week's
pay.

The Legislature passed the law unanimously, after Mr. Mejias, a Democrat, made
modifications to address points raised by the Republican minority. County
Executive Thomas R. Suozzi, also a Democrat, said he would sign the bill into
law.

Nassau officials estimated that dozens of employment agencies operating in the
county would be affected. Though no one knows how many people do domestic work,
they number in the thousands, said Nadia Marin-Molina, director of the Workplace
Project, an immigrants' advocacy group based in Hempstead.

The law, which takes effect six months after its signing, provides a fine of up
to $1,000 for each violation. The legislation does not cover domestics hired
privately, without an employment agency, because those situations would be too
hard to monitor, Mr. Mejias said. But he predicted that the information given to
employment agency workers would quickly spread.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elsa Mejias and son David, a Nassau County legislator, in his
county office in Mineola. He sponsored the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights.
(Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, the President's Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 99 words



To the Editor:

President Bush's deployment of the National Guard to patrol our border with
Mexico is akin to putting on a Band-Aid without seeking a cure.

Wouldn't his efforts be better spent building a legislative coalition to reform
immigration rather than trying to nail shut one door?

And wouldn't it be better to keep our National Guard trained and ready for
natural disasters like this week's flooding in New England and the impending
hurricane season rather than burning up their service time patrolling just one
of our many porous borders?

Fred Whitridge
Greenwich, Conn., May 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, the President's Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 169 words



To the Editor:

President Bush got it right. Only a balanced approach can restore order to our
immigration system.

Allowing immigrant workers already here to be recognized before the law is not
amnesty; it is an opportunity for many to come out of the shadows.

The United States Committee for Refugees and Immigrants network has been in the
business of producing Americans for the last 100 years. We know that once
immigrants settle into communities, they begin to adopt our values, learn
English and become part of mainstream society.

The immigration debate is part of a larger culture war on what makes us
American. To our fellow citizens who are worried that immigrants are changing
the character of our country, we say: Have faith in America. Our values of
individual liberty, equal opportunity and civic responsibility have not only
prevailed, but they are also the very reason people chose to come here.

Lavinia Limon
President and Chief Executive
U.S. Committee for
Refugees and Immigrants
Washington, May 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, the President's Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 94 words



To the Editor:

I guess clarity, like beauty, must be in the eye of the beholder. It didn't seem
at all ''powerfully clear'' to me that the immigration protest marchers were
remotely demonstrating their ''hunger to assimilate'' (editorial, May 16).

On the contrary, it seemed powerfully clear to me that large numbers of them
were demonstrating their hunger to live and work here in whatever manner they
choose, regardless of whether that manner is compatible with the laws, customs
and culture of the United States.

John M. Casteel
Traverse City, Mich., May 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration, the President's Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 86 words



To the Editor:

I'm about as anti-Bush as a person can be, but I thought that the president's
speech on immigration was a good one. He seemed to recognize and give voice to
the complexity of a difficult issue, as opposed to offering a mix of simplistic
sound bites, happy talk and divisive, either-or rhetoric.

Perhaps even more noteworthy is the fact that, apparently, Karl Rove and crew
have decided that ''nuance'' is now permitted and no longer the sign of a
character flaw.

Dan Carsen
Brookline, Mass., May 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Other Voices On Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 166 words



To the Editor:

Re ''A Bone for Border Hawks,'' by John Tierney (column, May 16):

One need not be a Minuteman or a xenophobe to be concerned about uncontrolled
immigration.

While no politician will touch the topic, any reasonably far-sighted person will
admit that infinite United States population growth is neither sustainable nor
desirable.

Let's hope that someone will have the courage to begin a national dialogue about
what the optimal population of the country should be, even though reaching that
level may take several decades.

If we wait until our water resources are exhausted, until all wildlife is
crowded out, our national forests sold off to developers, and our cities crowded
to Tokyo densities, it will be too late.

Business interests and some fundamentalist religious groups may favor growth to
the point of unsustainability, but that destiny is not inevitable. We have the
capability to limit growth rationally, but perhaps not the will.

Carl Mezoff
Stamford, Conn., May 16, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard Way to Sell Flowers: Dodging Cars and the Police

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; South Ozone Park Journal; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 674 words


A couple of years ago, an Ecuadorean immigrant named Enrique Vega was making a
decent living working as a cook in the Hamptons. Then he was bitten by the
entrepreneurial bug.

Mr. Vega, who with his direct manner and wide smile seems like a natural
businessman, quit the kitchen, moved to Brooklyn and poured his savings into a
storefront in Dyker Heights near his apartment where, on Feb. 14, 2005, he
opened a flower shop with his wife, Asucena.

But if they had hoped that opening on Valentine's Day would translate to brisk
business, they were wrong. At the small dark shop, on New Utrecht Avenue near
68th Street, sales have been slow. The store is lined with empty shelves, some
stuffed animals and a meager selection of flowers and houseplants. ''I made a
mistake coming here,'' Mr. Vega, 35, said, ticking off the overhead of rent,
electricity and taxes. ''It's not a business.''

So almost every day, Mr. Vega loads up his sedan with buckets of Gerbera
daisies, carnations, baby's breath and roses wrapped in cellophane and heads out
to South Ozone Park, Queens, to find more foot traffic -- or rather, just
traffic.

Along a treacherous stretch of merging expressways just north of Kennedy
Airport, Mr. Vega and a half-dozen other flower sellers -- most of them
Ecuadorean -- dodge cars as they peddle $10 bouquets to passing drivers.

Timed to a traffic signal, the work is one of the city's more unusual daily
choreographies, involving weaving in traffic lanes often occupied by 18-wheelers
and impatient commuters -- most of whom ignore the vendors who hold bouquets up
to their windows. Vendors without quick feet and a keen sense of timing need not
apply.

To Mr. Vega and the other Ecuadorean vendors, the sales have become a way to
stay solvent. Some vendors are recently arrived in the United States and have
little in their pockets besides the money they earn each day, which can be up to
$120 or so on a holiday. And there is Mr. Vega, trying to subsidize a stalled
business venture.

Besides the cars speeding off the Van Wyck Expressway and Belt Parkway onto
North Conduit Avenue at 135th Street, one of the intersections where the vendors
work, there is another threat: getting arrested for peddling without a license,
which can carry a $25 fine as well as a night in jail. ''It's interrupting
traffic, I understand,'' said Maria Carpio, 27, a vendor, who is from Ecuador.
''I take the ticket. But it doesn't translate into a night in jail.''

Mr. Vega said he had been arrested seven times; his wife said she had been
arrested twice.

''How can I get a permit for this?'' asked Mr. Vega. ''There is none.'' After
each arrest, the police confiscate the vendors' flowers, which, as perishables,
are thrown away. Mr. Vega said that one set of his buckets can represent $700
worth of flowers.

Mr. Vega and the others said that they feel unfairly sought out by the police,
who seem to appear almost daily to put a stop to their sales. A spokesman for
the Police Department, Paul J. Browne, said that the flower vendors, like the
squeegee men before them, were unlicensed and posed a danger to themselves as
well as drivers.

Still, even the regular roundups by the police have done little to turn away
vendors from the busy corner, where the remains of a demolished house provide
ample cover for hiding buckets of flowers, and even vendors themselves, during a
raid.

On a recent afternoon, a woman who lives near the corner watched the police
arrest Ms. Carpio and another vendor. She said that she often worried about the
vendors, whom she watched dodge cars, then the police.

''I understand their plight, I really do,'' said the woman, who said she was an
immigrant from Jamaica but did not wish to give her name. ''I came as a teacher,
so I never had a problem. I do sympathize with those who come and have to make a
living somehow. I don't know how they do it. It must be difficult.''

She paused a moment, then thought of a possible solution. ''Maybe they should
set up a flower shop where they live and sell there.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Carpio, center, and her brother, Segundo, were arrested
for unlicensed flower peddling.
 One of a small group of mostly Ecuadorean immigrants, Segundo Carpio prepared
to sell flowers along a highway near Kennedy Airport. (Photographs by Robert
Stolarik for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Mexican Government Requests Inquiry

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 125 words


The Mexican government called for an investigation into a shooting by two
federal agents that left one man dead at a border crossing that links San Diego
with Tijuana, Mexico. A union representing one Border Patrol agent involved in
the shooting defended the officer's conduct. The shooting took place Thursday
after American agents surrounded a sport utility vehicle that was under
surveillance on suspicion of immigrant smuggling, the police said. The man who
was killed was identified by the Mexican Consulate as Oscar Abraham Garcia, 22,
of Tijuana. ''We asked for an official investigation of what happened,'' said
Alberto Lozano, a spokesman for the Mexican Consulate in San Diego. The agents
who fired have been reassigned to administrative duties.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Many Paths on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 86 words



To the Editor:

It's precisely because Americans are fed up because they have to ''press one for
English'' that the Senate voted for English to be the national language.

Previous generations of immigrants came to this country not knowing English, yet
they learned our language and conformed to our customs -- not the other way
around.

We always have been ''Out of many, one,'' and that includes our one and only
language, English.

The melting pot worked. Why change now?

Carla Wallach
Greenwich, Conn., May 21, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Innocent Man Describes Decade of Life on the Run

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 545 words

DATELINE: MARATHON, Fla., May 22


Mistaken for a rapist and sentenced to 65 years, Orlando Bosquette lay on a bunk
in a Florida penitentiary and read ''Papillon,'' the memoir about an inmate's
escape from Devil's Island. It was 1983. Mr. Bosquette was 29 years old. Two
years later, he fled, scaling barbed-wire fences, bobbing in soupy canals,
hiding in ant-ridden ditches.

He ran for a decade. ''Ten years, six months,'' Mr. Bosquette said Monday from a
Monroe County jail here in the Florida Keys, with more than a touch of pride.

In flight, he shed the identity of Orlando Bosquette, Cuban refugee.

He borrowed the names and Social Security numbers of the recently dead or long
absent and moved in disguise, like a hermit crab scuttling across the world in
abandoned shells. As Mateo Lopez and Eduardo Jerez and Antonio Orlando, Mr.
Bosquette worked fields in the South, made Weber barbecue grills in Chicago, and
cooked Cuban food in Union City, N.J. He danced in nightclubs in North Miami
with beautiful women.

Time and again, Mr. Bosquette would find himself arrested: along with the names,
he inherited the outstanding troubles of the people whose identities he had
assumed. ''Three or four times I did 20 days, 30 days for warrants on D.U.I.,
things like that,'' he said. ''I cleared a lot of records.''

In his wallet he carried sandpaper, he said, believing that rubbing it upon
arrest would temporarily distort his fingerprints and mask a link to his true
identity. Whatever the reason, jail authorities did not trace the man doing
small time back to the convicted rapist Orlando Bosquette.

Then came his stint in 1995 as Hilberto Rodriguez, who, it turned out, owed six
months for driving while intoxicated. Mr. Bosquette vanished from a prison work
gang. On the street, however, someone tipped off the police. He was sent back to
jail, first to finish a year for the Rodriguez drunken driving term, the escape
and some other unfinished business on the Rodriguez account, then for 50 years
as Orlando Bosquette, rapist.

In response, he fought to stake a claim on the identity that he had spent years
hiding from. He asked that his own DNA be tested against the surviving evidence
from the 1982 rape that had led to his ragged wanderings. Nina Morrison, a
lawyer from the Innocence Project in New York, helped.

''Un angel de Dios,'' said Mr. Bosquette, declaring in Spanish that Ms. Morrison
was God's angel. ''The state's attorney, he helped, too.''

Mark E. Kohl, the chief prosecutor for the area that includes the Florida Keys,
has moved to vacate Mr. Bosquette's rape conviction and spent days untangling
the feints and evasions.

''You aren't supposed to bust out of prison, but because this guy was wrongly
accused and convicted, everybody believes this is the right outcome,'' said
Matthew Helmerich, a spokesman for Mr. Kohl. ''We're delighted to be part of the
exoneration and release. We expect him to walk free Tuesday.''

That may not happen: late Monday, Mr. Bosquette's lawyers said they were told
that immigration authorities were likely to take him into custody as soon as he
is released from the jails of Florida. He faces possible deportation for some of
the crimes he admitted to -- falsely, he says, the expediency of a fugitive --
while using other people's names.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Orlando Bosquette, who is hoping for release after being
exonerated. (Photo by John Loomis for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Brooklyn: Deliberations Begin In Bomb Case

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 64 words


A jury in Brooklyn yesterday began deliberating the fate of Shahawar Matin
Siraj, 23, a Pakistani immigrant charged with plotting to bomb the Herald Square
subway station in 2004. The jury sent several notes to Judge Nina Gershon of
Federal District Court seeking a range of evidence and testimony from the
four-week trial. Deliberations were to resume today.    WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Edison: Immigrants Arrested After Deportation Order

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 48 words


The federal Department of Homeland Security yesterday arrested 32 Indonesian
fugitives who had previously been ordered deported, the authorities said. An
investigation found some of the immigrants hid their identities and changed
residences to evade federal authorities, a spokesman said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Police Watch for Terrorists, Brooklyn Muslims Feel the Eyes

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words


It is no secret to the Muslim immigrants of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, that spies live
among them.

Almost anyone can rattle off what they regard as the telltale signs of police
informers: They like to talk politics. They have plenty of free time. They live
in the neighborhood, but have no local relatives.

''They think we don't know, but we know who they are,'' said Linda Sarsour, 26,
a community activist.

It is another thing for them to be officially revealed. Over the last several
weeks, during the trial of a Pakistani immigrant who was convicted on Wednesday
of plotting to blow up the Herald Square subway station, Muslims in Bay Ridge
learned that two agents of the police had been planted in the neighborhood and
were instrumental to the case.

They absorbed the testimony of an Egyptian-born police informer who had recorded
the license plate numbers of worshipers at a mosque. They heard that an
undercover detective, originally from Bangladesh, had been sent to Bay Ridge as
a ''walking camera.''

The trial's revelations, and its outcome for the defendant, Shahawar Matin
Siraj, have brought a bitter reckoning among Muslims in the city. Many see the
police tactics unveiled in the case as proof that the authorities -- both in New
York and around the nation -- have been aggressive, even underhanded in their
approach to Muslims.

And despite the conviction of Mr. Siraj, who was found guilty on all four of the
counts he faced, some Muslim leaders remain convinced that he was entrapped,
including an imam who knew the informer and had found him to be suspicious.

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly declared the verdict a milestone in the
city's fight against terrorism. Muslim leaders say they support efforts to
safeguard the country, but many believe that the Siraj case may have set back
another battle that the police have been waging: to win their trust and
cooperation.

In Bay Ridge, Palestinian, Syrian and Egyptian immigrants have long engaged in
their own form of surveillance, trying to discern the spies in their midst. It
is a habit imported from the countries they left behind, where informers for the
security services were common and political freedoms curtailed.

In the years since Sept. 11, as word of informers spread among the smoky sheesha
cafes and tidy mosques of Bay Ridge, a familiar fear has fallen over the
neighborhood. It asserts itself quietly, in the hush of conversation and the
wary stares that pass between strangers.

''It's like a police state here,'' said Omar Maged, 34, an assistant teacher at
a public high school. ''We do not feel that we are living in the most free
country in the world.''

In the wake of the trial, police officials sought to dispel the notion that they
are taking aim at the Muslim community.

Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, said undercover
officers were used only to investigate reports of possible criminal activity.
This was the case, he said, with the detective involved in the investigation of
Mr. Siraj. The officer had been sent to live in Bay Ridge for two years.

''The notion that he was in there gratuitously observing the Muslim community is
false,'' Mr. Browne said.

The relationship between law enforcement and Muslims has long been fragile.

After Sept. 11, Muslims came under immediate and intense pressure by the
authorities. Hundreds of men were detained for questioning and thousands
nationwide were placed into deportation proceedings.

Over time, a necessary, if uncomfortable relationship emerged between Muslims
and the police watching over them. Efforts were made by both camps to cultivate
trust.

''We've been repairing the cracks steadily and gingerly,'' said Wael Mousfar,
the president of the Arab Muslim American Federation.

These days, police officers introduce themselves at Ramadan dinners and town
hall meetings. Federal agents sit on committees with Muslim activists and hold
workshops with imams.

Last month, the Police Department hired a Turkish immigrant to work as a
full-time liaison with the Muslim community.

But the Herald Square case gave pause to some of the Muslims involved in the
outreach.

''This is a real setback to the bridge building,'' said Michael Dibarro, a
Jordanian immigrant who until recently worked as a clergy liaison with the
Police Department. ''We had meaningful meetings. We thought we were going
somewhere with this.''

Others complained of what they see as a two-tiered approach by the authorities:
on one level it is public, and on another, it is hidden.

''They want to formally be introduced to the community but they don't need to
be,'' Ms. Sarsour said. ''They already have their informants among us.''

On May 12, in the middle of the trial of Mr. Siraj, Mr. Kelly met with 150
Muslims at a youth center in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. He showed them a 25-minute
video that the Police Department created to train new officers to be sensitive
toward Arabs and Muslims. He said he was there to hear their ''concerns about
issues of public safety,'' according to a transcript of his speech.

Only after several questions did anyone mention the trial. Debbie Almontaser, a
board member of a Muslim women's organization, told Mr. Kelly that she was
saddened that the police had resorted to ''F.B.I. tactics,'' and that she
thought this was polarizing the Muslim community.

Applause swept the room.

Mr. Kelly told the audience he could not comment on the case.

Whether it will seriously hinder relations between the authorities and Muslims
in New York remains to be seen. Some were doubtful.

''This is a chance to enhance our relationship with the police,'' said Antoine
Faisal, the publisher of Aramica, an Arabic and English language newspaper based
in Bay Ridge. ''These people are being paid to do their job.''

An air of suspicion hung over Bay Ridge well before Mr. Siraj was arrested in
August 2004. Some people stopped attending the neighborhood's two major mosques,
preferring to pray at home. Others no longer idle on the street after work.

''The vibe is not the same anymore,'' said Omar, 22, a Yemeni immigrant who
works at a bookstore and gave only his first name. ''We're exposed.''

Conversations are often carefully scripted. Several people interviewed said they
no longer discussed politics in public.

''When you sit down and politics comes to your head, you think, 'Who's around?'
'' said Mohammad Gheith, 17, a high school senior who often visits the
smoke-filled Meena House Cafe on Bay Ridge Avenue.

Several blocks away, at a grocery store along Fifth Avenue, Mahmoud Masoud said
he sensed the presence of informers.

''Sometimes you look a person in the eye, there's a feeling,'' said Mr. Masoud,
65, a Palestinian immigrant. ''You can say anything you want, but don't curse
the system. That's what they care about.''

Others in the neighborhood said they understood the need for informers, and were
not bothered by their presence.

''They have to watch the community,'' said Osama Elsakka, 41, an Egyptian
immigrant who drives a limousine. Mr. Elsakka said that he would readily inform
the police if he heard something suspicious, even if some of his friends
considered this a betrayal.

''I'm trying to defend the image of my religion,'' he said, explaining that he
thought that a person who entertains thoughts of terrorism is not a true Muslim.
''If someone is doing that, they've been brainwashed.''

On Wednesday afternoon, after Mr. Siraj's parents and uncle heard the verdict,
they drove to the uncle's Islamic bookstore, on Fifth Avenue in Bay Ridge. It
was there that their son first had encountered Osama Eldawoody, the informer,
who lived on Staten Island and earned about $100,000 for his work with the
police.

They pulled down the metal gate and locked the front door. It was hours before
the store's regular closing time.

''They hate us Muslims,'' said Mr. Siraj's mother, Shahina Parveen, steadying
herself on her husband's arm. ''My son is innocent. Eldawoody is criminal,'' she
said, yelling out the last word.

After they drove off, several men gathered for the afternoon prayer at the
mosque next door, the Islamic Society of Bay Ridge. Mr. Eldawoody had often
prayed with them.

The imam of the mosque, Sheik Reda Shata, said that he became suspicious after
Mr. Eldawoody tried to draw him into an illicit business deal in 2003 -- what he
now believes was an effort at entrapment. Police officials said this was false.

When Mr. Siraj was arrested, Mr. Eldawoody disappeared from the neighborhood.

The imam said Mr. Siraj should have ''cared more for the country he lived in,''
but did not deserve a lifetime prison term, which he could face at sentencing.

''He is a young man with very little experience in life and he was entrapped,
and that's obvious,'' he said. ''The informer tried to entrap me and it didn't
work.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many Muslims live in Bay Ridge, a neighborhood where a plot was
hatched to bomb a subway station.
 Inside the Hookah Tea Room in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Some Muslims in the
neighborhood say they are wary of talking about politics in public. (Photographs
by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Do Citizens Lose Jobs To Immigrants?

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 101 words



To the Editor:

Some questions about immigrants' taking jobs from citizens struck me when I read
''The 'Locusts' Have Their Day'' (editorial, May 14). Like the village of
Mamaroneck described in the editorial, many communities have areas where day
laborers congregate to be selected for odd jobs.

I wonder how many of those job seekers are United States citizens. Are
immigrants, legal or otherwise, hired at a greater rate? And if so, why? Do they
tolerate lower pay or poorer working conditions? Do they just work harder? Are
immigrants really taking jobs away from us citizens?

Terry Takahashi
Eugene, Ore.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Magistrate Rules That Government Must Reveal Monitoring

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


A federal magistrate in Brooklyn yesterday insisted that government lawyers
defending former Attorney General John Ashcroft and other top officials in a
lawsuit brought by former immigrant detainees cannot dodge the plaintiffs'
persistent and unwelcome question: Are members of the United States trial team
and likely witnesses -- including Mr. Ashcroft and Robert S. Mueller III, the
F.B.I. director -- aware of any secret government monitoring of communications
between the plaintiffs and their lawyers?

''Plaintiffs' effort to learn whether their conversations with their attorneys
were monitored by the government is not a mere fishing expedition based on
unfounded speculation,'' the magistrate, Judge Steven M. Gold, wrote in an
11-page decision. The order rejected the government's request that he reconsider
a similar order that he made orally on March 7.

He noted that ''the government's electronic surveillance of individuals
suspected of links to terrorism has received widespread publicity and has even
been acknowledged by the president of the United States.'' And he cited findings
by the inspector general that on more than 40 occasions, staff members of the
Metropolitan Detention Center secretly video-recorded visits between lawyers and
Muslim immigrants swept up and detained there after the Sept. 11 attacks, and
later deported after being cleared of links to terrorism.

Stephen E. Handler, a Justice Department lawyer, had argued that confirming or
denying such monitoring in one case and not another could ''tend to reveal
classified information.''

But Judge Gold rejected the government's main argument for silence. ''Any claim
that sensitive secrets would be revealed by the government's disclosure of
whether conversations between plaintiffs and their counsel in this case were
monitored is hard to fathom,'' he wrote.

A possible compromise negotiated over weeks of correspondence fell apart
recently. The compromise would have allowed government witnesses to sign a
statement affirming that one of four possibilities was true -- including, at
minimum, that if they were aware of electronic surveillance of lawyer-client
conversations, they had not used the substance to influence the conduct of the
case. But the government wanted to reserve the right to interview witnesses who
refused to sign.

''As plaintiffs' counsel have repeatedly argued,'' Judge Gold said, ''they seek
discovery here not only to help prepare their case, but also to ensure that the
defendants have not gained a tactical advantage by invading the attorney-client
privilege, and to attain some degree of comfort that they and their clients may
communicate without the chilling specter of government eavesdropping.''

Bill Goodman, the legal director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, which
brought the first class-action lawsuit by the detainees, said of the decision,
''This is the first crack in the granite wall that this government has been
interposing on the N.S.A. wiretapping program.''

A spokesman for the Justice Department could not be reached for comment last
night.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Build-a-Protest Approach to Immigration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30


Talk about constructive criticism.

Advocates of tougher border security have sent thousands of bricks to Senate and
House offices in recent weeks to make a none-too-subtle point with lawmakers
about where many of their constituents come down on emerging immigration bills.

Leaders of the campaign, which has delivered an estimated 10,000 bricks since it
began in April, said they had hit on the idea as a way to emphasize the benefits
of a fence along the border with Mexico.

In an age when professionally planned lobbying campaigns have long since
overwhelmed spontaneous grass-roots pressure, organizers of the brick brigade
said they also saw an opportunity to deliver a missive not easily discarded.

''E-mails are so common now,'' said Kirsten Heffron, a Virginian who is helping
coordinate the effort. ''It is really easy for the office to say duly noted, hit
delete and never think about it again.''

If the impact was notable, so were the logistical difficulties, particularly
given the mail screening and other protective measures put into effect at the
Capitol after the anthrax attacks of 2001.

Initially, organizers of the Send-a-Brick Project encouraged people to send
bricks on their own, and Ms. Heffron said things had gone relatively smoothly.

But many people, she said, preferred that the organization itself send the
bricks and an accompanying letter to selected lawmakers.

The project will do it for an $11.95 fee. So when 2,000 individually boxed
bricks showed up at once, Senate officials balked, threatening to force the
group to pay postage to have each delivered to its intended recipient. The
dispute left the bricks stacked up until an agreement to distribute them was
worked out.

''We received them and we delivered them to all the addressees,'' said a
spokeswoman for the office of the Senate sergeant-at-arms.

As the bricks landed in Congressional mailrooms and cramped offices, the effort
was applauded in some offices but drew a bemused response elsewhere.

''Given the approval ratings of Congress these days, I guess we should all be
grateful the bricks are coming through the mail, not the window,'' said Dan
Pfeiffer, a spokesman for Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana.

The senders of the bricks were encouraged to add a letter telling lawmakers that
the brick represented a start on building a border wall.

Many could not resist putting their own message on the bricks. ''No Amnesty,''
said a typical one, referring to a contested Senate plan to allow some illegal
immigrants to qualify eventually for citizenship. ''Stop the Invasion, Build a
Wall,'' said another brick painted like a flag and shown on the group's Web site
at www.send-a-brick.com.

Besides the border fence, the group supports technology improvements for border
security, added money and personnel for the Border Patrol and an enhanced
security presence in general on the southern border.

The brick effort was scheduled to wind down this week, though the organization
encouraged people to continue if they desired.

On Tuesday, representatives of the architect of the Capitol collected bricks
from lawmakers' offices and stacked them on loading docks with plans to donate
them to a nonprofit group.

In a letter he circulated on Tuesday, Representative Scott Garrett, Republican
of New Jersey, encouraged his colleagues to donate their bricks to a Habitat for
Humanity resale store in Virginia, so the proceeds could go to that
organization's projects.

''Through the Send-a-Brick Project, our constituents have found a solid way to
communicate their feelings about illegal immigration,'' Mr. Garrett wrote in a
draft of his letter. ''Whether you agree with their message or not, we think
that this campaign has given Capitol Hill a positive opportunity to turn bricks
into buildings.''

Ms. Heffron, who has been active in political campaigns and public affairs, said
her organization was comfortable with the bricks being put to other uses after
they had made their point.

She said the campaign had grown out of frustration expressed in an online forum
on immigration issues over resistance by some lawmakers to erecting a wall.
Another impetus was a desire for a counterpoint to large rallies by advocates of
immigrants' rights.

Given the success of the initiative, she said, the group may turn its attention
to lobbying lawmakers in their home districts this summer and may have a role in
a demonstration in Washington. She said she hoped that the brick barrage showed
lawmakers that when it comes to immigration, the weight of public opinion is on
the side of border security.

''I think they don't realize the passion of it,'' she said of some lawmakers.
''Maybe it is going to take a little protest in the streets to get our voices
heard as well.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bricks from the Send-a-Brick Project on a loading dock yesterday
at the Dirksen Senate Office Building. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats See Opportunity in Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1336 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, June 2


As they survey a political landscape that looks increasingly favorable to them,
Democrats are suddenly focusing on Arizona, once-hostile territory that could
prove crucial to their hopes of recapturing the Senate this year.

What once seemed a long shot to Democrats -- unseating Senator Jon Kyl, the
two-term incumbent Republican -- has in recent weeks shifted to the realm of the
possible.

His Democratic challenger, Jim Pederson, a wealthy shopping mall developer,
seems to be benefiting from the national decline in support for Republicans and
President Bush. Mr. Pederson is using the dominant issue here, illegal
immigration, to try to make inroads among centrist and independent voters.

''Kyl is carrying that albatross of closeness to the president and the
president's untimely demise in the public esteem,'' said Earl de Berge, research
director of the independent Rocky Mountain Poll here, citing public concerns
about the Iraq war, high gasoline prices and other factors.

Recent polls here have showed Mr. Kyl, 64, with a lead of some 10 percentage
points, compared with 20 or more in surveys earlier this year. The National
Journal, the political weekly based in Washington, recently elevated the race to
among the top 10 most-competitive Senate races.

National Democrats are beginning to smell blood and are talking of yet another
race among a handful that could push them closer to the six seats they need to
retake the Senate.

''We're feeling very good about Arizona,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of
New York, who heads the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. He said he
could not imagine saying such a thing a year ago.

Democrats are also in competitive races for three or so Congressional seats
here, including a crowded field from both parties vying for the seat of
Representative Jim Kolbe, a Republican representing a border area who is
retiring.

But it is the Kyl race that has raised eyebrows, especially because Mr. Pederson
is not well known outside of political circles -- he once headed the state
Democratic Party -- and has never run for office.

Beyond its possible role in determining whether Republicans can retain control
of the Senate, the race between Mr. Kyl and Mr. Pederson is also highlighting
the complex politics of immigration.

Here in this border state, where the Minutemen civilian patrol group is busy
building a fence on the border, where more people cross illegally than anywhere
else in the country, it is not surprising that the issue is Topic A in the
campaign.

Mr. Kyl takes a harder line, emphasizing border enforcement and scoffing at the
proposal, included in legislation passed last month by the Senate and supported
in a general sense by the president, to ease the way toward citizenship for
illegal immigrants already here. His stance puts him in line with most
grass-roots conservatives, who object to legislation that they believe grants
amnesty to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Pederson is taking the position held by Arizona's other Republican senator,
John McCain, who breaks with conservative orthodoxy on some issues and who
supports providing most illegal immigrants with an eventual chance to become
citizens.

Mr. Pederson, 63, drops Mr. McCain's name frequently, and in a television
commercial promises he would be ''an independent senator who gets results and
puts the people of Arizona ahead of party politics.''

To the chagrin of Mr. McCain, Mr. Pederson has used a quotation of his calling
Mr. Kyl's suggestion that immigrants return to their countries before applying
for any temporary worker program ''bordering on fantasy.''

Both sides are building up their bank accounts for what may become a very hard
fought and expensive race. Former President Bill Clinton, who lost this state in
1992 but won it in 1996, spoke Thursday at a Pederson fund-raiser that netted
$500,000.

Later this month, Laura Bush, the first lady, plans to help raise money for Mr.
Kyl, after fund-raising appearances by other party luminaries like Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger of California; Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York;
and Vice President Dick Cheney.

Mr. Kyl has raised more than $9 million compared with Mr. Pederson's $4 million.
The state Republican Party has accused Mr. Pederson of seeking to ''buy'' a seat
after he has put more than $3 million of his own money into his campaign. The
Kyl campaign has suggested that it demonstrates tepid support of Mr. Pederson
among donors.

Although it has had the reputation as being a hotbed of conservatism, Arizona is
difficult to characterize, and its politics are in flux.

Republicans still predominate in voter registration, but the margin is shrinking
and the state has long moved past the era of the legendary conservative Barry
Goldwater, one of Mr. Kyl's political heroes. About 40 percent are Republicans,
34 percent Democrats and 26 percent independents or other parties.

Mr. Pederson may already be riding the coattails of Gov. Janet Napolitano, a
popular Democrat who is seeking a second term this year. He helped get her
elected by managing the state Democratic Party at her behest in her 2002 race.

Mr. Kyl largely operates in the shadow of Mr. McCain -- newspapers have dubbed
him ''the other guy'' -- who serves as his campaign chairman.

They parted ways on the Senate immigration bill, with Mr. Kyl voting against it,
and both will serve on a conference committee that will try to negotiate a
compromise with the House.

Mr. Kyl concedes that he does not depend on charisma. He said he preferred to
work behind the scenes on legislation. In that sense, he said, he is a contrast
to Mr. McCain, who gets more attention because he ''is a war hero who ran for
president, a great personality and has worked very hard at establishing
familiarity with the people in the national media.''

Like Mr. Pederson, who noticeably read from his speech as he introduced Mr.
Clinton, Mr. Kyl's public presence can be decidedly low wattage and sometimes
awkward. At a luncheon Wednesday before a tax policy group, he fumbled for
nearly a minute midspeech, with the sound of clinking forks filling the space,
as he tracked down a statistic in his papers to make a point about the benefits
of tax cuts to Arizonans.

But Mr. Kyl said his lack of flash was compensated with achievements like
helping to broker a settlement of water-rights claims by a Native American
tribe.

''Not many people can appreciate the significance of the largest water
settlement in the history of the country,'' Mr. Kyl said, but ''for the future
of our state ensuring a stable water supply is just critical.''

Mr. Kyl said he had stood his ground on immigration because of the 139,000
illegal immigrants with criminal records that the Department of Homeland
Security said were caught at the border last year. He suggested the figure might
actually be higher, based on Border Patrol estimates that three people make it
into the country for every one that is caught.

''That probably means there were close to half a million people entering this
country with criminal backgrounds,'' he said, though the government has made no
such estimate. ''That's a serious problem.''

His campaign suggests that Mr. Pederson's gain is not unexpected given all the
advertising the Democrat has broadcast, four television commercials to Mr. Kyl's
one. The Republicans' supporters said they were not worried about losing.

''The race had to tighten,'' Mr. Kyl said. ''I had a huge lead, which was
unnatural.''

Mr. Pederson comes from the breed of executive-turned-politician and counts as a
friend and counselor Jon S. Corzine, the New Jersey governor and former United
States senator who was a Goldman Sachs executive before turning to politics.

He likened his campaign to building a shopping center, assembling architects
(strategists), marketing professionals (media consultants) and builders
(campaign volunteers) into one package.

''I have built 25 shopping malls,'' he said, ''and not one of them was
unsuccessful.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Pederson, left, the Democratic challenger, got some
fund-raising help from former President Bill Clinton on Thursday in Phoenix.
 Senator Jon Kyl, right, is a Republican incumbent seeking re-election in
Arizona. He met Robert Kahl at a recent campaign event in Tucson. (Photographs
by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spoonfuls of Culture Help Medicine Go Down

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1215 words


When officials at Brooklyn's Maimonides Medical Center were preparing a new
clinic in Sunset Park in April, everything was ready for the big opening day
except the big opening day itself.

''One of our staff members told us it was an unlucky date,'' said Pamela S.
Brier, the hospital's chief executive. ''We had to change it.''

So the ribbon-cutting, originally scheduled for April 24, was moved to the
following day. It was a difference of only 24 hours, but all the difference in
the world to the Chinese immigrants the clinic was largely built to serve, who
believed the 25th to be a more auspicious date.

It was one of the many ways in which the $1 million clinic was carefully
designed to cater to Sunset Park's fast-growing Chinese population, one of the
largest in the city.

Because the color white is associated with death in China, the walls are mostly
painted in yellow and pink tones. And because Chinese immigrants have high rates
of tuberculosis infection, every patient is tested for it. The chefs in the main
hospital's kosher kitchen have learned to prepare rice porridge, a beloved
Chinese comfort food. ''Language, culture, food -- it's all tremendously
important,'' Ms. Brier said.

The new clinic is Maimonides's most ambitious effort to respond to a growing and
increasingly diverse population of immigrant patients. It also reflects a
broader national shift in health care as urban hospitals move beyond the
translation services that started becoming common in the late 1990's and
acknowledge that language is not the only barrier they face in treating people
from all over the globe.

Some come from cultures that are broadly skeptical of Western medicine, and
prefer the herbs and poultices of traditional healers, ''cures'' that in some
cases can retard the effects of prescribed medicines or produce dangerous
interactions. Others come from cultures where they are expected to hide sickness
from strangers, or where it might be offensive for male doctors to examine
female patients.

''It's been a slow trend to develop because it's not always clear to a hospital
how big a certain community might be, and sometimes it takes a couple of years
to manifest,'' said Rick Wade, a senior vice president of the American Hospital
Association. But now, he said, programs are appearing everywhere, to strengthen
what hospitals call ''cultural competency.''

At Oakwood Hospital in heavily Arab Dearborn, Mich., nurses are trained to point
the beds of Muslim patients toward Mecca. In Glendale, Calif., which had a rapid
influx of Armenian immigrants during the 1990's, one hospital sponsors a popular
health-related call-in show that is broadcast in Armenian on cable-access
television.

But challenges can be more varied and daunting for hospitals in places like
Brooklyn, home to insular communities of Orthodox Jews, Muslims from
conservative Arab countries, recent immigrants from rural China and Hispanics
from Central and South America, among many others.

''In each culture that we're dealing with, there are different ideas, family
values and beliefs, whether about medicine or life in general,'' said Virginia
Tong, a vice president at Lutheran Medical Center, one of south Brooklyn's
largest health care providers. ''Let's say you had an Hispanic godparent who
brought a patient in to see a doctor. In this country, we would say, 'That's not
a parent;' there might be legal issues. But in their culture, godparents are
almost as important as parents.''

Lutheran's main hospital has a mosque on site; it also runs clinics aimed at
Caribbean and Korean immigrants. In 2001, Lutheran opened its own Chinese
clinic, on Eighth Avenue in Sunset Park, after a survey showed that most Chinese
immigrants in the area were going to Chinatown in Manhattan for medical care.

Maimonides, long known as ''the Jewish hospital,'' in Ms. Brier's words, has in
recent years customized the care at many of its 15 clinics, which are around
southwest Brooklyn, based on the cultures and needs of the patients each serves.

The doctors at the hospital's Newkirk Avenue clinic, for example, see many
Indian immigrants, who have disproportionately high rates of hypertension. Its
pediatricians also see many children born in Bangladesh. Because infants there
are often not immunized against measles, as most babies are in the United
States, that means more effort devoted to vaccination and extra care in
reporting cases to public health officials to contain any outbreaks.

But the hospital's outreach to Chinese immigrants is its biggest, driven by what
its officials believe will be continued population growth in south Brooklyn.
''We go where the patients are,'' Ms. Brier said.

Maimonides opened its first Sunset Park clinic in a brownstone building in 1996.
Within three years, doctors there were seeing 9,000 patients a year, including a
growing number of Chinese. The number of patients has doubled since, prompting
the latest move from a storefront space to a 10,000-square-foot building on
Seventh Avenue and 64th Street.

The attending doctors there speak Mandarin or Cantonese, two major Chinese
dialects. About 70 percent of the patients are Chinese, according to Dr. Bing
Lu, the clinic's medical director, and a significant number are recent arrivals
to the United States. Many hold the traditional belief, he said, that drawing
blood for tests drains a person's life force, and they are reluctant to allow
it.

''We teach them that they need it,'' he added, relying on the staff members'
language skills and familiarity with Chinese culture to reduce patients'
suspicion. ''Generally speaking, Chinese people don't believe in preventative
care.''

Such an attitude can be deadly. A few years ago, doctors at the clinic found
early signs of liver cancer in a man in his 30's who was infected with hepatitis
B. The man left the clinic, Dr. Lu said, and did not return the clinic's phone
calls. When he finally came back six months later, he was jaundiced and
underweight, with a severely enlarged liver. The cancer had advanced beyond the
possibility of life-prolonging surgery.

It was ''a fatal mistake,'' said Dr. Lu, who believes the man at first sought
out traditional healers instead of returning to the clinic.

Several patients praised the doctors' warmth and staff members' willingness to
help them with paperwork. Susan Lin, 31, who emigrated from China's Fujian
Province five years ago, said, through an interpreter: ''Sometimes we're afraid
to ask questions, to ask how to follow up. Here, they always smile, they are
always welcoming. You feel very comfortable asking questions.''

Recently, an 80-year-old woman arrived at the clinic just before closing time,
asking to see a doctor. She said it was urgent, but when examined she would say
only that she had been unable to sleep for about a week.

Under careful questioning, Dr. Lu said, she eventually revealed that her husband
had died the previous week, and that she had been crying and having anxiety
attacks, details that a Chinese woman her age might consider inappropriate to
admit.

''When you know the culture, you know it's normal, but if you don't, as a
practitioner, you can miss a significant problem,'' Dr. Lu said. ''She could
easily have been turned away from the clinic that day.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a new Brooklyn clinic, Dr. Jason Wu, top, examines William
Hung, 4, as his father, Rong Hung, demonstrates saying ''ah.'' Sue Ng, a clinic
translator, talks with Chikwan Hui, a patient, in a waiting room decorated with
Asian art. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Entrepreneurs From Russia, A Short Course in Capitalism

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words


Len Bersh, though born in the former Soviet Union, knows a lot about American
capitalism. Since immigrating to New York 13 years ago, he has earned M.B.A. and
law degrees, joined a practice specializing in patent law and earlier this year
started a Web-based business that sells lighting products.

And on Monday nights at the Zicklin School of Business at Baruch College in
Manhattan, he imparts his knowledge to former countrymen, in Russian.

''They already have their mind set in the right direction by being in America,''
Mr. Bersh said of the participants in the business basics workshop for Russian
entrepreneurs, a kind of crash course in American capitalism that meets two and
a half hours a week for six weeks.

The series is the latest offering for would-be entrepreneurs at the school's
Lawrence N. Field Center for Entrepreneurship, which provides business training
and financial advice through seminars, workshops and one-on-one counseling,
helping some 1,200 aspiring and existing business owners start or expand small
businesses each year.

The center's offerings -- 45 different workshops were scheduled last year --
cover basics like e-commerce, franchising and how to develop a business plan,
and also specialty topics, like doing business in China and running a home-based
business. A recent pilot program focused on business resources for people with
disabilities. A workshop for technology entrepreneurs, aimed at scientists
interested in commercializing their work, is planned for the fall.

''Entrepreneurs need a very broad array of services and information, and they
need it on their own unique terms,'' said Edward G. Rogoff, the center's
academic director, who is also a management professor at the school of business
and co-author of ''The Entrepreneurial Conversation'' (Pinnacle Books). ''We try
to create programs and services that are highly customized.''

While classes have been taught in Spanish and Korean in the past, ''most people
who come to the center are familiar with how the American system works,''
Professor Rogoff said. Koreans, for example, ''are highly entrepreneurial.'' But
the Russian class was particularly challenging, he said.

Mr. Bersh, the Russian workshop instructor, addressed the differences.
Marketing, for example, got a lot of attention. Because of the scarcity of
products in Russia, marketing is not as critical there as it is in America. And
many participants, used to bribery and corruption, were skeptical of the
American system. Mr. Bersh gave the example of affixing a neon sign to the
exterior of a business in New York City, which would probably require a permit.
Obtaining permissions in Russia, he said, involves ''more under-the-table type
of deals.''

Yuliya Mazur, who came to the United States almost nine years ago, was in Mr.
Bersh's first session in February. She had dreamed of opening a restaurant in
Russia, but it was ''relatively dangerous to have a business,'' because the
unstable economic climate sometimes led to violence.

But five months after she arrived in America, her husband died. With two
children to support, she postponed her plans. ''I was struggling to make a
living,'' she said.

Mrs. Mazur recently approached the Hebrew Free Loan Society, an organization
that grants interest-free loans to emigres from the former Soviet Union.

Natasha Srulowitz, a program coordinator for the society, said that ''Russians
tend to dive in'' though it is hard for them to get the education they need.
''They try to keep their heads above water. They are not learning how to do a
business plan on Excel.''

So the society worked with the center to set up the Russian workshop.

''It's a way to hedge the risk,'' Ms. Srulowitz said, ''because we think it is
that critical.''

In March, after completing the six-week course at the center, and assisted by a
society loan, Mrs. Mazur bought Grille de Paris, a kosher French restaurant in
Brooklyn.

Established in 1993, the Field Center houses one of 23 regional small-business
development centers in New York State, financed in part by the federal Small
Business Administration. The center receives additional support from a variety
of public and private sources. Its services are available, free, to anyone in
New York State interested in a for-profit business.

Many who come to the center, like Mrs. Mazur, have no previous experience in
owning a business. Others, like Gwen Whiting and Lindsey Wieber, who two years
ago opened the Laundress, a collection of specialty fabric care products,
detergents and accessories, were fairly far along by the time they arrived at
the center.

''We had everything researched to a T,'' Ms. Whiting said. Both had been
involved in small-business ventures before and had worked in the fashion
industry.

But even with the experience, working with a business adviser ''added layers, it
forced us to think out three or four years,'' Ms. Wieber said. The adviser also
helped revise their business plan, originally tailored to investors, to conform
to what a bank would want for additional financing. And the two owners, who sell
their products wholesale and online, were advised that they could not afford a
storefront, part of their original business plan.

The center does not lend money, said Monica Dean, the administrative director,
but the counselors ''have personal relationships with bankers so that clients
will not go blind.''

''Some banks don't do restaurants or start-ups,'' she said. ''Some are O.K.
funding start-ups.''

E. London, co-owner of Xtra Diva, a by-appointment boutique in Manhattan for
discount clothing for women, was counseled by a business adviser to forgo a
$150,000 loan that had been approved, and to focus on building the business more
slowly.

The counselor also advised on researching demographics and ''how to find a
mailing list at a good price,'' Ms. London said.

The center does not track how many participants start businesses or how
successful each business is, Ms. Dean said.

But in the last five years, the center estimates, clients of the center created
or saved more than 2,300 jobs, and accounted for more than $44 million in
economic impact in the greater New York area.

Not all clients start businesses, of course. Some come once and never return,
said Ulas Neftci, one of four business advisers who provide one-on-one
counseling, often in conjuction with business school faculty members and M.B.A.
student interns.

He said the most successful clients were those with a ''healthy combination'' of
money sense and a touch of the ''romantic entrepreneur'' -- an emotional love of
the business they plan to go into.

''It is not going to be as fun as you think'' is how Mr. Neftci puts it to
clients. ''Many want to be their own bosses,'' he said. ''But it is not like the
boss goes away. The client is the new boss.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Len Bersh, right, teaches fellow Russian immigrants, in Russian,
how business is done in the United States. Marketing, for example, is more
important here than there. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Utah Guard Set For Projects On U.S. Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz., June 4


The first National Guard troops sent to assist immigration agents prepared
Sunday to work on projects near a fortified stretch of desert along the Mexican
border.

The 55 Utah National Guard members will begin work on Monday extending fences,
improving gravel roads and working on border lighting near the town of San Luis,
Ariz., which is part of the nation's busiest Border Patrol station.

''They are putting everything together so they can hit the ground running,''
said Maj. Hank McIntire, a spokesman for the Utah National Guard.

The troops are part of President Bush's plan to send up to 6,000 National Guard
members to the four border states to perform support duties that will allow
immigration agents to focus on border security. The Guard members will not
perform significant law enforcement duties.

The National Guard members, who arrived in Arizona on Saturday, also were
briefed on the duties of the Border Patrol and given tips on staying hydrated in
the triple-digit heat of the Arizona desert.

Officials say 300 National Guard soldiers from Arizona are expected to begin
arriving at the state's border in mid-June.

About 170 troops are already helping federal and state officers there with
communications, fence construction and anti-drug efforts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Need for Vodka Money Fueled Fire, One Theory Goes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON and ANN FARMER; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting
for this article.

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 702 words


Years of alcoholism dragged Leszek Kuczera, a 59-year-old Polish immigrant, from
steady work to a life of homelessness, begging and selling stolen copper as
scrap metal for vodka money, his brother and friends said yesterday.

It was that quest for copper that led him to set the fire on May 2 that grew to
a 10-alarm blaze at the Greenpoint Terminal Market, destroying historic
warehouses along the Brooklyn waterfront, the police said. Hundreds of
firefighters fought the fire.

Mr. Kuczera had been trying to melt the insulation off a long length of copper
wire inside the vacant warehouses, using a pile of eight flaming truck tires to
do the job quicker, the police said. Detectives are looking for another suspect.

Descriptions of Mr. Kuczera suggest that he had been a man roaming his small
universe in Greenpoint desperate for a payday. He had not worked since a stint
of five months or so he spent helping with the cleanup at ground zero, said his
brother, Yurik Kuczera, 49, a construction worker currently at a job in Las
Vegas.

''Leszek every day drink, drink,'' he said in a phone interview. ''No work, no
job, no work.'' He said the drinking worsened after the ground zero work. ''This
is an alcoholic, not working. This is a sick man,'' he said.

Mr. Kuczera moved to New York from the city of Lublin in Poland 14 or 15 years
ago, leaving behind a wife, Hanna, and a son and two daughters, his brother
said. For several years, he was able to hold down a full-time job removing
asbestos, his brother said. He shared an apartment for a while with another
Polish man, Waldemar Makowski, an elevator repairman, but was thrown out, and
returned often to borrow money, said the building's superintendent, Ludvik
Knatkowska.

''Every day drink, drink and don't work,'' Mr. Knatkowska said. ''He comes here
once in a while to get a dollar or two or food, but I kicked him out because he
was a thief. He'll say it's for food, but he'll use it for alcohol.''

Mr. Kuczera's brother tried in vain to urge him to return to Poland.

Yurik Kuczera's roommate in Brooklyn, Wiesiek Mastowski, said: ''Yurik gives him
money. Like $20, like $100. Like a brother.''

Mr. Kuczera was a regular at Irene's Bar in Greenpoint. ''Every day, drunk,''
said a customer there who did not give his name, but appeared familiar with the
lifestyle. ''Go look in the bathroom in the park. Drunk bum, and that's it.''

Mr. Kuczera had been convicted of several misdemeanor crimes in Brooklyn,
including trespassing, petty larceny and possession of stolen property and
burglary tools. The criminal complaints filed in court suggest that he was a
bungling thief.

On June 22, 2004, a woman saw him trying to break into her car at the corner of
Fulton Street and Alabama Avenue, and he was arrested.

On Sept. 6, 2005, Asin Shahzad, the owner of a convenience store on Manhattan
Avenue, caught Mr. Kuczera trying to steal a case of Coca-Cola, he said
yesterday.

On June 28, 2004, in Long Island City, Queens, a worker noticed that a truck had
been moved from its spot in the parking lot where it had been left and had
rammed into a parked car. The police came and found Mr. Kuczera slumped behind
the wheel, according to the complaint. He pleaded guilty to unauthorized use of
a vehicle.

In a case that may have foreshadowed the fire, Mr. Kuczera was caught stealing a
long copper pipe from a metal shop on Provost Street on Nov. 4, 2004, according
to a police complaint, and he was arrested. A manager, Stephen Hyun, said the
shop no longer bought scrap metal from Mr. Kuczera.

Others did. If Mr. Kuczera walked past any empty can, he stooped to pick it up
for money from recycling, his friends said. He was a member of the ragtag
community of men who roam the waterfront, sit in parks and sleep in empty
buildings, his own preferred spot an alcove in an alley off Milton Avenue, near
the East River, said a man who identified himself as Ra, 36, a squatter who
lives in a building at the Greenpoint Terminal Market that was not consumed by
the fire. But Mr. Kuczera angered the others when he began lighting fires, Ra
said.

''He used to burn the copper wires by the river,'' he said. ''He is not playing
with a full deck.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leszek Kuczera in Manhattan yesterday. The police say that he
and another man, both of them homeless, started a huge Brooklyn fire trying to
melt insulation off copper wire they intended to sell as scrap metal. (Photo by
John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Danbury Mayor Cuts the Noise On Immigration

BYLINE: By Joseph Berger.

E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; CONNECTICUT JOURNAL;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words


MARK D. BOUGHTON, the mayor of Danbury who won a national reputation for talking
tough to illegal immigrants, is a descendant of immigrants. Only his
French-British ancestors arrived in this country a few decades after the
Mayflower.

It is understandable that one could forget after all this time that coming to a
new land is an awkward business, and that the natives may not be happy with the
newcomers' outlandish ways. Let's remember that despite the initial good will
that we romanticize on Thanksgiving, the Indians grew quite upset with the
Pilgrim interlopers and killed more than a few.

So when Mayor Boughton had to confront the customs of some newer immigrants --
Ecuadoreans and other Latinos -- his first response was on the harsh side. He
had the police crack down, issuing cease-and-desist orders though not making
arrests, and he called for deputizing the state police to enforce federal
immigration laws, a request that was denied.

His displeasure was with volleyball, one of the more unusual incitements for a
debate that is popping up all over the country. Ecuadoreans, who make up 5,000
of the increasingly corporate city's 77,000 inhabitants, are volleyball zealots.

In recent years immigrants in Danbury who had done well enough to have backyards
began inviting friends over for late-night games that drew large crowds. They
played under glaring lights. Cars clogged placid streets. The friends brought --
and sometimes sold -- beer. Neighbors complained. Television got wind. And,
wham, Danbury became a national byword for how immigrants spoil suburban life.

That was a year ago, but Danbury and its immigrants seem to be working things
out, and that story hasn't been told enough. The mayor has almost doubled the
number of volleyball courts in the 58-acre Rogers Park to nine so backyards are
less necessary. On July 4, he will welcome 50 new citizens in a ceremony in
Tarrywile Park. Immigrant leaders are no longer quick to accuse the mayor of
anti-immigrant bias, as they did last year, let alone use the R-word.

''I have seen the mayor grow tremendously,'' said Maria-Cinta Lowe, director of
the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury. ''I think he realized it was a big
mistake.'' She said that the mayor had sent a representative to a meeting of an
anti-immigrant group, but ''they were so hateful he saw that going that way was
not the best way,'' she said.

For their part, immigrant leaders like Wilson Hernandez-- his father back in
Ecuador was charmed by that American president's name -- have put out the word
that bright lights and blocked driveways are taboo. Indeed, Mr. Hernandez, a
former president of Danbury's Ecuadorean Civic Center who owns a popular
rice-and-beans joint called La Mitad Del Mundo, thinks a public squabble might
have been avoided had authorities simply enlightened greenhorns about the law.

''They didn't think they were doing anything wrong,'' he said of his
compatriots. ''Assimilating to a culture is a process.''

Of course, the 42-year-old mayor won't admit he made a mistake. A former Danbury
High School history teacher who became mayor in 2001, he is marinating as a
politician, and few politicians admit mistakes. If they do, they spin them
slyly. ''I certainly would not apologize for asking that the law of the U.S. be
enforced,'' he said.

He defends his unsuccessful bid to have the police enforce immigration law,
saying federal agents were doing nothing about an illegal population that had
swelled to perhaps 10,000 people who have been overcrowding housing and
clustering on street corners looking for jobs.

But it is not too farfetched to imagine that after the mayor met enough times
with Mr. Hernandez and other immigrants he realized that, legal or not, they are
mostly trying to gain a foothold in this country: earn a living
catch-as-catch-can, get their children American schooling and enjoy life a
little. Perhaps, Mr. Hernandez speculated, the mayor thought ''playing the
immigration card was his best shot,'' particularly in an election year. (He won
easily last November.)

''He was using one message with his constituents and one with immigrants,'' Mr.
Hernandez said. ''He was saying, 'I love immigrants. I'm not a racist.' '' At
the same time, he was calling for ''deputizing the police to get rid of
immigrants.''

The mayor is now more accommodating, Mr. Hernandez said. ''He wants a clean
city, we want a clean city,'' he said. ''He wants a city where everyone
appreciates each other. We want that, too. What he's recognizing is that he's
mayor of a multicultural city.''

Mr. Boughton now speaks proudly of working with other mayors and county
executives around the country to press for immigration reform. One idea he is
mulling is allowing immigrants to earn legal residency by doing 1,000 hours of
community service like working in parks.

If he talks like a candidate with a national perspective, that's because there
is scuttlebutt that Mr. Boughton may run for Congress. If so, Mr. Hernandez will
support him. ''He'll be good for us because we know him already,'' he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 14, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Newcomers Find Courage Down a Yellow Brick Road

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip.

E-mail: edmike@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION;
Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1158 words


DIANA SENECHAL is a first-year teacher of immigrant students at I.S. 223, a
middle school in Brooklyn, and maybe, if she'd been more experienced, she would
have known better than to have her students perform ''The Wizard of Oz'' when
they were so new to this country and spoke so little English.

They arrived at I.S. 223 talking 24 different languages and not knowing a soul.
About the only thing they shared was a shyness of speaking English aloud.

Ms. Senechal figured, what better way to give them confidence than to have them
sing and dance in an hour-and-a-half-long musical, for three performances at the
end of the school year, in the big auditorium, before a thousand strangers?

Her students weren't so sure. As Shamsul Huda from Bangladesh, the Tin Man,
said, ''I'm scary to do it.''

Rehearsals started in January, and it was slow going. Sergio Sanchez, from
Mexico, the lead Munchkin, was so shy, he kept running away. ''The funny thing
about Sergio, he loved running away,'' Ms. Senechal said. ''We were rehearsing
in my room and he just stood outside for an hour; he wouldn't come in.''

In the auditorium, he hid behind the curtains. Still, Ms. Senechal did not give
up. ''It's a positive pattern,'' she explained. ''He hides but wants to be
here.''

Laura Fronczak of Poland -- Glinda the Good Witch -- kept refusing to sing her
big solo. She'd have a giggling fit and announce, ''Miss, I can't sing today,''
and it was like Marlene Dietrich wanting to be alone; there was nothing Ms.
Senechal could do, except wait, for weeks. ''When Laura finally sang,'' Ms.
Senechal said, ''it was such a big event, I called her parents.''

Some complained that Yasser Arafath, the Cowardly Lion, was mumbling. But Ms.
Senechal said: ''He'll be fine. Yasser has a very, very quiet spirit. He seems
shy but is very strong and steadfast.''

Camila Tavarez, from the Dominican Republic, didn't want to be the Wicked Witch
of the West, so Ms. Senechal cut a deal. ''I said, 'You don't have to be an ugly
witch, you don't even have to be green, you can be a beautiful wicked witch.' ''

Several girls wear scarves for religious reasons, and Ms. Senechal chose one,
Asfara Begum, from Bangladesh, to be Dorothy.

Dorothy with a head scarf? ''Did you notice her smile?'' Ms. Senechal said.
''She has a radiant nature.''

Rehearsals went on daily for five months, using the 37.5 minutes that usually
gets spent on test prep and tutoring. The principal, Gertrude Adduci, got it
right away. ''The Wizard of Oz'' -- it's about them,'' Ms. Adduci said. ''If
you're new to this country, you need courage.''

THEY did. In mid-May, the two chorus lines were still banging into each other
during ''Ding-Dong, the Witch is Dead.'' It was obvious that Jesse Canete, a
member of the Lollipop Guild, had never been a dancer back in Mexico. ''Jesse,
start on your right foot,'' Ms. Senechal pleaded. ''No, no, this is your right
foot,'' she said, wiggling a right foot at him.

The day before the premiere, she still had one Munchkin and one Winkie costume
to sew. In dark moments she wondered if she'd taken on too much, but she never
let the students see that. What they saw was how much she cared. ''Miss talks to
us like we're relatives,'' said Shamsul the Tin Man.

People who teach English classes for immigrants aren't required to speak other
languages, but if, like Ms. Senechal, they do, it helps them understand how a
new language is acquired.

Ms. Senechal is 42 and not a typical first-year teacher. She has a doctorate
from Yale in Slavic languages, is fluent in Russian and Spanish, speaks French
and Dutch, and has studied Lithuanian, Croatian, Latin and Greek. She came to
I.S. 223, in the Borough Park neighborhood, through the city's Teaching Fellows
program, which recruits people who have had other careers.

''One way I pick up language is through memorization of music and poetry,'' Ms.
Senechal said. ''For me, the arts are an important inroad into a language.'' The
Wizard also gave her a perfect story line. Sergio the Munchkin said moving from
Mexico to Brooklyn, ''it's like we come over the rainbow.''

Education is a big reason their families sacrificed. The Tin Man's father owned
two stores in Bangladesh; here, he's a laborer. The Wicked Witch's mother was a
lawyer, and cleans houses here.

Students interviewed said this school was better than the ones they had attended
in their native lands. ''This is a high education place,'' the Tin Man said. ''A
lot of more satisfactory things than in Bangladesh.''

Ms. Senechal sees a school that takes poor children -- 100 percent get free
lunches -- and provides opportunity. This is why she has no faith in the federal
No Child Left Behind law, which labels I.S. 223 a failing school. While I.S. 223
students in every racial and ethnic subgroup made their testing goals in
English, math and science, the law requires 95 percent to be tested, and on the
English exam, the school was 7 students short. ''That makes us a failing
school?'' she said. ''Nonsense. Remarkable things happen at this school.''

Ms. Senechal watched her students working together to get the English words
right for the play.

''Emeny?'' said Laura the Good Witch.

''Enemy,'' said Yestak Haq, the Scarecrow.

''Emer-rolled City?'' Laura said.

''Emerald,'' said Shahwar Bibi, the lead Winkie.

The teacher saw signs of Americanization right before her eyes. On the afternoon
of opening night, Asfara -- sporting a blue gingham pinafore, ruby slippers, a
stuffed Toto and braids -- decided not to wear her head scarf. ''This is quite a
development,'' said Ms. Senechal, who made her call home before the performance.

''My mother says, 'All right, it looks nice, I can do for a day, that's O.K.,'
'' Asfara reported back.

The show started at 8 past the hour, just as on Broadway. Ms. Senechal was
stationed in front of the stage, and to avoid distracting the audience, crawled
between the sound board stage left (she'd put microphones on several actors,
including Yasser the quiet-spirited lion) and a laptop stage right that
projected a huge image of Mohammed Tanim, the Wizard.

If the truth be told, the beginning, in Kansas, was flat, the students' accented
English hard to understand. But the moment Asfara, her braids swinging in the
air, looked her stuffed dog in the eye and said, ''Toto, I've a feeling we're
not in Kansas any more,'' the play soared, the singing and dancing carrying the
show.

At the end there was tons of applause, woo-woos, cameras flashing and two
curtain calls. Dorothy gave Ms. Senechal a bouquet of flowers, and then the cast
and director gathered for juice and cookies.

Ms. Senechal knows this Brooklyn stage is the closest most will get to Broadway.
But that was never the point. Like the great and powerful Oz, she gave them a
peek at what they are made of. The Tin Man hopes to use what he discovered to
become a scientist, the Lion a computer specialist, and Dorothy an engineer.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2006



CORRECTION: The On Education column yesterday, about immigrant students in
Brooklyn who put on a production of ''The Wizard of Oz,'' misidentified a
Hollywood actress when noting that a student who did not want to sing her solo
in rehearsal appeared as if she just wanted to be alone. The comparison was to
Greta Garbo, not Marlene Dietrich.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

4 Are Held in Attack on Mexican Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 363 words


Four Long Island teenagers claiming to be federal agents beat and robbed two
Mexican immigrants fishing off a jetty Monday night after demanding to see their
green cards, the authorities said yesterday. The assault, which the police said
took place on a beach in Rocky Point, was the latest in a series of attacks on
Latino immigrants in Suffolk County.

The four teenagers -- William Foley, 16; Nicholas J. Provenzano, 19; Daniel
Sturgis, 19; and Jesse Lee Ward, 18; all of Rocky Point -- are non-Hispanic
whites. They were charged with robbery and assault as hate crimes, both
felonies, and arraigned yesterday in Suffolk County's First District Court in
Central Islip.

Judge Paul Hensley ordered Mr. Sturgis held in $100,000 cash bail or $200,000
bond and the other three in $25,000 bail or $50,000 bond. All four were being
held at the county jail last night.

James D'Angelo, who represented Mr. Ward and Mr. Foley in court, said all four
pleaded not guilty. ''They are denying involvement in this,'' Mr. D'Angelo said.

Violence toward Latino immigrants has erupted regularly in Suffolk.

Nearly six years ago, two white supremacists tried to kill two Mexican day
laborers in Shirley. In 2003, a Mexican family's house in Farmingville was
firebombed. Last year, a Latino community leader was beaten in Montauk by a man
who shouted ethnic slurs. And in April a teenage neo-Nazi sympathizer chased
three Latino classmates in East Hampton with a machete and a chain saw that he
was revving.

The attack on Monday night occurred as the two Mexican men, whom the police did
not identify, were fishing. ''These men were just sitting on the jetty, minding
their own business,'' said Sgt. Robert Reecks, head of the Police Department's
hate crimes unit.

The teenagers then punched and kicked the two fishermen, stole their money,
yelled racial and ethnic epithets and accused Latinos of stealing jobs from
United States citizens, Sergeant Reecks said.

Witnesses heard the yelling and ran to the victims' aid, and also helped the
police track down and identify the suspects, he said. The victims were not
seriously injured and did not require medical attention, the police said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Four teenagers were charged with assault. From left, William
Foley, 16
Nicholas J. Provenzano, 19
Daniel Sturgis, 19
 and Jesse Lee Ward, 18.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 16, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

City to Consider Job Centers For Day Labor

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


A New York City panel is examining whether the city should subsidize job centers
for day laborers to link this overwhelmingly immigrant work force to prospective
employers and curb wage and workplace abuses.

The job centers would bring a measure of regulation to an informal economy that
involves throngs of immigrants gathering on curbsides and in parking lots each
morning waiting to be hired for work doing light construction, landscaping or
domestic chores.

A handful of other major cities, including Los Angeles, Denver and Phoenix, have
given public funds to day labor centers, but efforts in other locales have drawn
fierce opposition from groups that favor tighter immigration controls.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn,
appointed the commission, which held its first public hearing on Wednesday
evening. Its goal is to evaluate the legal issues surrounding the job centers
and determine whether public financing and oversight would be feasible.

''As the demand for day laborers continues in New York City, we must address the
issues that arise, including day laborers' need for safe and healthy work
conditions,'' Guillermo Linares, the mayor's commissioner of immigrant affairs
and the chairman of the panel, said at the hearing. ''To address these issues,
other jurisdictions have created day-labor job centers with public and private
support. For the past 10 years, cities throughout our nation have found these
centers to be viable long-term solutions.''

Nationally, the centers have provoked debate. Advocates for tougher enforcement
of immigration laws have argued that the job centers encourage illegal
immigration, legitimize the informal economy and depress wages or working
conditions of native-born workers. Last year, Arizona lawmakers voted to ban
public financing of day-labor centers. In New York, Nassau County has two
taxpayer-supported centers, in Glen Cove and Freeport, and Suffolk County has
one, in Huntington Station, though the county executive has fiercely resisted
the idea.

The centers typically coordinate job assignments, inform employees about their
rights under minimum-wage laws and help workers to file complaints and lawsuits.
The National Day Laborer Organizing Network says the centers prevent a ''race to
the bottom'' in wages and working conditions.

The mayor has called for a federal database to allow employers to verify the
immigration status of job applicants and tougher penalties for businesses that
fail to perform the checks or ignore the results. But he has also called for
gradually giving roughly 11 million illegal immigrants permanent status and
ridiculed the idea of deporting them as ''pure fantasy.''

The panel, the Temporary Commission on Day Laborer Job Centers, comprises
representatives of nonprofit and advocacy groups, city officials, including the
police, , and leaders of two privately run day labor centers.

''It's going to be hard for us not to come up with a recommendation that
supports the centers,'' said one commission member, Edwin Melendez, a professor
at Milano the New School for Management and Urban Policy. ''Personally, I think
it's not only a solution that's in the character of New York as an
immigrant-receiving region, but also a part of our history. We've had day
laborers going back 200 years.''

Dr. Melendez, an economist, was a co-author of the first national study of day
laborers. The study, completed in January, estimated that there were 117,600
such workers in the United States, and concluded that they were routinely denied
payment for their work and subjected to workplace hazards, as well as insults
and abuses from employers.

The study found that 21 percent of the laborers found jobs through centers, and
the rest informally. The impetus for the city commission came from three council
members -- Vincent J. Gentile and Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn and Helen Sears of
Queens -- whose constituents had complained that the proliferation of day
laborers was hurting the quality of life. In response to such complaints, Mr.
Gentile helped the Latin American Workers Project, a nonprofit group in
Bushwick, secure space for a small jobs center in Bensonhurst, which opened in
March 2002 and is privately financed.

Stu Loeser, the mayor's chief spokesman, said the panel needed to finish its
work before the mayor could make a decision. ''It's simply too early to predict
what those recommendations may be,'' he said.

At the Wednesday night hearing, the commission heard from seven day laborers --
six men and one woman -- and a former day laborer who is a home-renovation
contractor.

Santiago Torres, 29, said he once had a job cutting grass from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m.
for $70 or $75 a day. One time, he said, an employer berated him for not cutting
the grass at the proper angle and then refused to pay him. Mr. Torres said that
when he tried to write down the employer's license plate, ''he threw me to the
ground and hit me three times.'' He added, ''I went to the police and they said
that since my face wasn't bloody they couldn't help me.''

Javier Gallardo, an official from the Latin American Workers Project, said the
job center in Bensonhurst -- a $300-a-month trailer with no toilet -- was often
cramped. ''We need a dignified space, like a classroom, a meeting room, a
computer lab, a bathroom,'' he said. ''Heat in the winter. Running water.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Day laborers waiting to be hired on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens.
A study has found that such workers are routinely cheated and endangered. (Photo
by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guard Troops Set to Begin Mission on Mexican Border

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: SAN LUIS, Ariz., June 16


The first National Guard troops ordered to the United States-Mexico border as
part of President Bush's plan to improve security have arrived in the four
border states and are expected to begin work by Sunday.

''The Jump Start operation has begun,'' Mario Martinez, a Border Patrol
spokesman in Washington, said Friday, using the Guard's name for the border
mission. ''They are being issued orders and are being processed and trained.''

Most of the troops arrived by Thursday to prepare for their assignments, which
will include monitoring surveillance cameras and sensors, building roads,
putting fencing along the border and other tasks that will free up regular
Border Patrol agents to police the 2,000-mile divide between Mexico and
California, Arizona, Texas and New Mexico.

Mr. Bush ordered the call-up to help the Border Patrol as it seeks to hire some
6,000 new agents, bringing its total to 18,000 by the end of 2008 as part of an
effort to increase security.

Border Patrol and Guard spokesmen said Friday that the first group of Guard
members would number about 800. By August, up to 6,000 Guard members are to be
assigned to the border mission. Next year, that number is to drop to 3,000 as
more Border Patrol agents are hired.

Most of the Guard members will be unarmed unless they are in a hazardous area.
Much of their time will be spent in Border Patrol offices watching monitors and
handling other equipment, while those in the field will alert Border Patrol
agents if they see someone crossing the border illegally.

''The National Guard is not going to be involved in any law enforcement
mission,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''Actual arrests, seizures, custodial -- none of
that stuff. The Border Patrol agents are the ones trained to determine probable
cause, effect arrests, and it is impossible to bring the National Guard up to
speed on that.''

He added, ''You should not look for a motorcade of trucks headed to the border,
because that is not how the deployment is going to work out.''

The Guard, in much smaller numbers, has worked with the Border Patrol for more
than two decades on various assignments, including one in which about 55 Utah
National Guard members have been helping to build a fence here for the past two
weeks. After some deliberation, Guard officials in Washington said Friday that
they would not count those members toward the new mission, though the work they
are doing is similar to what some of the new arrivals will do.

Whether part of the mission or not, the Utah Guard soldiers pressed on this week
in the 100-plus-degree heat, talking of satisfaction in helping the Border
Patrol but wondering how much the fence might help.

''I think it's just going to slow them down,'' Sgt. Colby Warner of Santequin,
Utah, said Thursday of illegal immigrants. ''But I don't think it's going to
stop them.''

Opponents of the plan have called it a political move by Mr. Bush that will do
little but help appease voters urging a harder line on immigration law
enforcement.

The Rev. Robin Hoover of Human Borders, a migrant advocacy group in Tucson,
called the deployment a ''stunning lack of imagination'' in confronting illegal
immigration. He said sending more personnel to the border had not proved
effective, pointing out that border arrests peaked at 1.6 million in 2000, when
the Border Patrol was much smaller. Last year, it made 1.2 million arrests.

''Putting the National Guard on the border is like betting on a tape-delayed
football game and expecting a different result,'' Mr. Hoover said.

The bulk of the troops, 40 percent, will go to Arizona, which became the busiest
crossing point after Border Patrol clampdowns on urban areas pushed smugglers
into the vast, forbidding desert. The remaining three states will get 20 percent
each.

California does not expect to have Guard troops at Border Patrol stations until
mid-July, though commanders and administrative staff have begun arriving to work
out logistics, housing and other issues, said Maj. Jon Seipmann, a spokesman for
the California National Guard.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fencing along the United States-Mexico border was under
construction last week in San Luis, Ariz. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Fence With More Beauty, Fewer Barbs

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 642 words


HAVING trouble with the neighbors? Put up a fence. If things go well, you hang
out at the fence and talk.

That's not generally the thinking for fences between nations; such barriers
can't easily mask their harsh purpose. Now a fence is proposed for the
2,000-mile border between the United States and Mexico in an effort to improve
national security and stem illegal immigration. The Senate wants 370 miles of
it; the House, 698. And President Bush has invited military contractors to
devise a ''virtual'' fence that would seal the existing stopgap fencing with
high-technology tools like motion sensors, drones and satellites.

But maybe some form of backyard diplomacy is in order -- Mexico is no enemy --
and there are obvious suspects for the job: professional designers, whose duty
it is to come up with welcome solutions that defy ugly problems; to create
appeal where there might be none.

As a classic design challenge, The New York Times asked 13 architects and urban
planners to devise the ''fence.'' Several declined because they felt it was
purely a political issue. ''It's a silly thing to design, a conundrum,'' said
Ricardo Scofidio of Diller Scofidio & Renfro in New York. ''You might as well
leave it to security and engineers.''

Four of the five who submitted designs proposed making the boundary a point of
innovative integration, not traditional division -- something that could be
seen, from both sides, as a horizon of opportunity, not as a barrier.

James Corner of Field Operations, a New York urban planning and landscape
architecture firm, suggested that any monumental fortifications have a second
purpose, like a solar energy-collecting strip that would produce what he
described as a ''productive, sustainable enterprise zone'' that attracted
industry from the north and created employment for the south -- in the same
no-man's median that people now cross in search of work. Mr. Corner called his
partnership of 20th-century territorial power and 21st-century green, global
interconnectedness ''a kind of Bush meets Gore hybrid.''

Calvin Tsao, director of the Architectural League of New York and a partner in
Tsao & McKown, also proposed an enterprise zone that, in re-creating the border
as a series of small, developing cities, would become a border of light that
could be seen from space at night. Eric Owen Moss, an architect in Los Angeles,
was more specific with his border as beacon of light. In his design, a
strolling, landscaped arcade of lighted glass columns would invite a social
exchange in the evening, much like the ''paseo,'' popular in Hispanic culture.

''Make something between cultures, which leads to a third,'' Mr. Moss said.
''Celebrate the amalgamation of the two.''

Enrique Norten, an architect born in Mexico who has offices now in Mexico City
and New York with his firm TEN Arquitectos, proposed using the fence budget to
build infrastructures like highways instead.

''The future is about embracing the economy of Mexico,'' he said, of a long-term
plan for the area, not a literal stopgap measure like a fence. Mr. Norten was
speaking from Germany, where he was attending the World Cup. ''Look at Europe,
where this is happening. Spain was a border country 10 years ago. Now it's part
of a greater community.''

Antoine Predock, based in Albuquerque, ''dematerialized'' the fence, he
explained, with a physical wall designed as a mirage. An earthwork of rammed,
tilted dirt would be pushed into place by Mexican day laborers. Crushed rock
scattered before it, and heated from below, would appear to lift it off the
ground, in the way that heat in the desert appears to make objects hover, like
mirages.

''There would be confusion about the materiality of the wall,'' Mr. Predock
explained. ''It would discourage you from crossing, but the message from both
sides would be one of good will.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Glass Forest -- In Eric Owen Moss's design, imagined in the
two renderings above, transparent columns rise to light the night sky. Below
ground, the columns light tunnels lined with cultural exhibits and art
suggestive of the Mexican muralist David Alfaro Siqueiros. A meeting of two
cultures creates a third, Mr. Moss says. (Photo by Eric Owen Moss Architects)
The Mirage -- The intent of Antoine Predock's concept is more functional than
the ethereal sketch suggests. Though it is seen through a shimmery desertscape
created by a heating system, there is a hard-packed dirt wall rising from the
ground. Mr. Predock, recipient of the American Institute of Architects' Gold
Medal for 2006, sees the wall as being built by Mexican day laborers. (Photo by
Karole Mazeika/Antoine Predock Architect)
The Expressway -- Enrique Norten looks over the ''fence'' and into the future,
when barriers are gone or forgotten, and the unobstructed border becomes a
series of vital arteries that allow lifeblood to pour into Mexico. (Photo by Zoe
Small, Sol Camacho/TEN Arquitectos)
The Cities of Light -- Calvin Tsao's design suggests vibrant little border
cities. Mr. Tsao, born in Hong Kong, said his model was the fast-growing city
Shenzhen in mainland China, at the border with Hong Kong. He said his concept
incorporated the idea that ''as development along the border matures, the need
to cross the border diminishes.'' (Photo by Tsao & McKown Architects)
 The Energy Source -- The sunny border has ''a massive green energy-producing
potential,'' says James Corner, who sees a ''sustainable enterprise zone'' with
cargo terminals, automated assembly plants and the like. Mr. Corner, chairman of
the University of Pennsylvania School of Design, is in charge of turning New
York's Fresh Kills landfill into a park. (Photo by James Corner/Field
Operations)Drawing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Math: It's a Long Story

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1013 words


MUCH of today's debate about immigration revolves around the same old questions:
How much do immigrants contribute to production? Do they take jobs away from
people born in the United States? And what kinds of social services do they use?
Yet every immigrant represents much more than just one worker or one potential
citizen. To understand fully how immigration will shape the economy, you can't
just look at one generation -- you have to look into the future.

Sociologists and economists are just beginning to study the performance of
second- and third-generation members of immigrant families. Because of the
variety of experiences of people from different countries and cultures, it's not
easy to generalize. But recent research has already uncovered some pertinent
facts.

Education is a good place to start, because it's strongly correlated with future
earnings. Children of immigrants complete more years of education than their
native-born counterparts of similar socioeconomic backgrounds. ''You can expect
a child of immigrants whose parents have 10 years of education to do a lot
better than a child of natives whose parents have 10 years of education,'' said
David Card, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley.
Being a child of immigrants, he said, ''sort of boosts your drive.''

As a whole, though, the second generation also tends to move toward the American
average, Professor Card said. Some graduate from high school even though their
parents didn't, but some whose parents have doctorates will earn only bachelor's
degrees.

Still, it can take several generations for poor immigrant families to catch up
to American norms. ''For the largest immigrant group -- that is Mexicans and
Mexican-Americans -- the picture is progress, but still lagging behind other
Americans,'' said Hans P. Johnson, a research fellow at the Public Policy
Institute of California. ''They're doing much better than their parents,
graduating from high school, but they still have very low graduation rates from
college.''

But despite the lag in education, Mr. Johnson said, Mexican immigrants and their
families don't have much trouble finding jobs. ''One of the paradoxes of Mexican
immigration is that you have these workers with low skills but incredibly high
employment rates,'' he said. ''The second generation isn't able to maintain
employment levels that are quite so high, but they're basically in the same
ballpark.''

Second generations of immigrant families are managing to climb the skills
ladder, too. A recent survey by the Census Bureau reveals that 40 percent of the
female workers and 37 percent of the male workers in the second generation took
professional or management positions, up from 30 and 24 percent, respectively,
in the first generation. The survey, taken in 2004, included many adults whose
parents came to the United States decades ago, noted William H. Frey, a visiting
fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington who compiled data from the
survey. With more recent immigrants, he said, it's possible that lower education
rates may eventually lead to worse outcomes.

Other factors could also make success more difficult for today's children of
immigrants, compared with those of the past.

One is increased competition. The children of Italians and Poles who came to the
United States around the turn of the 20th century didn't face much of it,
because the government imposed quotas on immigration after their parents
arrived, said Roger Waldinger, a professor of sociology at the University of
California, Los Angeles. By contrast, the children of recent arrivals face
competition from successive waves of immigrants from numerous regions.

Inequality of income and wealth is another factor that could affect
opportunities. ''The second generation of Italians and Poles came of age in an
era of historically low inequality,'' Professor Waldinger said. ''The second
generation of Mexican immigrants is coming of age in an era of historically high
inequality, and that has to work to the disadvantage of those with low levels of
schooling.''

But there are also forces working in the opposite direction. For one thing, the
children of today's immigrants will have much better access to education and the
labor market than those of a century ago. ''It almost certainly will be the case
that tomorrow's third generation will have better outcomes than today's third
generation,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''The conditions today are better in terms of
educational opportunities.''

Adding to that, members of several immigrant groups have often risen quickly to
-- or even started at -- the top of the wage scale. Professor Waldinger said
that ''the median for Indian immigrants is 16 years of schooling'' and that, on
balance, ''the Indians, the Koreans, the Chinese -- they're already
successful.'' One reason, he added, is that society is ''much more open to
outsiders'' in top jobs and at elite colleges than it ever was before.

EVEN if successive generations of immigrants manage to become as economically
successful as native-born Americans, a big question will remain: How many people
do we really want in the United States? From the standpoint of government fiscal
policy, Professor Card said, you could argue that the only immigrants you'd want
in the United States were those ''whose children are going to get Ph.D.'s'' and
would therefore be economically productive.

Some people might argue that a larger population raises housing prices and
causes more pollution, he said. But there can be advantages to size, too. ''If
you have population growth, you can finance intergenerational transfer systems''
like Social Security and Medicare, he said. And lest we forget, he said, ''big
countries have more power.''

Mr. Frey agreed that waves of immigration could help to solidify a country's
position in the world. In that respect, he said, Europe and Japan have a
problem. ''They have a very aging society because they don't like immigrants,''
he said. ''They're going to end up on the back burner of the global economy.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Next Generation''Jobs held by first- and second-generation
male immigrants in 2004Farming, fishing and forestryFIRST GENERATION: 2.1%SECOND
GENERATION: 0.4%Sales and officeFIRST GENERATION: 13.5SECOND GENERATION:
22.0ServiceFIRST GENERATION: 18.9SECOND GENERATION: 12.9Production,
transportation and material movingFIRST GENERATION: 20.4SECOND GENERATION:
14.9Construction, mining and maintenanceFIRST GENERATION: 20.9SECOND GENERATION:
13.0Management, professional and relatedFIRST GENERATION: 24.1SECOND GENERATION:
36.8(Source by William H. Frey and U.S. Census analysis of 2004 Current
Population Survey)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Road Show

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 511 words


This was supposed to be the time that the House and Senate got serious about
immigration -- by working out the differences between their drastically opposing
bills and sending a solution to President Bush, who has made repairing the
immigration system one of his cornerstone promises to Americans. It was going to
be a hard job, involving lots of focused attention and a willingness to
compromise. A hard job, but that's what we pay these people for.

But wait. Hold on. House Republican leaders have decided they don't want to
negotiate just yet. They say they want to take a closer look at the Senate bill,
this strange thing called ''bipartisan legislation'' that Republicans and
Democrats alike somehow got behind, that the president supports and that views
immigration in three dimensions, not one. It seeks to get a handle on the
problem by tightening security, regulating the future flow of immigrants and
treating the existing population of illegal immigrants with practicality and
decency.

The House has a much more simple-minded solution: walling immigrants out and
calling the rest felons. Like the baffled hominids of ''2001: A Space Odyssey,''
they are poking at the Senate's big-picture approach with a leg bone.

Their plan is to travel the country this summer holding public hearings on the
Senate bill. That will probably just kill immigration reform for the year, since
Congress won't get around to negotiations until just before the November
elections, when serious, difficult discussions are generally taboo. ''We are
going to listen to the American people,'' the House speaker, Dennis Hastert,
said.

But what the Republicans really want to do is take the Senate bill on a perp
walk through the red states, relishing the catcalls denouncing it as ''amnesty''
and using the hearings to milk whatever anti-immigrant resentment they can find
or drum up for the benefit of their candidates. Their motives couldn't be
clearer. A senior member of the Republican leadership, Representative Deborah
Pryce of Ohio, called the Senate legislation the ''Kennedy bill,'' a nasty bit
of partisan mislabeling that would surprise Arlen Specter and the other
Republican co-sponsors, including Mel Martinez and John McCain.

If the Republicans really wanted to listen, they would listen to a recent poll
that found that Americans are coming around to President Bush's immigration
views. Or to the more than 500 economists who signed an open letter to Mr. Bush
arguing that immigration is a net plus for the nation's economy.

Given the topics that have preoccupied Congress lately, one wonders why the
Republicans don't simply propose a catchall bill aimed at illegal gay liberal
Mexican flag burners and be done with it. The immigration debate has been
obscured for too long by a fog of distortion and fear, and the House Republicans
are gambling that the public won't see through it. The American people deserve
better. They deserve action on a good immigration bill, and if this do-nothing
Congress won't give it to them, they should elect a Congress that will.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 24, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

School for Border Patrol Scurries to Turn Out More Agents

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 946 words

DATELINE: ARTESIA, N.M., June 22


Cadets must double up in dorms, and prefabricated temporary classrooms have
sprouted almost everywhere. Scores of agents have been withdrawn from policing
the border to serve as instructors. And next year, twice as many trainees as
this year are expected to troop through the cramped quarters.

All in all, the Border Patrol Academy here in the desert of southeastern New
Mexico is bursting at the seams and bustling with activity as the agency strives
to train enough cadets to fulfill President Bush's plan adding 6,000 agents by
the end of 2008 as part of his border security program.

Charles C. Whitmire, the acting chief of the academy, said Thursday at the
conclusion of a two-day tour for the news media that the president's goal would
be met.

''The answer is absolutely,'' he said.

The carefully choreographed media tour was intended in part to raise the
agency's public profile and calm fears that the academy might not be up to the
mammoth training task. It produced made-for-television images of prospective
agents going through the paces, including shooting weapons, making vehicle
stops, learning Spanish -- a requirement for all agents -- and studying
immigration law.

Several of the cadets, a broad range of former members of the military and law
enforcement agencies, recent college and high school graduates, and even a few
former missionaries, said the physical training was the most difficult. The
recruits hit the deck for endless push-ups, situps and other exercises, along
with frequent runs in the heat of the desert, to get them in shape for border
assignments in often hostile, dangerous terrain where an agent frequently
patrols alone. On average, only 1 in 30 applicants ends up an agent.

''On the first day I was wondering, 'What did I get myself into?' '' said Sarah
Felix, 21, of Los Angeles, one of 10 recruits whom officials picked to speak
with reporters. ''The physical training was not what I expected.''

But she has persevered, she said, out of a determination to be a federal agent,
an idea planted by a recruiter who stopped by at her job as an airport security
screener.

''I saw pictures of them running around the desert,'' Ms. Felix said, ''and I
thought I'd like to give that a try.''

Much of what the prospective agents do is typical of police and federal law
enforcement training: firearms practice, and mastery of arrest and pursuit
techniques. But there are some distinct differences, among them hours of
instruction in Spanish and immigration law, and practice in navigating
four-wheel-drive vehicles over rough terrain.

Recruits take 750 hours of training over 19 weeks -- the longest of any law
enforcement agency, Border Patrol officials said -- with Spanish classes
accounting for the biggest portion, 221 hours. All agents must speak the
language well enough to question suspects and issue commands during arrests.

''It's a challenge for them,'' said Greg Burwell, a Spanish-language instructor.
''Some of them just can't pick it up.''

One cadet, Todd Huffaker, 27, of Grand Junction, Colo., said he wanted to marry
his knowledge of Spanish gleaned as a Mormon missionary in Mexico with an
interest in law enforcement inspired by relatives in the field, including a
brother-in-law who is a Border Patrol agent.

''I agree with the mission,'' Mr. Huffaker said, ''first and foremost preventing
terror and also antismuggling operations.''

The recruitment of agents and their retention have long been challenges for the
agency, which began the decade with little more than 4,000 of them and would
have 18,000 by the end of 2008 under the president's plan. The agency recently
raised the maximum age of cadets to 40 from 37 and has stepped up recruiting
with a television commercial draped in patriotic themes and broadcast in large
cities in the North and the Midwest, the idea being to widen the pool of
applicants beyond the Southwest, a customary stronghold.

The agency has also been having particular trouble recruiting blacks and Asians,
with whites accounting for 35 percent of recent hires and Latinos 62 percent.
Blacks and Asians each account for less than 1 percent.

The inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security, the Border
Patrol's parent, is soon expected to begin an audit of the agency's hiring and
training practices, in light of misgivings in Congress and elsewhere over its
ability to train enough agents in so short a period.

The agents' union, the National Border Patrol Council, has expressed concern
that to meet demands, recruits may be rushed through the academy too quickly. It
has suggested that the agency look for other sites to supplement the academy,
part of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center here, which also trains
federal air marshals, Indian reservation police officers and commercial pilots
authorized to carry firearms in cockpits.

''Congress needs to take a look beyond Artesia,'' said the union's president, T.
J. Bonner, a Border Patrol agent in San Diego.

Mr. Whitmire, the academy's acting chief, estimated that perhaps twice as many
cadets as the current level of 570 at any given time would come through next
year. But he said he would not know with certainty until Mr. Bush and Congress
reached agreement on next year's budget.

At least for now, the loss of agents in the field to have them work at the
academy has worsened a shortage of senior agents in some areas, Mr. Whitmire
said.

''Clearly any person that is here is one less person in the field taking care of
business,'' he said, though he added that the deployment of National Guard
troops to the border -- the total by August is expected to rise to 6,000 --
would help ease the strain.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In addition to the firearms practice typical of law enforcement
training, every recruit at the Border Patrol Academy is required to learn
Spanish.
 A four-wheel-drive vehicle heads for rugged off-road terrain where recruits
sharpen their skills in driving and pursuit of illegal border crossers.
(Photographs by Rick Scibelli Jr. for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 24, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Accused of Setting Greenpoint Fire Is Denied Bail

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 648 words


A homeless Polish immigrant accused of burning down the Greenpoint Terminal
Market was denied bail yesterday after a judge failed to find problems with a
video recording of his statement to the police.

The immigrant, Leszek Kuczera, 59, was ordered to jail until July 6, when he is
scheduled for arraignment in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn.

Mr. Kuczera is charged with arson, burglary, larceny, criminal mischief and
reckless endangerment in connection with a fire that began May 2 and burned for
five days, destroying at least 10 historic buildings in the most spectacular
inferno in Brooklyn in more than a decade. The police have suggested that he
accidentally set the fire in a misguided and amateurish attempt to increase the
value of some scrap metal.

Court records show that the police took three statements from Mr. Kuczera
overnight at a precinct station house in Alphabet City. The first, at 11 p.m.
June 6, was oral; the second, at 3:35 a.m. June 7, was written; and the last, at
4:15 a.m. June 7, was videotaped.

In the court documents, the police summarized the statements identically: Mr.
Kuczera told investigators that he and three other men had used diesel fuel and
gasoline to burn the insulation from stolen copper wire, hoping to sell the bare
wire for scrap.

At a criminal court arraignment on June 8, Judge Ruth Smith ordered Mr. Kuczera
remanded until his arraignment in Supreme Court, where felony cases are handled.

A week after Judge Smith gave her order, an alibi witness came forward upstate.
The witness, a mason named Zbigniew Sarna, told reporters that Mr. Kuczera had
been in Pond Eddy at the time of the fire, working on a campground. After Mr.
Sarna's account appeared in newspapers, Mr. Kuczera gave a jailhouse interview
denying that he had confessed to the arson.

In the interview, Mr. Kuczera, whom friends and family members have described as
an enthusiastic vodka drinker, said through a translator that he had been hung
over at the time of his arrest and that the police had misunderstood his
description of an earlier, smaller fire as a confession to setting the May 2
fire.

Based in part on the new alibi evidence, a lawyer for Mr. Kuczera filed a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus in State Supreme Court, contending that
Judge Smith's decision to remand Mr. Kuczera amounted to excessive bail as
defined by the Eighth Amendment. Assigned to rule on the petition, Justice
Albert Tomei ordered prosecutors to provide a copy of the videotaped statement.

In the courtroom yesterday, a video still frame projected on the wall showed Mr.
Kuczera dressed in a blue button-down shirt and tennis shoes, leaning his elbows
on a table across from two other people.

Justice Tomei ordered the courtroom cleared, sending a prosecutor into the
hallway to wait with a defense lawyer while he screened the recording. Forty
minutes later, the judge reopened the courtroom. Mr. Kuczera was led in,
handcuffed and dressed in bright orange sneakers and a familiar-looking blue
button-down shirt. His face looked weathered and stubbled. The court provided a
translator, but the news was not favorable to Mr. Kuczera. Justice Tomei said
his review of the videotape had not convinced him to reverse Judge Smith's bail
decision.

''The court did not find it to be particularly helpful in light of the fact that
the defendant read a statement he had made earlier,'' Justice Tomei said. He
added that the order to remand Mr. Kuczera seemed sound because he is homeless,
has family in Poland, has not produced a green card and has failed to appear for
court dates in the past.

Mr. Kuczera's lawyer, Samuel A. Getz, asked to see the video recording, which he
said was 13 minutes long, and he argued that Mr. Kuczera had been under duress
in police custody for 24 hours before adopting the statement. Justice Tomei said
those issues should be argued at trial.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gauging Immigration

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 228 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Immigration Math: It's a Long Story'' (Economic View, June 18), which noted
the importance of examining the economic contributions of second and third
generations of immigrant families:

In looking at the pros and cons of immigration-driven population growth, the
column quoted one economics professor as saying that ''big countries have more
power.''

However, increasing the population of the United States, already the most
powerful country on earth, will not improve the trade deficit, assure greater
access to energy resources or help American forces prevail in Iraq or elsewhere.
For these issues of the nation's welfare, it is the quality of policy that is
critical, not the additional quantity of population.

David Osterman
Boulder, Colo., June 20

To the Editor:

''Immigration Math: It's a Long Story'' (Economic View, June 18) quoted one
professor as saying that society is now ''much more open to outsiders'' in
important jobs and elite universities.

But what about the restrictions placed on some visa applicants over the last
four and a half years? The many foreign professionals -- physicians, for example
-- who have been denied visas certainly have grounds to dispute that assertion.

The merit and justice of these policies are debatable. That the policies are
literally unproductive is certain.

John J. Murphy, M.D.
Minneapolis, June 20

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 28, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Somali-Born Politician Allowed to Stay a Dutch Citizen

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: PARIS, June 27


Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali-born politician known for her criticism of Islam, will
be able to keep her Dutch citizenship, even though she admitted lying in her
asylum application, the Dutch government said Tuesday.

Ms. Hirsi Ali, who rose to become a high-profile member of Parliament, said she
would still leave her adoptive country anyway in September, as planned, to take
up a research fellowship in Washington.

A letter from the immigration minister to the Dutch Parliament on Tuesday said
Ms. Hirsi Ali would retain her nationality, which the minister had threatened to
revoke. It ended an awkward six-week period in which Ms. Hirsi Ali felt forced
to resign her parliamentary seat abruptly and, amid a national and international
outcry, the Dutch prime minister himself demanded a solution to save the country
further embarrassment.

The prime minister, Jan Peter Balkenende, also ordered that her security be
stepped up. Ms. Hirsi Ali, an outspoken critic of Islam and its treatment of
women, has been living under the protection of bodyguards since 2002, when she
began receiving threats from Islamic militants.

The uproar over her legal status began in May when a Dutch television company
broadcast a program retracing her steps from her family's exile from Somalia to
Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia and Kenya.

She says she was trying to escape a marriage her father had arranged for her.

On her application for asylum, she said she was entering the Netherlands from
war-torn Somalia, not from Kenya, where her family was living, because she was
afraid of being sent back to her relatives.

What made her well-published story different this time was that the television
program was presented in the midst of Dutch election politics, in which the
immigration minister, Rita Verdonk, was making a bid for the leadership of her
party, to which Ms. Hirsi Ali also belonged.

Part of Ms. Verdonk's campaign platform was her toughness in dealing with
illegal immigration. And in the case of Ms. Hirsi Ali, she said, she had to
apply the law. Since then she has lost her leadership bid, with many of her
colleagues saying publicly that she blundered in the case.

''I am very happy and also proud to have my passport back,'' said Ms. Hirsi Ali,
who was traveling in the United States. ''I need to get on with my life.''
Almost a year ago, Ms. Hirsi Ali told the party's leadership that she had
planned to leave Parliament and would not run for office again.

In an earlier interview, she said that although the Dutch had offered her many
opportunities, she hoped to live a more anonymous life in the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Rockies: Colorado: Special Session On Immigration

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 98 words


Gov. Bill Owens called the legislature into special session for next week to
talk about immigration. Earlier this month, the State Supreme Court struck down
a proposed ballot initiative that would have barred illegal immigrants from
receiving non-emergency state and local services, and on Monday the court
declined to reconsider. Mr. Owens, a Republican, said the Democratic-controlled
legislature should either fashion a new referendum similar to the one
invalidated by the court and send it on to the voters, or pass legislation that
would address the same issues.    KIRK JOHNSON (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 7, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Border Dispute That Focuses on Water, Not Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1269 words

DATELINE: CALEXICO, Calif.


For more than 100 years, as their names imply, Calexico and its much larger
sister city, Mexicali, south of the border, have embraced each other with a
bonhomie born of mutual need and satisfaction in the infernal desert.

The pedestrian gate into Mexico clangs ceaselessly as Mexicans lug back bulging
bags from Wal-Mart and 99 Cent Stores in Calexico. The line into the United
States slogs along, steady but slower, through an air-conditioned foyer as men
and women trudge off to work and, during the school year, children wear the
universal face that greets the coming day.

Now, the ties that bind Calexico and Mexicali are being tested as a 20-year
dispute over the rights to water leaking into Mexico from a canal on the
American side is reaching a peak. Though the raging debate over illegal
immigration in the United States has not upset border relations here, some say
the fight over water could affect the number of Mexicans who try to cross here
illegally.

To slake the ever-growing thirst of San Diego, 100 miles to the west, the United
States has a plan to replace a 23-mile segment of the earthen All-American
Canal, which the federal government owns and the Colorado River feeds, with a
concrete-lined parallel trough.

The $225 million project would send more water to San Diego, by cutting off
billions of leaked gallons -- enough for 112,000 households a year -- that have
helped irrigate Mexican farms since the 1940's.

But Mexican farmers and their advocates say the lined canal would effectively
turn off the spigot for 25,000 people, including 400 farmers whose wells rely on
the seepage that has helped turn the powdery fields east of Mexicali, an
industrial city, into one of the biggest Mexican producers of onions, alfalfa,
asparagus, squash and other crops.

The farmers and their families ask what will they do if they cannot till the
fields and answer that they will cross the border, illegally if they have to, in
droves.

''They can't build a fence high enough to stop us,'' said Geronimo Hernandez, a
Mexicali farmer whose family has worked the fields for generations.

Juan Ignacio Guajardo, a lawyer in Mexicali who is helping a civic group there
and two environmental groups in Southern California fight the canal, said, ''You
can't have it both ways,'' adding, ''You can't take our water away and then say,
'We don't want immigration, either.' ''

The dispute over the project was among the topics President Bush and President
Vicente Fox of Mexico discussed in an April meeting in Mexico.

[A federal judge ruled against environmental groups in the United States and a
Mexicali civic association in a lawsuit against the project, dismissing some
claims on June 26 on technicalities and deciding on July 3 that many of the
predicted effects on Mexico were ''highly speculative'' and that the federal
environmental law at issue did not apply beyond the border. The groups said they
were preparing an appeal. In addition, a separate lawsuit is pending in state
court.]

On the American side, managers of the Imperial Irrigation District, which
controls the canal and a vast water system that has turned swaths of the
California desert in the Imperial and Coachella Valleys into some of the most
fertile farmland anywhere, defend the plan.

They say the 1944 international treaty on the distribution of water from the
Colorado River, which feeds the canal, does not prohibit the concrete lining.
New agreements among the states and water utilities along the Colorado have
imposed limits on how much water can be tapped from the river, making every drop
count that much more.

''There is more need than water available,'' said the general manager of the
irrigation district, Charles Hosken. ''When you find a point to access water, I
think it is our duty to go after it.''

Mr. Hosken acknowledged that the project, which has been mired in legal
challenges and planning since the 1980's, ''will have impact'' on Mexico, but
said, ''The fact is, the water belongs to the United States, and we have never
been compensated for it.''

He said he was particularly angry at opponents of the project who invoke the
immigration debate, which while discussed here, has not set off the fiery
passions found elsewhere.

The notion that cutting off the leakage would drive up illegal immigration, he
said, was ''quite a stretch'' and a ''scare tactic'' intended to take advantage
of the charged atmosphere surrounding the debate.

But opponents said the project was moving forward without enough consideration
of its potential effects.

The federal lawsuit contended that a study in 1994 of the project's
environmental consequences was outdated and should be revised to take into
account changes of the last 12 years.

The groups argued in the suit that the original study did not fully take into
account a projected increase in air pollution if the fields were returned to
dust or the deterioration of Mexican wetlands if the leaking water were to dry
up and remove the habitat of endangered birds and lizards.

In the state lawsuit, filed in April, another environmental group contends that
the concrete lining and the shape of the new canal would produce swifter
currents that would endanger people and animals. That group says it plans to
seek a temporary restraining order against the project.

California has agreed to pay for 60 percent of the project, with the San Diego
County Water Authority financing the rest. Malissa Hathaway McKeith, president
of Citizens United for Resources and the Environment, a group in the federal
lawsuit, said Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger could halt the project by withholding
the state money until the environmental effects were studied more closely.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Schwarzenegger, Margita Thompson, said such a move was far
from likely because the governor thought that the water recovered from the
lining would lessen the need to tap the Colorado.

''This will help provide long-term stability in water management,'' Ms. Thompson
said.

The dispute has touched a nerve in Calexico, which, with a population of 33,000,
mostly Spanish speakers of Mexican descent, functions as a virtual suburb of
Mexicali, which has nearly one million residents.

The mayor and Council of Calexico have sided with the Mexicali farmers, taking
pains to make clear that Mexicans are welcome here in part because they fear
that economic distress in the region could damage their economy, which is buoyed
by Mexican wallets.

''If we didn't have Mexico,'' said Mayor Alex Perrone, who like many other city
residents was born in Mexicali and reared in Calexico, ''we could not survive.''

So intertwined are the towns that Calexico fire trucks race across the border
for emergencies. Mexicali children fill private schools in Calexico. Special
border-crossing cards known as laser visas make it easy for many Mexicans to go
back and forth, though some sneak in, too, hiding in cars or scaling the
steel-plate fence.

Ire against the new canal has grown in Mexicali, where bumper stickers opposing
it are turning up.

''How can they take away the farmers' water after all these years?'' asked Juan
Rodolfo Rodriguez, a Mexicali shopkeeper who was buying a caffe latte at the
Starbucks shop here. ''Americans always want more, but we are used to this.''

Farmers like the Hernandez family fear they would not have the resources to find
alternate water sources, like digging deeper wells to tap an underground
aquifer.

''It would be costly to maintain,'' said Luis Hernandez, Geronimo Hernandez's
brother. ''And who knows if it would give us the same amount of water?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luis Hernandez checking water flow on his farm near Mexicali,
Mexico. He worries about the effects of losing water from the All-American
Canal.
The debate over replacing a part of the All-American Canal with a concrete-lined
trough has strained the longstanding ties between Mexicali and Calexico, Calif.
Calexico functions almost like a Mexicali suburb.
 Farmers near Mexicali rely on seepage canals to deliver water from the
All-American Canal to their onions, alfalfa, asparagus and squash. (Photographs
by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times)Map of the California/Mexico border,
highlighting Calexico and Mexicali.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 9, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Equation

BYLINE: By Roger Lowenstein.

Roger Lowenstein is a contributing writer. He has written cover articles for the
magazine about Social Security and pensions.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 8073 words


The day I met George Borjas,cloistered in his office at the John F. Kennedy
School of Government at Harvard while graduate students from Russia, India,
China and maybe Mexico mingled in the school cafe, sipping coffee and chattering
away in all their tongues, the United States Senate was hotly debating what to
do about the country's immigration policy. Borjas professed to be unfazed by the
goings-on in Washington. A soft-spoken man, he stressed repeatedly that his
concern was not to make policy but to derive the truth. To Borjas, a Cuban
immigrant and the pre-eminent scholar in his field, the truth is pretty obvious:
immigrants hurt the economic prospects of the Americans they compete with. And
now that the biggest contingent of immigrants are poorly educated Mexicans, they
hurt poorer Americans, especially African-Americans, the most.

Borjas has been making this case -- which is based on the familiar concept of
supply and demand -- for more than a decade. But the more elegantly he has made
it, it seems, the less his colleagues concur. ''I think I have proved it,'' he
eventually told me, admitting his frustration. ''What I don't understand is why
people don't agree with me.''

It turns out that Borjas's seemingly self-evident premise -- that more job
seekers from abroad mean fewer opportunities, or lower wages, for native workers
-- is one of the most controversial ideas in labor economics. It lies at the
heart of a national debate, which has been encapsulated (if not articulated) by
two very different immigration bills: one, passed by the House of
Representatives, which would toughen laws against undocumented workers and
probably force many of them to leave the country; and one in the Senate, a
measure that would let most of them stay.

You can find economists to substantiate the position of either chamber, but the
consensus of most is that, on balance, immigration is good for the country.
Immigrants provide scarce labor, which lowers prices in much the same way global
trade does. And overall, the newcomers modestly raise Americans' per capita
income. But the impact is unevenly distributed; people with means pay less for
taxi rides and household help while the less-affluent command lower wages and
probably pay more for rent.

The debate among economists is whether low-income workers are hurt a lot or just
a little -- and over what the answer implies for U.S. policy. If you believe
Borjas, the answer is troubling. A policy designed with only Americans' economic
well-being in mind would admit far fewer Mexicans, who now account for about 3
in 10 immigrants. Borjas, who emigrated from Cuba in 1962, when he was 12 (and
not long after soldiers burst into his family's home and ordered them at
gunpoint to stand against a wall), has asserted that the issue, indeed, is
''Whom should the United States let in?''

Such a bald approach carries an overtone of the ethnic selectivity that was a
staple of the immigration debates a century ago. It makes many of Borjas's
colleagues uncomfortable, and it is one reason that the debate is so charged.
Another reason is that many of the scholars who disagree with Borjas also hail
from someplace else -- like gardeners and seamstresses, a surprising number of
Ph.D. economists in the U.S. are foreign-born.

Easily the most influential of Borjas's critics is David Card, a Canadian who
teaches at Berkeley. He has said repeatedly that, from an economic standpoint,
immigration is no big deal and that a lot of the opposition to it is most likely
social or cultural. ''If Mexicans were taller and whiter, it would probably be a
lot easier to deal with,'' he says pointedly.

Economists in Card's camp tend to frame the issue as a puzzle -- a great
economic mystery because of its very success. The puzzle is this: how is the
U.S. able to absorb its immigrants so easily?

After all, 21 million immigrants, about 15 percent of the labor force, hold jobs
in the U.S., but the country has nothing close to that many unemployed. (The
actual number is only seven million.) So the majority of immigrants can't
literally have ''taken'' jobs; they must be doing jobs that wouldn't have
existed had the immigrants not been here.

The economists who agree with Card also make an intuitive point, inevitably
colored by their own experience. To the Israeli-born economist whose father
lived through the Holocaust or the Italian who marvels at America's ability to
integrate workers from around the world, America's diversity -- its knack for
synthesizing newly arrived parts into a more vibrant whole -- is a secret of its
strength. To which Borjas, who sees a different synthesis at work, replies that,
unlike his colleagues, the people arriving from Oaxaca, Mexico, are unlikely to
ascend to a university faculty. Most of them did not finish high school. ''The
trouble with the stories that American journalists write about immigration,'' he
told me, ''is they all start with a story about a poor mother whose son grows up
to become.. . .'' and his voice trailed off as if to suggest that whatever the
particular story -- that of a C.E.O., a ballplayer or even a story like his own
-- it would not prove anything about immigration. What economists aim for is to
get beneath the anecdotes. Is immigration still the engine of prosperity that
the history textbooks describe? Or is it a boon to business that is destroying
the livelihoods of the poorest workers -- people already disadvantaged by such
postmodern trends as globalization, the decline of unions and the computer?

$( The Lopsided-Skill-Mix Problem $)

This spring, while militias on the prowl for illegal immigrants were converging
on the Arizona border and, on the other side of the political fence, immigrant
protesters were taking to the streets, I sampled the academic literature and
spent some time with Borjas and Card and various of their colleagues. I did not
expect concurrence, but I hoped to isolate what we know about the economic
effects of immigration from what is mere conjecture. The first gleaning from the
Ivory Tower came as a surprise. All things being equal, more foreigners and
indeed more people of any stripe do not mean either lower wages or higher
unemployment. If they did, every time a baby was born, every time a newly minted
graduate entered the work force, it would be bad news for the labor market. But
it isn't. Those babies eat baby food; those graduates drive automobiles.

As Card likes to say, ''The demand curve also shifts out.'' It's jargon, but
it's profound. New workers add to the supply of labor, but since they consume
products and services, they add to the demand for it as well. ''Just because Los
Angeles is bigger than Bakersfield doesn't mean L.A. has more unemployed than
Bakersfield,'' Card observes.

In theory, if you added 10 percent to the population -- or even doubled it --
nothing about the labor market would change. Of course, it would take a little
while for the economy to adjust. People would have to invest money and start
some new businesses to hire all those newcomers. The point is, they would do it.
Somebody would realize that the immigrants needed to eat and would open a
restaurant; someone else would think to build them housing. Pretty soon there
would be new jobs available in kitchens and on construction sites. And that has
been going on since the first boat docked at Ellis Island.

But there's a catch. Individual native workers are less likely to be affected if
the immigrants resemble the society they are joining -- not physically but in
the same mix of skills and educational backgrounds. For instance, if every
immigrant were a doctor, the theory is, it would be bad for doctors already
here. Or as Borjas asked pointedly of me, what if the U.S. created a special
visa just for magazine writers? All those foreign-born writers would eat more
meals, sure, but (once they mastered English, anyway), they would be supplying
only one type of service -- my type. Bye-bye fancy assignments.

During the previous immigrant wave, roughly from 1880 to 1921 (it ended when the
U.S. established restrictive quotas based on country of origin), the immigrants
looked pretty much like the America into which they were assimilating. At the
beginning of the 20th century, 9 of 10 American adults did not have high-school
diplomas, nor did the vast majority of immigrants. Those Poles and Greeks and
Italians made the country more populous, but they did not much change the makeup
of the labor market.

This time it's different. The proportion of foreign-born, at 12 percent, remains
below the peak of 15 percent recorded in 1890. But compared with the work force
of today, however, the skill mix of immigrants is lopsided. About the same
proportion have college degrees (though a higher proportion of immigrants are
post-graduates). But many more -- including most of the those who have furtively
slipped across the Mexican border -- don't have high-school diplomas.

The latest estimate is that the United States has 11.5 million undocumented
foreigners, and it's those immigrants -- the illegal ones -- who have galvanized
Congress. The sponsor of the House legislation, Representative James
Sensenbrenner, a Republican from Wisconsin, says bluntly that illegals are bad
for the U.S. economy. His bill would require employers to verify the status of
their workers from a national database and levy significant penalties on
violators. But H.R. 4437 isn't primarily an economics bill -- it's an expression
of outrage over the porousness of America's borders. Among many other
enforcement measures, the bill forces the U.S. to build hundreds of miles of
fencing on its Southern border.

The Senate bill is irreducibly complex (more than 800 pages), but basically, it
seeks to cure the problem of illegals by bringing them in from the shadows.
Those already here would be able to continue working and get on track toward a
more normalized status. In the future, employers could bring in guest workers --
what Senate draftsmen refer to hopefully as temporary workers -- as long as they
paid them the going wage.

This latter bill, the product of an alliance between John McCain and Edward
Kennedy, isn't really an economics bill, either, at least not the way economists
see it. Its premise is that if you legalize undocumented people and reinforce
the borders, then whatever negative impact immigrants have on the labor market
will go away. The theory is that newly minted green-card holders, no longer
having deportation to fear, will stick up for their rights and for higher wages
too. Interestingly, some big labor unions, like the Service Employees
International Union, are supporters. But economists are skeptical. For one
thing, after the U.S. gave amnesty to the nearly three million undocumented
workers who were in the country in 1986, their wages didn't budge. Second,
economists, as you might expect, say market forces like supply and demand, not
legal status, are what determine wages.

It baffles some economists that Congress pays so little heed to their research,
but then immigration policy has never been based on economics. Economic fears
played a part in the passage of the exclusionary acts against Chinese in the
late 19th and early 20th centuries, and in the 1920's of quotas (aimed in
particular at people from southern and eastern Europe), but they were mostly
fueled by xenophobia. They were supplanted in the Civil Rights era by the
Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, which ended quotas and established a
new priority based on family reunification. That law, also sponsored by Kennedy,
had nothing to do with economics, either. It made the chief criterion for
getting in having a relative who was already here.

If economists ran the country, they would certainly take in more immigrants who,
like them, have advanced degrees. (The U.S., which is hugely dependent on
foreigners to fill certain skilled occupations like scientific research and
nursing, does admit a relative handful of immigrants each year on work visas.)
Canada and Australia admit immigrants primarily on the basis of skills, and one
thing the economists agree on is that high earners raise the national income by
more than low earners. They are also less of a burden on the tax rolls.

With the exception of a few border states, however, the effect of immigration on
public-sector budgets is small, and the notion that undocumented workers in
particular abuse the system is a canard. Since many illegals pay into Social
Security (using false ID numbers), they are actually subsidizing the U.S.
Treasury. And fewer than 3 percent of immigrants of any stripe receive food
stamps. Also, and contrary to popular wisdom, undocumented people do support
local school districts, since, indirectly as renters or directly as homeowners,
they pay property taxes. Since they tend to be poor, however, they contribute
less than the average. One estimate is that immigrants raise state and local
taxes for everyone else in the U.S. by a trivial amount in most states, but by
as much as $1,100 per household per year in California. They are certainly a
burden on hospitals and jails but, it should be noted, poor legal workers,
including those who are native born, are also a burden on the health care
system.

$( Parsing the Wage Gap $)

Economists focus on Mexicans not because many are undocumented but because,
relative to the rest of the labor force, Mexicans have far fewer skills. And
Mexicans and other Central Americans (who tend to have a similar economic
background) are arriving and staying in this country at a rate of more than
500,000 a year. Their average incomes are vastly lower than those both of
native-born men and of other immigrants.

Native-born workers: $45,400

All immigrants: $37,000

Mexican immigrants: $22,300

The reason Mexicans earn much less than most Americans is their daunting
educational deficit. More than 60 percent of Mexican immigrants are dropouts;
fewer than 10 percent of today's native workers are.

That stark contrast conveys, to economists, two important facts. One is that
Mexicans are supplying a skill level that is much in demand. It doesn't just
seem that Americans don't want to be hotel chambermaids, pick lettuce or repair
roofs; it's true. Most gringos are too educated for that kind of work. The added
diversity, the complementariness of skills, that Mexicans bring is good for the
economy as a whole. They perform services that would otherwise be more expensive
and in some cases simply unavailable.

The Americans who are unskilled, however, must compete with a disproportionate
number of immigrants. One of every four high-school dropouts in the U.S. was
born in Mexico, an astonishing ratio given that the proportion of Mexicans in
the overall labor force is only 1 in 25. So it's not magazine writers who see
their numbers expanding; it's Americans who are, or would be, working in
construction, restaurants, household jobs, unskilled manufacturing and so forth.

That's the theory. But economists have had a hard time finding evidence of
actual harm. For starters, they noticed that societies with lots of immigrants
tend, if anything, to be more prosperous, not less. In the U.S., wages in cities
where immigrants have clustered, like New York, have tended to be higher, not
lower. Mississippi, on the other hand, which has the lowest per-capita income of
any state, has had very few immigrants.

That doesn't necessarily mean that immigrants caused or even contributed to high
wages; it could be they simply go where the demand is greatest -- that their
presence is an effect of high wages. As statisticians are wont to remind us,
''Correlation does not imply causation.'' (The fact that hospitals are filled
with sick people doesn't mean hospitals make you sick.) Maybe without
immigrants, wages in New York would be even higher.

And certainly, wages of the unskilled have been a source of worry for years.
From 1970 to 1995, wages for high-school dropouts, the group that has been the
most affected by immigrants, plummeted by more than 30 percent, after adjusting
for inflation. Look at the following averages (all for male workers):

College graduates: $73,000

People with some college: $41,000

High-school grads: $32,000

Dropouts: $24,800

These figures demonstrate a serious problem, at least if you care about wage
inequality, and a quick glance at this list and the previous one shows that
native-born dropouts are earning only a shade more than Mexicans working in this
country. But that hardly proves that cheap Mexican labor is to blame. For one
thing, economists believe that other factors, like the failure of Congress to
raise the minimum wage, globalization (cheap Chinese labor, that is) and the
decline of unions are equally or even more responsible. Another popular theory
is that computer technology has made skilled labor more valuable and unskilled
labor less so.

Also, when economists look closely at wage dispersion, the picture isn't wholly
consistent with the immigrants-as-culprits thesis. Look again at the numbers:
people at the top (college grads) make a lot more than average but from the
middle on down incomes are pretty compressed. Since only dropouts are being
crowded by illegal immigrants, you would expect them to be falling further
behind every other group. But they aren't; since the mid-90's, dropouts have
been keeping pace with the middle; it's the corporate executives and their ilk
at the top who are pulling away from the pack, a story that would seem to have
little to do with immigration.

This isn't conclusive either, Borjas notes. After all, maybe without immigrants,
dropouts would have done much better than high-school grads. Economists look for
the ''counterfactual,'' or what would have happened had immigrants not come.
It's difficult to tell, because in the real world, there is always a lot more
going on -- an oil shock, say, or a budget deficit -- than the thing whose
effect you are studying. To isolate the effect of immigrants alone would require
a sort of lab experiment. The trouble with macroeconomics is you can't squeeze
your subjects into a test tube.

$( Marielitos in Miami, Doctors in Israel and Other Natural Experiments $)

The academic study of immigration's economic effects earned little attention
before the subject started to get political traction in the 1980's. Then, in
1990, Borjas, who was on the faculty at the University of California at Santa
Barbara, published a book, ''Friends or Strangers,'' which was mildly critical
of immigration's effects.

That same year, David Card realized that a test tube did exist. Card decided to
study the 1980 Mariel boat lift, in which 125,000 Cubans were suddenly permitted
to emigrate. They arrived in South Florida with virtually no advance notice, and
approximately half remained in the Miami area, joining an already-sizable Cuban
community and swelling the city's labor force by 7 percent.

To Card, this produced a ''natural experiment,'' one in which cause and effect
were clearly delineated. Nothing about conditions in the Miami labor market had
induced the Marielitos to emigrate; the Cubans simply left when they could and
settled in the city that was closest and most familiar. So Card compared the
aftershocks in Miami with the labor markets in four cities -- Tampa, Atlanta,
Houston and Los Angeles -- that hadn't suddenly been injected with immigrants.

That the Marielitos, a small fraction of whom were career criminals, caused an
upsurge in crime, as well as a more generalized anxiety among natives, is
indisputable. It was also commonly assumed that the Marielitos were taking jobs
from blacks.

But Card documented that blacks, and also other workers, in Miami actually did
better than in the control cities. In 1981, the year after the boat lift, wages
for Miami blacks were fractionally higher than in 1979; in the control cities,
wages for blacks were down. The only negative was that unemployment rose among
Cubans (a group that now included the Marielitos).

Unemployment in all of the cities rose the following year, as the country
entered a recession. But by 1985, the last year of Card's study, black
unemployment in Miami had retreated to below its level of 1979, while in the
control cities it remained much higher. Even among Miami's Cubans, unemployment
returned to pre-Mariel levels, confirming what seemed visible to the naked eye:
the Marielitos were working. Card concluded, ''The Mariel influx appears to have
had virtually no effect on the wages or unemployment rates of less-skilled
workers.''

Although Card offered some hypotheses, he couldn't fully explain his results.
The city's absorption of a 7 percent influx, he wrote, was ''remarkably rapid''
and -- even if he did not quite say it -- an utter surprise. Card's Mariel study
hit the cloistered world of labor economists like a thunderbolt. All of 13
pages, it was an aesthetic as well as an academic masterpiece that prompted
Card's peers to look for other ''natural'' immigration experiments. Soon after,
Jennifer Hunt, an Australian-born Ph.D. candidate at Harvard, published a study
on the effects of the return migration of ethnic French from Algeria to France
in 1962, the year of Algerian independence. Similar in spirit though slightly
more negative than the Mariel study, Hunt found that the French retour had a
very mild upward effect on unemployment and no significant effect on wages.

Rachel Friedberg, an economist at Brown, added an interesting twist to the
approach. Rather than compare the effect of immigration across cities, she
compared it across various occupations. Friedberg's curiosity had been piqued in
childhood; born in Israel, she moved to the U.S. as an infant and grew up amid
refugee grandparents who were a constant reminder of the immigrant experience.

She focused on an another natural experiment -- the exodus of 600,000 Russian
Jews to Israel, which increased the population by 14 percent in the early
1990's. She wanted to see if Israelis who worked in occupations in which the
Russians were heavily represented had lost ground relative to other Israelis.
And in fact, they had. But that didn't settle the issue. What if, Friedberg
wondered, the Russians had entered less-attractive fields precisely because, as
immigrants, they were at the bottom of the pecking order and hadn't been able to
find better work? And in fact, she concluded that the Russians hadn't caused
wage growth to slacken; they had merely gravitated to positions that were less
attractive. Indeed, Friedberg's conclusion was counterintuitive: the Russians
had, if anything, improved wages of native Israelis. She hypothesized that the
immigrants competed more with one another than with natives. The Russians became
garage mechanics; Israelis ran the garages.

$( Measuring the Hit to Wages $)

By the mid-90's, illegal immigration was heating up as an issue in the United
States, prompting a reaction in California, where schools and other public
services were beginning to feel a strain. But academics were coalescing around
the view that immigration was essentially benign -- that it depressed unskilled
native wages by a little and raised the average native income by a little. In
1997, a panel of the National Academy of Sciences, which reviewed all of the
literature, estimated that immigration during the previous decade had, at most,
lowered unskilled-native wages by 1 percent to 2 percent.

Borjas didn't buy it. In 1999 he published a second, more strident book,
''Heaven's Door.'' It espoused a ''revisionist'' view -- that immigration caused
real harm to lower-income Americans. Borjas argued that localized studies like
Mariel were flawed, for the simple reason that labor markets in the U.S. are
linked together. Therefore, the effects of immigration could not be gauged by
comparing one city with another.

Borjas pointed out, as did others, that more native-born Americans started
migrating out of California in the 1970's, just as Mexicans began arriving in
big numbers. Previously California was a destination for Americans. Borjas
reckoned that immigrants were pushing out native-born Americans, and that the
effect of all the new foreigners was dispersed around the country.

The evidence of a labor surplus seemed everywhere. ''If you wanted a maid,'' he
recalled of California during the 90's, ''all you had to do was tell your
gardener, and you had one tomorrow.'' He felt certain that Mexicans were
depressing unskilled wages but didn't know how to prove it.

After Borjas moved East, he had an inspiration. It was easy to show that
high-school dropouts had experienced both lower wage growth and more competition
from immigrants, but that didn't settle the point, because so many other factors
could have explained why dropouts did poorly. The inspiration was that people
compete not only against those with a like education, but also against workers
of roughly the same experience. Someone looking for a first job at a McDonald's
competes against other unskilled entry-level job seekers. A reporter with 15
years' experience who is vying for a promotion will compete against other
veterans but not against candidates fresh out of journalism school.

This insight enabled Borjas to break down the Census data in a way that put his
thesis to a more rigorous test. He could represent skill groups within each age
as a point on a graph. There was one point for dropouts who were 10 years out of
school, another for those who were 20 years and 30 years out. Each of these
points was repeated for each decade from 1960 to 2000. And there was a similar
set of points for high-school graduates, college graduates and so forth. The
points were situated on the graph according to two variables: the horizontal
axis measured the change in the share of immigrants within each ''point,'' the
vertical axis measured wage growth.

A result was a smattering of dots that on casual inspection might have resembled
a work of abstract art. But looking closer, the dots had a direction: they
pointed downward. Using a computer, Borjas measured the slope: it suggested that
wages fell by 3 to 4 percent for each 10 percent increase in the share of
immigrants.

With this graph, Borjas could calculate that, during the 80's and 90's, for
instance, immigrants caused dropouts to suffer a 5 percent decline relative to
college graduates. In a paper published in 2003, ''The Labor Demand Curve Is
Downward Sloping,'' Borjas termed the results ''negative and significant.''

But what about the absolute effect? Assuming businesses did not hire any of the
new immigrants, Borjas's finding would translate to a hefty 9 percent wage loss
for the unskilled over those two decades, and lesser declines for other groups
(which also received some immigrants). As we know, however, as the population
grows, demand rises and business do hire more workers. When Borjas adjusted for
this hiring, high-school dropouts were still left with a wage loss of 5 percent
over those two decades, some $1,200 a year. Other groups, however, showed a very
slight gain. To many economists as well as lay folk, Borjas's findings confirmed
what seemed intuitive all along: add to the supply of labor, and the price goes
down.

To Card, however, what seems ''intuitive'' is often suspect. He became a labor
economist because the field is full of anomalies. ''The simple-minded theories
that they teach you in economics don't work'' for the labor market, he told me.
In the 90's, Card won the prestigious Clark Medal for several studies, including
Mariel and another showing that, contrary to theory, raising the minimum wage in
New Jersey (another natural experiment) did not cause fast-food outlets to cut
back on employment.

In a recent paper, ''Is the New Immigration Really So Bad?'' Card took indirect
aim at Borjas and, once again, plumbed a labor-market surprise. Despite the
recent onslaught of immigrants, he pointed out, U.S. cities still have fewer
unskilled workers than they had in 1980. Immigrants may be depriving native
dropouts of the scarcity value they might have enjoyed, but at least in a
historical sense, unskilled labor is not in surplus. America has become so
educated that immigrants merely mitigate some of the decline in the homegrown
unskilled population. Thus, in 1980, 24 percent of the work force in
metropolitan areas were dropouts; in 2000, only 18 percent were.

Card also observed that cities with more immigrants, like those in the Sun Belt
close to the Mexican border, have a far higher proportion of dropouts. This has
led to a weird unbalancing of local labor markets. For example, 10 percent of
the work force in Pittsburgh and 15 percent in Cleveland are high-school
dropouts; in Houston the figure is 25 percent, in Los Angeles, 30 percent. The
immigrants aren't dispersing, or not very quickly.

So where do all the dropouts work? Los Angeles does have a lot of apparel
manufacturers but not enough of such immigrant-intensive businesses to account
for all of its unskilled workers. Studies also suggest that immigration is
correlated with a slight increase in unemployment. But again, the effect is
small. So the mystery is how cities absorb so many unskilled. Card's theory is
that the same businesses operate differently when immigrants are present; they
spend less on machines and more on labor. Still, he admitted, ''We are left with
the puzzle of explaining the remarkable flexibility of employment demand.''

Card started thinking about this when he moved from Princeton in the mid-90's.
He noticed that everyone in Berkeley seemed to have a gardener, ''even though
professors are not rich.'' In the U.S., which has more unskilled labor than
Europe, more people employ housecleaners. The African-American women who held
those jobs before the war, like the Salvadorans and Guatemalans of today,
weren't taking jobs; they were creating them.

$( The Personal Is Economic $)

Though Card works on immigration only some of the time, he and Borjas clearly
have become rivals. In a recent paper, Card made a point of referring to the
''revisionist'' view as ''overly pessimistic.'' Borjas told Business Week that
Card's ideas were ''insane.'' (''Obviously I didn't mean he is insane; he is a
very bright guy,'' Borjas clarified when we talked. ''The idea that you can add
15 or 20 million people and not have any effect seems crazy.'') Alan B. Krueger,
an economist who is friendly with each, says, ''I fear it might become
acrimonious.'' Card told me twice that Borjas's calculations were
''disingenuous.'' ''Borjas has a strong view on this topic,'' Card said,
''almost an emotional position.''

Card is more comfortable with anecdote than many scholars, and he tells a story
about his wife, who teaches English to Mexicans. In one class, she tapped on a
wall, asking a student to identify it, and the guy said, ''That's drywall.'' To
Card, it signifies that construction is one of those fields that soak up a
disproportionate number of Mexicans; it's a little piece of the puzzle. ''Even
when I was a kid in Ontario 45 years ago,'' he notes, ''the tobacco pickers were
Jamaicans. They were terrible jobs -- backbreaking.'' Card is a political
liberal with thinning auburn air and a controlled, smirky smile. His prejudices,
if not his emotions, favor immigrants. Raised by dairy farmers in Guelph,
Ontario, he remembers that Canadian cities were mostly boring while he was
growing up. The ones that attracted immigrants, like Toronto and Vancouver,
boomed and became more cosmopolitan.

''Everyone knows in trade there are winners and losers,'' Card says. ''For some
reason it doesn't stop people from advocating free trade.'' He could have said
the same of Wal-Mart, which has put plenty of Mom-and-Pop retailers out of
business. In fact, any time a firm offers better or more efficient service,
somebody will suffer. But the economy grows as a result.

''I honestly think the economic arguments are second order,'' Card told me when
we discussed immigration. ''They are almost irrelevant.''

Card's implication is that darker forces -- ethnic prejudice, maybe, or fear of
social disruption -- is what's really motivating a lot of anti-immigrant
sentiment. Borjas, a Hispanic who has written in blunt terms about the skill
deficits of Mexicans, in particular arouses resentment. ''Mexicans aren't as
good as Cubans like him,'' Douglas S. Massey, a demographer at Princeton, said
in a pointed swipe.

Borjas lives an assimilated life. He has a wife who speaks no Spanish, three
kids, two of whom study his mother tongue as a foreign language, and a home in
Lexington, a tony Boston suburb. Yet his mind-set often struck me as that of an
outsider -- an immigrant, if you will, to his own profession.

When I asked the inevitable question -- did his exile experience influence his
choice of career? -- he said, ''Clearly it predisposed me.'' The seeds of the
maverick scholar were planted the year before he left Cuba, a searing time when
the revolution was swinging decisively toward Soviet-style communism. His family
had owned a small factory that manufactured men's pants. The factory was shut
down, and the family made ready to leave the island, but their departure was
delayed by the death of Borjas's father. The son had to attend a revolutionary
school, where the precepts of Marxism-Leninism were drilled into the future
economist with notable lack of success. One day he marched in the band and
drummed the ''Internationale'' in front of Fidel Castro and the visiting Yuri
Gagarin, the Soviet cosmonaut. ''Since that year I have been incredibly
resistant to any kind of indoctrination,'' he told me -- an attitude that
surfaces in wry references to the liberal Harvard environs as the ''People's
Republic of Cambridge'' and to American political correctness in general.

Borjas's family arrived with virtually no money; they got some clothing from
Catholic Charities and a one-time stipend of, as he recollects, $100. His mother
got a factory job in Miami, where they stayed several years. Then the family
moved to New Jersey. He attended Saint Peter's College in Jersey City and got
his Ph.D. at Columbia.

I asked him whether the fact that he was Cuban, the most successful Latin
subgroup, had affected his views of other Hispanics. ''Look, I've never been
psychoanalyzed,'' he said with an air of resignation, as if he were accustomed
to hearing such loaded questions. One thing Borjas shares with Card is a view
that others treat immigration emotionally. But Borjas takes comfort not in
anecdote but in empiricism. As he said to me often, ''The data is the data.''

$( Immigrants Can Be Complementary $)

Economists on Card's side of the debate recognize that they at least have to
deal with Borjas's data -- to reconcile why the local studies and national
studies produce different results. Card shrugs it off; even 5 percent for a
dropout, he observes, is only 50 to 60 cents an hour. Giovanni Peri, an Italian
working at the University of California, Davis, had a more intriguing response.
Peri replicated Borjas's scatter diagram, and also his finding that unskilled
natives suffer a loss relative to, say, graduates. He made different
assumptions, however, about how businesses adjust to the influx of new workers,
and as a result, he found that the absolute harm was less, or the gain was
greater, for all native-born groups. By his reckoning, native dropouts lost only
1 percent of their income during the 1990's.

Peri's theory is that most of the wage losses are sustained by previous
immigrants, because immigrants compete most directly with one another. It's a
principle of economics that a surplus in one part of the production scheme
raises the demand for every other one. For instance, if you have a big influx of
chefs, you can use more waiters, pushing up their wages; if you have a lot of
chefs and waiters, you need more Sub-Zeros, so investment will also rise. The
only ones hurt, in this example, are the homegrown chefs -- the people who are
''like'' the immigrants.

Indeed, workers who are unlike immigrants see a net gain; more foreign doctors
increases the demand for native hospital administrators. Borjas assumes that a
native dropout (or a native anything) is interchangeable with an immigrant of
the same skill level. Peri doesn't. If enough Mexicans go into construction,
some native workers may be hurt, but a few will get promotions, because with
more crews working there will be a greater demand for foremen, who most likely
will be natives.

Natives have a different mix of skills -- English, for instance, or knowledge of
the landscape. In economists' lingo, foreigners are not ''perfect substitutes.''
(Friedberg also observed this in Israel.) In some cases, they will complement
rather than compete with native workers. Vietnamese manicurists in California
cater to a lower-price, less-exclusive market than native-run salons. The
particular skills of an Italian designer -- or even an economist -- are distinct
from an American's. ''My work is autobiographical to a large extent,'' notes
Peri, who got into the field when the Italian government commissioned him to
study why Italy was losing so many professionals. The foreigners he sees in
California are a boon to the U.S. It astonishes him how people like
Sensenbrenner want to restrict immigration and apply the letter of the law
against those working here.

This is a very romantic view. The issue is not so much Italian designers as
Mexican dropouts. But many Mexicans work jobs that are unappealing to most
Americans; in this sense, they are not exactly like natives of their skill level
either. Mexicans have replenished some occupations that would have become
underpopulated; for instance, 40,000 people who became meat processors
immigrated to the U.S. during the 1990's, shoring up the industry. Without them,
some plants would have raised wages, but others would have closed or, indeed,
relocated to Mexico.

$( Are All Dropouts the Same? $)

I talked to half a dozen vintners and a like number of roofing-company owners,
both fields that rely on Mexican labor, and frequently heard that Americans do
not, in sufficient numbers, want the work. In the case of the vineyards, if
Mexicans weren't available, some of the grapes would be harvested by machine.
This is what economists mean by ''capital adjusting.'' If the human skills are
there, capital will find a way to employ them. Over the short term, people chase
jobs, but over the long term jobs chase people. (That is why software firms
locate in Silicon Valley.)

If you talk to enough employers, you start to gather that they prefer immigrant
labor over unskilled Americans. The former have fewer problems with tardiness, a
better work ethic. Some of this may be prejudice. But it's possible that Mexican
dropouts may be better workers than our dropouts. In Mexico, not finishing high
school is the norm; it's not associated with an unsuitability for work or even
especially with failure. In the U.S., where the great majority do graduate,
those who don't graduate have high rates of drug use and problems with the law.

The issue is charged because the group with by far the highest rate of
incarceration is African-American dropouts. Approximately 20 percent of black
males without high-school diplomas are in jail. Indeed, according to Steven
Raphael, a colleague of Card's at Berkeley, the correlation between wages and
immigration is a lot weaker if you control for the fact that so many black men
are in prison. But should you control for it? Borjas says he thinks not. It's
pretty well established that as the reward for legal work diminishes, some
people turn to crime. This is why people sold crack; the payoff was tremendous.
Borjas has developed one of his graphs to show that the presence of immigrants
is correlated with doing time, especially among African-Americans. Incarceration
rates, he notes, rose sharply in the 70's, just as immigration did. He doesn't
pretend that this is the whole explanation -- only that there is a link. Card
retorts: ''The idea that the way to help the lot of African-Americans is to
restrict Mexicans is ridiculous.'' Black leaders have themselves mostly switched
sides. In the 20's, A. Philip Randolph, who led the Pullman Porters, spoke in
favor of immigration quotas, but the civil rights establishment no longer treats
immigration as a big issue; instead it tends to look at immigrants as potential
constituents. (One person who takes issue with the prevailing view is Anthony W.
Williams, an African-American pastor in Chicago who is running for Congress
against Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. Black leaders have forsaken their
mission, he told me. ''Immigration will destroy the economic base of the
African-American community.'')

In the spring, as the Senate Judiciary Committee was trying to parse these
issues into a piece of legislation, Borjas and Card were invited to air their
views. Each declined, in part because they don't think politicians really
listen. As if to prove the point, the effort to write a joint bill has stalled,
following Sensenbrenner's announcement that the House intends to stage a series
of public hearings on immigration around the country over the summer. There will
be a lot said about border control, many heartfelt stories and probably very
little about natural experiments.

The economists do have political opinions, of course. Borjas leans to a system
like Canada's, which would admit immigrants on the basis of skills. He also says
that, to make sure the problem of illegals does not recur, the U.S. should
secure its borders before it adjusts the status of its present illegals.

Advocates of a more open policy often cite the country's history. They argue
that the racists of bygone eras were not only discriminatory but also wrong.
Card, for instance, mentioned an article penned by a future U.S. senator, Paul
Douglas, titled ''Is the New Immigration More Unskilled Than the Old?'' It was
written in 1919, when many people (though not Douglas) held that Jews, Slavs and
Italians were incompatible with the country's Anglo and Teutonic stock. Nativism
has always been part of the American scene, and it has tended to turn ugly in
periods when the country was tired of or suspicious of foreigners. In 1952,
quotas were maintained in a law sponsored by Senator Pat McCarran, a prominent
McCarthyite. There remains today a palpable strain of xenophobia in the
anti-immigrant movement. Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, remarked to me, rather meanly, ''If someone comes here from
China and they go swimming in a dangerous river, a sign in English is enough,
but the Mexicans want it in Spanish.'' Ninety years ago, some signs were in
German, as were 500 newspapers on American soil.

But U.S. history, as Borjas observes, can be read in two ways. For sure, earlier
waves of immigrants assimilated, but America essentially closed the gate for 40
years. Antipathy toward Germans during World War I forced German-Americans to
hide all traces of their origins. The quotas of the 1920's were reinforced by
the Depression and then by World War II. The country had time to let
assimilation occur.

A reverse process seems to be occurring with Mexican-Americans. Very few
Mexicans came north in the decades after 1920, even though they were relatively
free to do so. As recently as 1970, the U.S. had fewer than one million
Mexicans, almost all of them in Texas and California. The U.S. did bring Mexican
braceros to work on farms during the 1940's, 50's and 60's. The program was
terminated in 1964, and immigration officials immediately noticed a sharp rise
in illicit border crossings. The collapse of the Mexican economy in the 70's
gave migrants a further push. Finally, Mexicans who obtained legal status were
(thanks to the 1965 reform) able to bring in family members.

The important point is that, ultimately, there was a catalytic effect -- so many
Mexicans settled here that it became easier for more Mexicans to follow. One
story has it that in a village in central Mexico people knew the price of
mushrooms in Pennsylvania sooner than people in the next county over. Even if
apocryphal, it illustrates what economists call a network effect: with 12
million people born in Mexico now dispersed around the U.S., information about
job-market conditions filters back to Mexico with remarkable speed.

Now that the network is established, the exodus feels rather permanent; it is
not a wave but a continuous flow. This has led to understandable anxiety, even
among economists, about whether Mexicans will assimilate as rapidly as previous
groups. Although second-generation Mexicans do (overwhelmingly) speak English,
and also graduate from high school at far higher rates than their parents,
Borjas has documented what he calls an ethnic ''half-life'' of immigrant groups:
with each generation, members of the group retain half of the income and
educational deficit (or advantage) of their parents. In other words, each group
tends toward the mean, but the process is slow. Last year he wrote that Mexicans
in America are burdened if not doomed by their ''ethnic capital,'' and will be
for several generations. In ''Heaven's Door,'' Borjas even wrote forgivingly of
the quota system enacted in the 20's, observing that it ''was not born out of
thin air; it was the political consensus. . .reached after 30 years of debate.''
These are distasteful words to many people. But Borjas does not advocate a
return to quotas. His point is that Americans shouldn't kid themselves:
''National origin and immigrant skills are so intimately related, any attempt to
change one will inevitably change the other.''

$( The Limits of Economics $)

Economists more in the mainstream generally agree that the U.S. should take in
more skilled immigrants; it's the issue of the unskilled that is tricky. Many
say that unskilled labor is needed and that the U.S. could better help its
native unskilled by other means (like raising the minimum wage or expanding job
training) than by building a wall. None believe, however, that the U.S. can get
by with no limits. Richard B. Freeman of Harvard floated the idea that the U.S.
simply sell visas at a reasonable price. The fee could be adjusted according to
indicators like the unemployment rate. It is unlikely that Congress will go for
anything so cute, and the economists' specific prescriptions may be beside the
point. As they acknowledge, immigration policy responds to a host of factors --
cultural, political and social as well as economic. Migrant workers, sometimes
just by crowding an uncustomary allotment of people into a single dwelling,
bring a bit of disorder to our civic life; such concerns, though beyond the
economists' range, are properly part of the debate.

What the economists can do is frame a subset of the important issues. They
remind us, first, that the legislated goal of U.S. policy is curiously
disconnected from economics. Indeed, the flow of illegals is the market's signal
that the current legal limits are too low. Immigrants do help the economy; they
are fuel for growth cities like Las Vegas and a salve to older cities that have
suffered native flight. Borjas's research strongly suggests that native
unskilled workers pay a price: in wages, in their ability to find inviting areas
to migrate to and perhaps in employment. But the price is probably a small one.

The disconnect between Borjas's results and Card's hints that there is an
alchemy that occurs when immigrants land ashore; the economy's potential for
absorbing and also adapting is mysterious but powerful. Like any form of
economic change, immigration causes distress and disruption to some. But America
has always thrived on dynamic transformations that produce winners as well as
losers. Such transformations stimulate growth. Other societies (like those in
Europe) have opted for more controls, on immigration and on labor markets
generally. They have more stability and more equality, but less growth and fewer
jobs. Economists have highlighted these issues, but they cannot decide them.
Their resolution depends on a question that Card posed but that the public has
not yet come to terms with: ''What is it that immigration policy is supposed to
achieve?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Manuel I. Immigrant from Guatemala. House Painter.
Norma M. Immigrant from Mexico. Housecleaner.
 Salvador C. Immigrant from Mexico. Construction. (Photographs by David
Turnley/Getty Images, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Emotional Issue for the Top General

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 10


Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified on Monday
before the Senate Armed Services Committee at a field hearing here on immigrants
in the military.

General Pace paused several times and his voice became emotional as he spoke
about his father, an Italian immigrant, who he said often worked three jobs to
help his children. He said immigrants had earned 200 awards or medals in
Afghanistan and Iraq.

Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, called the session to counter
hearings in which House Republicans challenged a Senate immigration bill as weak
on security.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators John W. Warner and Edward M. Kennedy, right, spoke with
Gen. Peter Pace yesterday at a hearing on immigrants. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty
Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  New England: Massachusetts: Conviction In War Crimes Case

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 86 words


A Bosnian man was convicted on charges that he failed to admit on immigration
documents that he was a member of a military unit involved in the killings of
Muslims at Srebrenica in 1995. The man, Marko Boskic, 42, was convicted of two
counts of immigration document fraud that occurred while he applied for refugee
status in 2000. It was subsequently granted. Mr. Boskic said he only fulfilled
mandatory Yugoslavian military service and did not admit he was part of a
Bosnian-Serb military unit.    KATIE ZEZIMA (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Man Accused Of Posing As U.S. Official

BYLINE: By MICK MEENAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words


A Manhattan man was arrested yesterday on charges of stealing from immigrants by
posing as a federal immigration worker and promising to help them obtain green
cards, prosecutors said. The defendant, John Nevarez, 53, of Manhattan, was
indicted on Monday on charges of grand larceny and criminal impersonation.
Prosecutors say he accepted money from immigrants and then, unknown to them,
used fraudulent documents to apply for green cards on their behalf. Mr. Nevarez
is charged with stealing more than $200,000 from 40 immigrants, said Robert M.
Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney. None of the immigrants obtained
green cards, Mr. Morgenthau said.    MICK MEENAN (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Many Workers Fail to Collect in Small Claims Court, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 789 words


For one health care worker, the job began at 7 a.m. most days and ended,
unhappily, months later.

He would ease his burly patient, crippled by diabetes and a stroke, out of bed
into a wheelchair, would help him in the lavatory, would bathe him. At one
point, the man was working 24-hour shifts. Suddenly, he stopped getting paid.

The patient's daughter said he would be paid soon. Weeks passed and still, the
man did not get paid.

The worker felt he had no choice but to quit. Later, he took the man's family to
Small Claims Court and won a $5,000 judgment, the maximum. And he still did not
get paid, until a year later, in 2005, when the family sold some real estate and
the court directed that some of the proceeds go to the worker.

''Small Claims Court has no teeth,'' the man said. ''In my case, if they had not
decided to sell, I would not have gotten the money.'' The middle-aged man, who
was a businessman in the Philippines before becoming a health aide in the United
States, was granted anonymity because he is an illegal immigrant.

The worker is not alone, according to a study to be released soon by MFY Legal
Services in Manhattan, a group that works with community organizations to
provide free legal assistance to those in greatest need.

The study suggests an inability of the court to enforce its judgments, with
perhaps one of three plaintiffs who win their cases unable to collect.

The survey, intended to lobby for reform of the Small Claims Court, is not
statistically representative because of a low percentage of responses. MFY
mailed the surveys, in English, to 3,000 claimants seeking back pay, and 161
completed forms were returned. More than 90 percent of the completed surveys
were in English. MFY also conducted 10 telephone interviews.

Low-wage workers like busboys, bike messengers, construction workers and nannies
-- some of whom are illegal immigrants -- often win cases in Small Claims Court,
the study suggests, yet cannot recover back wages, even with the help of a
sheriff or marshal.

Of those surveyed, close to half of those who won a court decision were unable
to recover money, the report suggests. ''This is very common with low-wage
workers,'' said Chaumtoli Huq, a former MFY lawyer and the lead author of the
report.

''It's not usually a lot of money -- $100 or $200 or $300 -- but it's money they
need for food and shelter,'' Ms. Huq said. ''And workers, especially those who
are illegal, tend to wait and hope and trust the promises of their employers.
And when they do win in court, they wait and wait, often without satisfaction,
unless they get a break.''

MFY, founded in 1963 as the legal arm of Mobilization for Youth, recommended
some remedies in its report, like having the court require employers to identify
bank accounts and other assets; pressuring government regulators not to renew
liquor licenses, construction permits and other documents for recalcitrant
employers; and asking the New York State Legislature to require courts to track
unsatisfied judgments.

With more than 50,000 cases filed, the Small Claims Courts of New York City
describe themselves as some of the busiest courts in the world. Sessions are
held mostly at night, for the convenience of working families, often before
volunteer arbitrators.

Complex rules of evidence are relaxed or simplified, and court fees are $20 or
less for a one-page form. Litigants typically represent themselves rather than
use a lawyer.

MFY conducts small claims court clinics so workers can better present their
cases.

The MFY survey looked at claims exceeding $300 at seven of the city's eight
Small Claims Courts. The first draft of the report was shared with Joseph J.
Gebbia, chief clerk of the Small Claims Court.

From January 2003 to August 2005, nearly 2,900 wage and salary claims were filed
with the courts. Of these claims, nearly 1,200 -- or more than 40 percent --
were decided in favor of workers. Nine percent were won by employers; the rest,
or 49 percent, were settled, dismissed or otherwise closed.

Nearly a third of those answering the MFY survey said they needed a sheriff or
marshal to recover money. Marshals, who are paid a fraction of the recovered
assets, were slightly more successful than sheriffs at getting judgments.

And chance prevails from the beginning. The worker who was not paid by his
client's family is an educated professional who speaks English. A friend
referred him to Damayan Migrant Workers Association, an advocacy group for
Filipino domestic workers, who referred him to MFY.

''How can you win a case and still not get the money?'' asked the man, who then
quoted William E. Gladstone, a 19th-century British prime minister: ''Justice
delayed is justice denied.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A health aide who won his case in court had a hard time
collecting money. A survey by a legal aid group found that his difficulties are
common. (Photo by Lucian Read for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Naturalizations Up Sharply in the State

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 460 words


IN a banner year for naturalizations in Connecticut, more immigrants gained
citizenship last year than in all but one year since 1986.

Fairfield County area had the most. In the Stamford, Norwalk and Bridgeport
area, 3,320 immigrants became citizens during the 2005 fiscal year, a 45 percent
increase from 2004, when 2,291 immigrants became citizens. The Hartford area had
the second most immigrants naturalized in 2005, with 2,561. The fiscal year runs
from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30.

The Department of Homeland Security, which tracks immigration numbers, does not
provide statistics for individual counties or cities. Instead, it groups regions
based on Census Bureau population statistics. The Stamford, Norwalk and
Bridgeport statistics, for instance, include numbers from municipalities in
other parts of Fairfield County.

Throughout Connecticut, 8,169 immigrants became citizens, an increase of 37
percent over the previous year, when 5,957 immigrants gained citizenship. The
number of new citizens in Connecticut last year was more than any other year
since 1986 except for 1997, when 8,452 people gained citizenship.

California, New York and Florida led the nation in the number of immigrants
becoming citizens. California had more than 170,000 new citizens. Nationally,
604,280 people gained citizenship.

In Connecticut, most of the newly naturalized citizens came from Jamaica, with
775, followed by India, with 587, and Poland, with 555.

Myra M. Oliver, the executive director of the International Institute of
Connecticut, a nonprofit social services group that helps immigrants, said she
was not surprised that statistics showed that more people were becoming
citizens. She said the number of people taking citizenship classes on the
weekends at the institute had increased. At a time when immigration is a heated
political issue, immigrants want to solidify their legal status in the United
States, she said, and want a chance to participate in American society.

''I think people want to vote,'' she said.

Contributing to the increase, the state had an influx of refugees in the late
1990's, particularly Africans, Kurds and people from the Kosovo region, Ms.
Oliver said.

It takes about five years to become a citizen once an immigrant has started the
process, so many of those refugees are now becoming citizens, she said.

Philip E. Berns, a Stamford lawyer who focuses on immigration issues, said many
of his clients who have been in the country legally for many years had begun
seeking citizenship because of concerns over the debate in Congress about
stricter immigration laws and fears about the war on terrorism.

''A lot of people are stepping forward to get citizenship who were not doing so
before,'' he said. ''They are really scared.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: COUNSEL -- Philip E. Berns (Photo by Susan Farley for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Sign of the Times

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 330 words


Steve Lonegan, mayor of the Bergen County borough of Bogota, onetime
gubernatorial candidate and dogged critic of state government, has started a new
campaign. This one, however, has none of the thought-provoking intelligence of
his previous crusades on behalf of political reform and a smaller state
government.

Mr. Lonegan is offended by the presence of a billboard in Bogota. He believes
the advertisement on the billboard is divisive, and that, somehow, it sends
''the wrong message.''

The advertisement is for a nearby McDonald's. Vegetarians and fitness buffs
might find this offensive, but Mr. Lonegan's objection has nothing to do with
hamburgers. He doesn't like the ad because it is written in Spanish, and has
asked the hamburger chain to remove the billboard, pronto.

Mr. Lonegan's crusade against a Spanish-language advertisement borders on the
sort of xenophobia that has characterized the nation's continuing debate about
immigration. And it seems particularly out of place in New Jersey, a diverse
state with all of the problems and strengths associated with the new wave of
immigrants. Newspapers and periodicals written in languages other than English
crowd the state's newsstands. Distressed urban areas have been revived by recent
immigrants. And during the World Cup, homes in all parts of the state were
decorated with the flags of Portugal, Brazil, Ghana, Italy and many other
nations.

Mr. Lonegan's criticism also contradicts the libertarian position he had
espoused in the past. If Mr. Lonegan wants government to get off the back of
business, this is an odd way of showing it. McDonald's is clearly trying to
reach a Spanish-speaking clientele in Northern New Jersey. One would expect a
free-market thinker like Mr. Lonegan to applaud the company's marketing efforts.

The campaign against McDonald's suggests that New Jersey, where nearly 18
percent of residents are foreign-born, is not quite the model of tolerance many
residents believe it to be.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 21, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Manhattan: Report Tracks Immigrants' Health

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 124 words


Immigrants arrive in New York City in better health than New Yorkers who were
born in the United States, but their advantage fades over time, the Department
of Health and Mental Hygiene reported yesterday. Immigrants are less likely to
be obese, to smoke, or to have diabetes or H.I.V. infection. But four years or
more after they reach here, foreign-born people are heavier, and more likely to
report their health as poor. The department also found striking differences
among immigrants. People from several Caribbean countries are more likely to be
obese or to die from heart disease or diabetes. Dominicans have the lowest rates
of several cancers. And people from Poland, Ukraine and Italy are most likely to
smoke.    RICHARD PEREZ-PENA (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In This Chinatown, Chinese Is Just a Start

BYLINE: By Jennifer 8. Lee.

This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address:
homefront@nytimes.com.

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 716 words


CHINATOWN is not the biggest Chinatown in New York City.

That distinction belongs to the one in Flushing, Queens, which surpassed the
Chinatown in Manhattan as home to the nation's largest Chinese population east
of the Rocky Mountains a few years back.

Of course, it is not just the Chinese who have revitalized the once-faded
commercial center. Koreans, Indians, Pakistanis, Salvadorans and Greeks -- all
of whom have arrived in large numbers over the last 15 years -- have made
Flushing one of the most ethnically diverse neighborhoods in the most ethnically
diverse borough in New York. More than 150 languages are spoken there.

Flushing is where women in saris shop for seafood in Chinese supermarkets as
their children ogle live frogs destined for cooking pots. Where the library
branch has collections in Russian as well as in Punjabi and Gujarati, two
languages of India. Where a Mexican grocery worker cries ''Yikuaiqian!
Yikuaiqian!'' (One dollar! One dollar!) -- in perfectly accented Mandarin
Chinese -- to lure passers-by. Where the Sheraton offers event catering in
Indian, Spanish, Korean and Chinese menus. Where the newspaper stand still
carries Irish and Jewish newspapers, an echo of past immigrant populations.

The immigrant presence has fueled an entrepreneur-driven boom that has been an
engine for economic growth for Queens, according to a report issued last month
by the state comptroller's office. Employment in Flushing grew by 4.4 percent in
2004, the most recent year for which data is available, compared with 0.5
percent citywide.

Flushing has one of the highest demands for residential and commercial real
estate in the borough, and residential rents, with a median of $1,000 per month,
are the highest in Queens. Commercial developers do not even need to advertise
to get calls from doctors, accountants and travel agents looking to open or
expand offices in Flushing.

''There is a nucleus and we happen to be at the center of it,'' said Eugene
Morimoto Tsai, 29, president of the Asia Plaza Corporation, a real estate and
construction company. Mr. Tsai, who commutes from Murray Hill in Manhattan, grew
up in Flushing and worked at Goldman Sachs and a private equity group before
turning his attention back to Queens.

His father, Jentai Tsai, started Asia Bank, based in Flushing, in the early
1980's in part to help immigrant entrepreneurs who lacked the financial
histories that would pass muster with mainstream banks. Today, Flushing has 30
to 40 banks within a half-mile stretch and serves as a regional financial
center. There is an extraordinarily high demand for safe deposit boxes.

That the northwest corner of Queens, which started as a settlement named for a
Dutch town, Vlissingen, would become the economic anchor for a borough is
somewhat curious given that much of the city's economic development radiates
outward from Manhattan, and that Flushing is about five miles away.

But Flushing's original appeal was in its role as a regional transportation hub.
It is the terminus of the No. 7 subway line, a nexus for 24 bus lines, and a
stop on the Long Island Rail Road. It is also easily accessible by highway,
which appeals to Chinese-Americans who live on Long Island and in Westchester
County and New Jersey. The Bloomberg administration, taking notice of Flushing's
rising economic role, has created a business improvement district and a land use
plan for the area.

Flushing's immigrants, who now make up 60 percent of the population, have
climbed an economic ladder over the last decade. Mr. Tsai likes to talk about a
street vendor who sold tofu custard -- like flan only made with soy -- out of a
shopping cart in front of his father's bank in the mid-1990's. He was considered
a nuisance but could not be shooed away, so Jentai Tsai made a deal with him: as
long as he watched for bank robbers and helped customers with shopping bags, he
could stay.

Today, that vendor has a flower store on Roosevelt Avenue, right off Main
Street. He is known in the neighborhood as Soy Bean Chen, or Doufu Chen. While
he makes most of his money off bamboo and orchid sales, he still gets up at 5
every morning to make tofu custard.

''It's what I started with,'' he said. ''Some of my customers today are ones
from when I had my shopping cart.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Soy Bean Chen Flower Shop, one of the thriving businesses
in the Chinatown in Flushing, Queens, customers can buy tofu custard, as well as
orchids and bamboo. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Equation

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 495 words


Roger Lowenstein deserves congratulations; this is the kind of article that we
desperately need (July 9). Rather than uncritically presenting opposing
positions, in the name of balanced journalism, on important public policy, he
explores diverse views, testing them against one another and striving to reach
as clear an understanding of the issues as is possible. This is responsible
writing.

Nicholas E. Knorr

Chicago

Lowenstein writes that by the mid-90's, the consensus of many economists was
that immigration ''depressed unskilled native wages by a little and raised the
average native income by a little.'' Even in this best-case analysis,
immigration is hardly a boon for the economy. If David Card is wrong,
immigration will further widen the economic gap in the various races and classes
in the United States. If George Borjas is wrong, limiting immigration would make
the nation marginally less economically vibrant. For me, the vital difference
between the two positions is in the possible results. Any error in Borjas's
argument is remediable by increasing immigration. Acting on Card's analysis, if
wrong, could rend the country.

Roger Rice

Bedminster, N.J.

While illegal immigration may be of negligible benefit to the overall economy,
it has greatly benefited immigrants, and it has benefited their employers even
more. It is a brave new world, indeed, when many American economists cheer on
economic activity that benefits foreign nationals at the expense of their own
countrymen. Not to mention that the use of illegal aliens amounts to a costly
scheme redistributing wealth from America's working class to the upper classes,
who profit from the labor of illegal aliens.

Mark Rustow

Belle Harbor, N.Y.

I very much welcomed Lowenstein's article but wonder why he and the economists
that he spoke to did little to address the issue of whether today's undocumented
immigrants are different from the more traditional immigrants who have come to
the United States. Do they behave like traditional immigrants or like temporary
workers? If they are truly immigrants who plan to stay in the United States, you
would assume that they would spend their wages in the United States. If,
however, their plan is primarily to earn enough to return to their countries of
origin eventually, then wouldn't this have a different economic impact on our
country?

Rufina Lee

Brooklyn

Economists seem to think within a pretty small and well-defined box. For the
rest of us, the question that underlies the immigration debate is, What will it
do to our population? Do we want to have 450 million people in the United States
by 2050? Has California really benefited from having some five million more
residents every decade? What will this largely immigration-driven growth mean in
terms of the economics of climate control or providing adequate food and water?
These are the kind of questions Congress should be considering as it pursues
immigration reform.

Ted Christopher

Rochester

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by David Turnley/Getty Images)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 27, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Green Cards Would Mean Fingerprinting At Airports

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26


The nation's estimated 12 million legal permanent residents would be subject to
fingerprinting every time they re-entered the United States, under a plan the
Homeland Security Department intends to announce Thursday.

The new security checks would be used at all international airports, seaports
and land borders. Even before the proposal was officially announced, it drew
strong opposition from some immigrant advocates who said it would send the wrong
signal to people who were legally trying to become citizens.

The new security checks would expand a program called US-Visit that now covers
most foreign visitors to the United States from countries except Canada and
Mexico.

Since January 2004, 61 million people have been fingerprinted and digitally
photographed to confirm that the visas they hold are valid and to check whether
visitors have criminal records or are terrorism suspects.

The proposal to expand the program comes at a time when the Homeland Security
Department has integrated computer systems operated by its Citizenship and
Immigration Services unit, which maintains records including fingerprints on all
legal permanent residents.

Anna Hinken, a US-Visit spokeswoman, said that requiring legal permanent
residents to undergo such a check would make it possible to intercept people who
were using a stolen or fraudulent legal permanent resident card, or green card,
to enter the United States illegally.

It will also comply with a legal requirement that the Homeland Security
Department use biometrics to confirm the validity of government-issued travel
documents at the border, she said.

''This will make people safer,'' Ms. Hinken said, ''because no one can steal
their permanent resident card and pretend to be them.''

The new review system, which would not be put into effect for several months,
would affect an estimated one million people a year, Ms. Hinken said; that
represents the approximate number of times that legal permanent residents
re-enter the United States after having traveled abroad.

But some immigrant advocates said the plan was reminiscent of the effort,
started after the 2001 terrorist attacks, to require Middle Eastern and South
Asian men on temporary visas in the United States to register with federal
authorities.

''The security measures required to become legal permanent residents in the
first place are sufficient to guarantee our homeland security,'' said Shirley
Lin, a spokeswoman for the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund in
New York. ''This is an unnecessary measure that sends a wrong signal to those
expressing their desire to become a full part of United States society.''

The announcement on Thursday will involve just a proposed rule, meaning there
will be a 30-day comment period before the changes could become final, Ms.
Hinken said.

Besides extending the requirements to legal permanent residents, officials want
to start doing the reviews for some Canadian visitors, Ms. Hinken said.

The proposed system would not affect most Canadians who visit the United States
as tourists or Mexicans entering the United States with a government-issued
border crossing card. The requirement would just apply to some Canadians
entering the United States with work visas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and the Minimum Wage

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1001 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Raise Wages, Not Walls,'' by Michael S. Dukakis and Daniel J. B. Mitchell
(Op-Ed, July 25):

Finally, a sensible word about the issue that is at the core of both immigration
and our own working poor: the unwillingness of Congress to risk a few votes in
the name of a fair working wage.

I live in a town that, despite its famous wealth, has a large population of
Central American workers. Early every morning, the men gather outside at pickup
points to be chosen for various landscaping and construction jobs. Their wives
walk, tired and stooped, to their housecleaning gigs.

I value their presence here, but it is obvious that they are employed in this
underground economy because they work more cheaply and often harder than
Americans at the same level of the work force.

They do so only because they are earning so much more, even at these sub-minimum
wages, than they would in their home countries. Americans would commit
themselves, with dignity and dedication, to these jobs if the employers did the
same.

A founding principle in our history is respect for the intrinsic value of one's
labor and time. Raising the minimum wage would restore that value in the
workplace and possibly solve the immigration issue at the same time.

Bob Diefendorf
Princeton, N.J., July 25, 2006

To the Editor:

Congress does need a new approach to illegal immigration, but raising the
minimum wage is not the answer.

Michael S. Dukakis and Daniel J. B. Mitchell write, ''Before we had mass illegal
immigration in this country, hotel beds were made, dishes washed, office floors
were cleaned, restaurant dishes were washed and crops picked -- by Americans.''

True. But now, many of those same Americans have gone on to do bigger and better
things. The same class of citizens who used to do the ''dirty jobs'' in this
country now do things like earn college degrees or own their own businesses.

This country as a whole has gotten wealthier over the years. As lifestyles
improve, the supply of workers to do the ''dirty jobs'' decreases.

Illegal immigrants have been more than willing to step in and fill these
low-paying jobs. If they were not there to fill in, this country's overall
wealth would not be what it is now.

Bob Bilokonsky
Auburn Hills, Mich., July 25, 2006

To the Editor:

Raising the minimum wage would make more jobs attractive to American workers.
The history of past increases belies opponents' arguments that an increase would
destroy low-wage jobs.

But to the extent that a higher minimum wage might squeeze low-wage employers,
it would squeeze them to be more efficient, which would be a boon to the
American economy.

A higher minimum wage would cause employers to improve the productivity of their
higher-paid workers, in an effort to extract the same value out of the wages
they pay.

A higher minimum wage would not decrease the amount of work that needs to be
done. Because a vast majority of minimum wage jobs are service or agricultural
jobs, they simply cannot be exported. Ultimately, a fair minimum wage would
benefit everyone.

Anthony Bolzan
Beverly, Mass., July 26, 2006

The writer was a strategic and legal adviser to one of the co-sponsors of a 2005
minimum wage bill in New Hampshire.

To the Editor:

Michael S. Dukakis and Daniel J. B. Mitchell say that increasing the minimum
wage and then strictly enforcing the labor laws would boost the employment of
Americans and discourage illegal immigration.

But if we're willing to enforce laws, let's simply enforce the ones we already
have against employing illegal immigrants. This would automatically drive wages
higher for the jobs still worth doing that are now done primarily by illegal
immigrants.

Paul Nachman
Bozeman, Mont., July 26, 2006

To the Editor:

Illegal immigrants typically take low-paying jobs, often ''off the books'' and
at less than the minimum wage. So Michael S. Dukakis and Daniel J. B. Mitchell
propose raising the minimum wage to deal with this problem?

Raising the minimum wage would make it more likely that employers would use
illegal immigrants for their labor needs, because the price of employing legal
citizens and residents would be increased. Instead of decreasing the demand for
illegal immigrants, a higher minimum wage would increase it.

Mr. Dukakis and Mr. Mitchell are right that increasing the minimum wage could
lead to the destruction of some low-paying jobs. Their proposal should not be
considered as the answer to anything other than how best to damage the
opportunities of young, inexperienced and unskilled workers looking for their
first job.

Sean Parnell
Vice President
The Heartland Institute
Chicago, July 25, 2006

To the Editor:

Michael S. Dukakis and Daniel J. B. Mitchell have finally said what no one else
seems willing to say: that a living wage and decent working conditions and
benefits would fill tough jobs with American workers and reduce America's
magnetic attraction for illegal immigrants.

Low wages pose a very real problem for Americans that is not faced by many
illegal immigrants. An illegal immigrant with no family here, who is able to
work two or three jobs and share sleeping quarters with others, can get by on
wages that someone whose family is in this country can't get by on.

A further step in the right direction would be a well-advertised anonymous hot
line where Americans and illegal immigrants could report employer infractions.
Rather than having to inspect every employer, enforcement officers could
investigate only those accused of exploiting people. The possibility of being
reported would keep employers honest.

Joanna Fancy
Santa Monica, Calif., July 25, 2006

To the Editor:

Michael S. Dukakis and Daniel J. B. Mitchell concede that ''millions of illegal
immigrants work for minimum and even sub-minimum wages.''

Wouldn't raising the minimum wage create an even bigger divide between
naturalized Americans and immigrants, and thus exacerbate the immigration issue
rather than resolve it?

Edward Wronka
Livonia, N.Y., July 25, 2006


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Narrowing the Audience Widens the Flaws

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION: CHANNELING; Pg.
28

LENGTH: 556 words


WHEN the International Channel, which aimed to appeal to all immigrants,
switched its format and its name to become AZN TV and focused on Asian and
Asian-American culture, the idea was simple: Narrow it down. The change, which
Comcast undertook in March 2005, came initially with the promise of new and more
diverse original programming for that audience.

But the channel's actual evolution has been fraught.

Approximately half of the channel's employees -- primarily those on the creative
side -- were laid off last fall, and it appears to be in a holding pattern,
rotating a limited program mix and often airing reruns that are two or more
years old. Among the offerings that seem not quite ready for prime time are
''Achar!,'' a Singaporean sitcom about an interracial (Chinese-Indian) couple
featuring the Bollywood star Jas Arora, and ''Asia Street Comedy,'' a ham-fisted
and sometimes offensive sketch show (occasionally redeemed by Parry Shen, late
of the movie ''Better Luck Tomorrow'' and the FX show ''Thief''). The short
films that are featured on the AZN original show ''Popcorn Zen,'' which
spotlights Asian-American directors, prove no more compelling, only serving to
remind how difficult it is to create fresh, taut narratives, even for filmmakers
working outside of industry constraints.

On one level the whole narrowcasting approach feels like an admission of defeat,
an acknowledgment that the particular interests of Asian-American viewers aren't
addressed by mainstream networks. But offering Asian-theme shows isn't enough.
And AZN's slapdash mix of originals, syndicated shows, videos and movies doesn't
constitute a coherent aesthetic. Instead, it seems like a cobbled-together
attempt to serve several sub-demographics at once.

Still, many of these offerings deserve airtime. There are Thai pop videos,
B-list Bollywood films and several Asian news programs (without subtitles). AZN
rebroadcasts ''Winter Sonata,'' a moody Korean soap opera with a rabid following
that looks as if it were filmed through a sheet of tissue paper. And then
there's the consistently engaging ''Cinema AZN,'' a weekly newsmagazine devoted
to Asian film that is one of the network's few original productions. It has
featured segments on the sublime Korean actress Bae Doona and the Hong Kong
martial arts star turned 90's American television cop Sammo Hung. Car-chase
flicks and art-house fare are reviewed with equal scrutiny, a refreshingly
catholic perspective.

Generally AZN excels at magazine-style news programming, on subjects ranging
from the unacknowledged contribution of Chinese-Canadian soldiers in World War
II to Japan's Kamakura festival (where young children build several hundred
small snow houses) to Jackie Chan, who in a surprisingly far-reaching interview
said that as a young man he took up cooking to satisfy his disapproving father.

In September AZN will begin broadcasting a documentary series that follows four
Asian-American high school students as they navigate the college application
process. It is the only new, original program currently scheduled for the
channel, which is disappointing. But it's a welcome attempt to tackle a subject
of broad interest, the sort of programming that could be at home on any network.
Perversely, given AZN's difficulties, that might be a step in the right
direction.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan Gabriel, the host of the risque show ''Asia Street Comedy''
on AZN TV. Formerly the International Channel, a network that tried to reach a
number of immigrant groups, AZN now exclusively devotes its programming to Asian
and Asian-American culture. (Photo by AZN Television)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As an Immigration Tide Swells, Europe Treads Water

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: Barcelona, Spain


The African and South Asian peddlers who sell counterfeit handbags and DVD's and
other sidewalk junk in the Barceloneta, a tourist-clotted neighborhood on this
city's Mediterranean beachfront, have to be nimble to stay in business. They tie
strings to the corners of the sheets on which they fussily display their goods,
so they can instantly shoulder their inventory when the police arrive. At the
first glimpse of a striding uniform they scramble, only to roost again for a few
more minutes a few yards farther down the street.

It's an indolent game of toreador and bull, but without a coup de grace. Shumil
Chowdhury, a Bangladeshi who arrived illegally a year ago, told me he had been
arrested 10 times, with the usual consequence being three days in jail, though
judges sometimes gave him a break because they realized he had no other way to
make a living, and little hope of legalizing his status.

In Barcelona, it is easy to find evidence of this halfhearted mix of tolerance
and enforcement, where compassion and toughness cohabit in a way that seems
designed to thwart an actual solution. But this attitude seems larger than this
city, or Spain.

In Spain, long a gateway to immigrants from Europe's former colonies, people
have grown accustomed to bad news on immigration. More than 11,000 Africans have
crossed to the Canary Islands this year, more than double the total for 2005,
and hundreds more have died trying.

The travails continue on land; last year in Barcelona, hundreds of immigrants
barricaded themselves in Catholic churches, threatening to starve themselves
unless they got work visas. The Catalan government, a redoubt of tolerance in a
country whose immigration policies are already among the gentlest in Europe,
relented, choosing the path of least resistance, as it has many times. A
succession of amnesties has given hundreds of thousands of immigrants at least a
theoretical path to legal status, though with bureaucratic hurdles that leave
many unable to escape the status quo.

Spain has sought a more nuanced approach on immigrants and refugees than other
countries in Europe, where underground populations are straining safety nets and
heightening the continent's age-old prickliness about strangers. Spain's
strategy -- undermining the shadow economy by smoothing legal pathways for
migration and work -- has pointed a direction for the rest of Europe. But the
immigrant tide is swelling. A desperate surge of boat people, not only in Spain
but in Italy, Greece and tiny Malta, has made it increasingly obvious that the
problem must be confronted on a broader scale.

At a conference in Morocco in early July, delegates of 58 European and African
countries pledged to attack the problem. Their agenda could have been
photocopied from a Congressional staffer's binder in Washington: border
controls, workplace enforcement, economic development south of the border,
questions of assimilation and national identity.

The participation of north and south was hailed as a breakthrough, though the
chance of success seemed dubious. The focus on immediate fixes -- more razor
wire and sea patrols -- seems as quixotic in the Mediterranean as along the Rio
Grande. The amount of development aid dangled to spur a crackdown by African
governments against would-be migrants is far less than the remittances that
African immigrants send home from Europe. And little was done about trade
policies that cripple development in the third world and thus make Europe
complicit in its own immigrant problems.

It's easy to understand the pessimism of people like Father Miguel Rodriguez, a
priest in El Raval, Barcelona's immigrant ghetto. In El Raval, where dogs wander
the narrow medieval streets below webs of fluttering laundry, Father Miguel
feeds and clothes immigrants by the thousands, asking no questions about papers
or religion. His organization is tolerated by the Catalan government and by the
society figures he shrewdly courts with ceremonial medals and other flattery.
They respond with smiles and kind words, though not much money.

Father Miguel, who will celebrate 50 years as a priest this fall, confesses to
weary skepticism about immigration. Immigrants absorb the decadent materialist
values of the affluent north, he said, without participating in its prosperity.
And the cohort of newcomers has brought its own streak of nastiness and
criminality. Father Miguel has put a steel barricade on his shabby storefront,
where thieves recently stole a printer.

But none of this has stopped the pragmatic Father Miguel from toiling as a
fixer, matching immigrants with employers who vouch, not always honestly, for
their charges.

A former colleague of Father Miguel's, the Rev. Joan Manuel Serra, who is 42 and
has been a priest for only five years, retains a younger man's belief in
goodness and progress. When I met him he was toting a backpack and shopping bag
filled with a dozen bottles of cava, the local sparkling wine, to deliver to
Father Miguel for a confirmation celebration. He, too, lamented the hole in
Europe's soul, its hostility to people from other lands, but he also marveled at
what he said was the growing willingness of Spain -- of Catalonia, anyway -- to
accept the strangers in its midst. As evidence, he noted that Catalonia was
close to electing an immigrant for president, the Socialist candidate Jose
Montilla.

Such tolerance would have been unheard of in earlier generations, Father Joan
said.

His enthusiasm was sincere, though -- as with any discussion of immigration in
Europe -- it looks a little different through an American prism. Mr. Montilla
was born in Cordoba, in the south of Spain.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Georgia, Newest Immigrants Unsettle an Old Sense of Place

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2690 words

DATELINE: PEARSON, Ga.


For generations, people here have savored the predictable cadences of small-town
living. They knew their neighbors and their neighbors' neighbors, the sweet
sound of Sunday church mornings and the rumble of tractors tilling the rich
soil.

And they knew that most outsiders would drive right through this blue-collar
community of tidy bungalows and mobile homes, without stopping or settling, on
their way to bigger, busier places.

Then Mexican immigrants started streaming in. Lured in the 1990's by abundant
agricultural work and new manufacturing jobs, the newcomers landed in a town
with one traffic light, no tortillas in the supermarket and residents who stared
openly at foreigners in a county that saw its last wave of immigrants in the
1850's.

Today, hundreds of Mexican immigrants, both illegal and legal, work in
factories, fields and stores; study in public schools; and live in neighborhoods
that were once mostly white or black. This year, as many longtime residents
anguished over the metamorphosis of their town, Serafico Jaimes opened a
Spanish-language video store right off Main Street and proudly hung a Mexican
flag alongside his American flag in the storefront window.

''This is our town now, too,'' Mr. Jaimes said.

His town sits in Atkinson County, Ga., population 8,030 and a cauldron of
demographic change. Over the past decade, hundreds of thousands of immigrants,
mostly from Mexico, have poured into the South, bypassing traditional settlement
states like New York, California and Florida in favor of far-flung towns with
thriving industries.

The surge of newcomers has helped drive the fierce debate in Congress over
immigration as well as the budding activism that burst into view this spring
when millions of people took to the streets to demand rights for immigrants.

The simmering tensions between Americans and new arrivals have played out here,
too, far from the national spotlight. A visit to Atkinson County offers an
intimate glimpse at how immigration is rapidly transforming day-to-day life in
some small Southern towns.

In 1990, Hispanics accounted for 3 percent of the residents in Atkinson County,
census data show. By 2004, Hispanics had eclipsed blacks and become the largest
minority, with 21 percent of the population. County officials, who say illegal
immigrants have been undercounted, believe Mexican immigrants and their children
may actually make up a third of residents. (Whites and blacks now account for
about 60 percent and 19 percent of the population.)

The sudden shift is upending traditional Southern notions of race and class,
leaving many whites and blacks grappling with unexpected feelings of
dislocation, loss and anger as they adjust to their community's evolving ethnic
identity.

Elton Corbitt, a white businessman whose family has lived here since the 1800's,
said immigration threatened everything that matters -- the quality of schools,
health facilities, neighborhoods, even the serene rhythms of small-town life.
And he fears that white Southerners here may ultimately become outnumbered or
irrelevant.

''The way the Mexicans have children, they're going to have a majority here
soon,'' Mr. Corbitt, 76, said.

''I have children and grandchildren,'' he said. ''They're going to become
second-class citizens. And we're going to be a third world country here if we
don't do something about it.''

Many immigrants, meanwhile, wrestle with feelings of both pride and alienation
as they deepen their roots in a town that remains ambivalent about their
presence.

Olga Contreras-Martinez was 12 when she entered the United States illegally with
her family and picked fruits and vegetables in Florida and Georgia until
settling here in 1993. Now a college graduate and an American citizen, Ms.
Contreras-Martinez feels deeply rooted here.

Yet she says she has never quite fit in, even as she slides seamlessly between
English and Spanish, relishes both cheese grits and frijoles and proudly votes
in local elections.

She still bursts into tears when she remembers how three white men challenged
the citizenship of the county's Hispanic voters during a race for county
commission in 2004, accusing one candidate of registering Mexicans who were
ineligible to vote. Mexican-Americans were ultimately allowed to go to the
polls, but the humiliation lingers.

''Because of my color, my last name, people always question me,'' said Ms.
Contreras-Martinez, 31, whose parents, uncles and grandfather all moved to
Atkinson County from Mexico.

''I call it home, but I know I'm not welcome in my own home,'' she said. ''Maybe
that feeling of home will be something that will always be missing for me.''

From 1990 to 2005, the number of Hispanics living legally or illegally in
Southern states quadrupled, jumping to 2.4 million from 562,663, according to an
analysis of census data conducted by the sociology department of Queens College
of the City University of New York. More immigrants are arriving in the United
States now than when crowded ships carried millions of Europeans into New York
in the early 1900's.

''We really haven't had this sort of rapid demographic change in 100 years,''
said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan
research group based in Washington.

No one knows how many illegal immigrants are living in Georgia. But Mr. Passel
estimates there are 350,000 to 450,000, up from about 35,000 in 1990.

Creating New Lines

  It is a profound change for this insular community in southern Georgia, just
northeast of Valdosta, where strangers have traditionally come from neighboring
counties, not foreign countries, and where memories of the last flood of
immigrants have long since faded.

In the late 1850's, hundreds of Irish immigrants moved to this area, drawn by
the promise of work on a railroad project that ultimately failed. Penniless and
stranded, many workers settled here and became farmers, according to archival
records from the Roman Catholic Church, which ministered to the laborers.

The Mexicans who arrived more than a century later found a small, sleepy place
where rocking chairs sit on front porches and roses bloom alongside rundown
trailers. Many families struggle to make ends meet. In 2000, 23 percent of
residents lived below the poverty line -- compared with 13 percent nationally
that year -- and mobile homes made up 44 percent of the housing stock, census
data show.

Before significant numbers of immigrants arrived, neighborhoods were largely
divided along racial lines. And with population growth largely stagnant,
commercial farmers who raised squash, cucumbers and tobacco, and new businesses
manufacturing industrial fabrics, mobile homes and fiberboard, were eager for
new labor.

Migrant farm workers, who trickled in in the late 1980's, spread the word,
telling relatives that Atkinson County had good jobs, good schools, open space
and a better quality of life than many crowded, crime-ridden communities in
border states.

Mr. Jaimes, the video store owner, who is 43, arrived in 1991 to pick peppers
and cut tobacco. Jose Ponce came with his family in 1995, even as he worried
about how Mexicans would fare in the American South.

''I had told myself, 'Never will I live in that state,' '' recalled Mr. Ponce,
who saw a documentary about Georgia's segregation era while he was still in
Mexico.

''But the schools were good,'' said Mr. Ponce, 54, who promotes homeopathic
medicines for a Mexican company and is raising three children here. ''There was
work wherever you looked. In terms of security for the family, it was
beautiful.''

Today, Harvey's, Pearson's lone supermarket, dedicates three aisles to mole,
tortillas, cilantro and other items directed at Hispanics, who now make up 40
percent to 50 percent of the store's customers, said Rick Merritt, the manager.

Down the road at Guthrie Motors, a used-car dealership, 60 percent of the
customers are Hispanic. At the local barbershop, where Arthur Aubrey Morgan has
clipped hair since 1945, a third of the patrons hail from Mexico.

A karate school caters to the children of Mexican workers who have prospered
enough to pay for classes. This spring, a Catholic church in a neighboring
county opened a new building to accommodate worshipers at its Spanish-language
Mass, which draws parishioners from Atkinson County.

And a half-dozen Hispanic-owned businesses have opened, including a bakery and
several small grocery stores.

Pearson, which now has about 1,900 residents, was losing population before the
Mexicans arrived. Tommy Guthrie, co-owner of Guthrie Motors, said the new
arrivals had helped his business and others to thrive. Several of his
Mexican-born customers, Mr. Guthrie added, have moved beyond his dealership
because they can now buy new cars.

Immigrants have yet to play a significant role in politics -- there are no
Hispanic elected officials and only about 100 Hispanic registered voters -- but
many believe that will change as the American-born children of new arrivals come
of age.

''I tell you something -- they're not staying down,'' said Mr. Guthrie, who is
white. ''They're moving up.''

But around the corner, at the county commission office, officials are counting
the costs, not the benefits, of immigration to Atkinson County.

County Commissioner Edwin Davis Sr. serves as the informal leader of county
efforts to stem the tide of illegal immigration. He sees the negative
consequences everywhere -- in the shabby mobile homes in some Hispanic enclaves,
the Spanish-language graffiti splashed on the shopping plaza and the Hispanic
mothers and toddlers crowding into the county's health clinic.

''They're coming here to have babies as quick as they can,'' said Mr. Davis, who
emphasized that he opposed illegal arrivals, not legal immigration. ''And we're
paying for all of those babies.''

Rising Expenses

  Mr. Davis acknowledged that homeowners had not yet felt the impact of illegal
immigration in the form of higher property taxes, though he said that might be
coming.

And police officials here disagree about whether crime has increased as
immigration has surged. Pearson's police chief says that it has not, the county
sheriff says it has, though both say that illegal immigrants driving without
licenses have become a growing problem and worry that gangs may infiltrate
Hispanic neighborhoods.

But there is no doubt that the local clinic and schools have been hit with
rising costs as immigrants and their children have turned to the county for
services.

The public school population, which was 7 percent Hispanic in 1995, was nearly
30 percent Hispanic this year. State spending for teaching English to speakers
of other languages here soared to $102,002 from $18,296 during that time. And
the clinic has hired two Spanish-speaking interpreters since 1991.

Poor patients, including illegal immigrants, receive care subsidized by the
state. And many residents complain about having to wait for flu shots behind
Spanish-speaking immigrants.

''They done took over the population,'' said Jimmy Roberts Jr., a black county
commissioner, who said his constituents complained about immigrants receiving
subsidized services. ''I don't think it's right.''

This spring, the county approved a zoning regulation prohibiting anyone from
bringing in trailers older than 20 years, a measure that some believe will raise
rents and make it harder for poor Hispanics to live here. Mr. Davis and Mr.
Roberts say the measure will protect immigrants from being forced into
substandard housing.

Mr. Davis also supported the citizens who challenged Hispanic voters in the
contested county commission race in 2004. The state attorney general is expected
to hold a hearing soon to evaluate whether immigrants were improperly registered
as voters in that race.

Meanwhile, Mr. Corbitt, the white businessman and property owner whose family
has lived here since the 1800's, proudly declares that he refuses to rent any of
his buildings to Hispanic businessmen.

And when his church, First Baptist, considered allowing a Hispanic congregation
to hold prayer meetings there, Mr. Corbitt led the opposition. ''They're
bleeding hearts,'' he said of the church members who voted him down.

Even whites who interact more frequently with the newcomers say they sometimes
feel uneasy. Tasha Davis helps run the 4H Club and adores the Hispanic students
who giggle and chatter at her desk.

But Mrs. Davis, who is not related to Edwin Davis, said the immigrants had begun
to erode the cohesiveness of the community. ''Before they come, everybody knew
everybody,'' she said. ''Now you don't know who is living in the trailer next to
you or the second trailer from you.''

Reaching Across the Divide

  Fernando Amador Trejo, 37, fumes at such talk. Mr. Amador came here as a
migrant worker 12 years ago and now owns two grocery stores, one in Pearson and
the other in a neighboring county.

Yet, he says, he has been stopped by the police without good reason and treated
with indifference or hostility by whites here. Mr. Amador has never been invited
to join the county's Chamber of Commerce, he said. And the white businessmen and
workers who work near him in the town's only shopping plaza have never formally
introduced themselves.

''They call me, 'the Mexican,' '' Mr. Amador said bitterly. ''I am Mexican. But
I have a name, too.''

But as they mingle in stores, neighborhoods and on factory floors, some
Southerners and immigrants are trying to reach across the divide.

The Chamber of Commerce, for instance, is now considering recruiting immigrant
business owners. On one recent afternoon, Mark von Waldner, the chamber
chairman, came into Mr. Jaimes' new video store for the first time and shook his
hand.

''Patron!'' he called out, trying his fledgling Spanish.

On a local Spanish-language radio program, Mr. Ponce recently challenged his
fellow immigrants to do more to connect to native-born whites and blacks. ''How
many of us have been here for 10 years and still don't speak English?'' asked
Mr. Ponce, who makes a point of greeting everyone he meets. ''That has got to
change.''

And late last year at Atkinson County High School, where students say whites,
blacks and Hispanics still socialize in largely separate worlds, Sara Silva, 16,
and Kinnon Holt, 17, decided to go on a date.

Kinnon, who is white, and Sara, the American-born daughter of Mexican
immigrants, have been together for eight months now. He has sampled his first
empanada and she has tasted her first Hot Pocket, which she gleefully dubbed
''an American burrito.''

''That's my dream, getting married, having kids, having my own little shop here,
having a farm,'' said Sara, who hopes to open a beauty salon. ''This town is
pretty much my life.''

Atkinson County is Ms. Contreras-Martinez's life, too. She lives comfortably
among white and Hispanic neighbors and has worked in so many county jobs -- once
teaching Spanish to county workers -- that many white government employees greet
her by name.

But the memory of the 2004 election still burns, as do the slights from whites
who speak disparagingly of Hispanics in her presence, assuming she cannot speak
English.

Sometimes, she says she feels as if she does not belong anywhere at all, not in
Georgia and not in Mexico.

''You're not from here; you're not from there,'' said Ms. Contreras-Martinez,
who coordinates a high school program for migrant workers. Yet when her husband
gently suggests that they move to Edcouch, Tex., the mostly Hispanic city where
he grew up, she always resists.

She has a baby boy now, the first generation of her family to be born in the
county. She dreams of watching him run in the wide open spaces of this little
town that she has grown to love, despite everything.

''I'm a Latina Grits -- a Latina girl raised in the South,'' Ms.
Contreras-Martinez said. ''So I'm still here.''

The Latino South

  This is the first article in an occasional series looking at aspects of
Hispanic life in the South. Other articles will deal with relations between
blacks and Latinos as well as economic and social issues.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE LATINO SOUTH: A County in Transition

GRAPHIC: Photos: OLGA CONTRERAS-MARTINEZ -- Coordinator of a high school program
for migrant workers
SARA SILVA -- American-born daughter of Mexican immigrants
EDWIN DAVIS SR. -- County commissioner
SERAFICO JAIMES -- Owner of a Spanish-language video store (Photographs by Oscar
Sosa for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Chart/Map: ''Tracking Growth''Percentage
point increase in the number of Hispanics in each county, from 1990HIGHEST
INCREASEClark County, Idaho +32 pct. pts.1990: 7%2005: 39%Atkinson County, Ga.
+19 pct. pts.1990: 2%2005: 21%BIGGEST DECREASECostilla County, Colo. -14 pct.
pts.1990: 77%2005: 63%Map of the United States highlighting number of Hispanics
in each county.(Sources by Queens College Department of Sociology
 Census Bureau)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Everybody Into the Melting Pot: Turning Sweet 15 in Los Angeles's Immigrant Stew

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM
REVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 907 words


''Quinceanera,'' a portrait of a Mexican-American family in Los Angeles, is as
smart and warmhearted an exploration of an upwardly mobile immigrant culture as
American independent cinema has produced. Set in Echo Park, a working-class
Latino neighborhood in the early throes of gentrification, it has a wonderfully
organic feel for the fluid interaction of cultures and generations in the
Southern California melting pot.

Without pinning smile buttons onto its characters, the film, a prize winner at
this year's Sundance festival, takes a benign look at the conflicts and crises
of three generations of a resilient family whose principal breadwinner, Ernesto
(Jesus Castanos-Chima), operates a storefront church. Illegal immigration is not
an issue here, and the film optimistically assumes that newcomers to the country
carry with them a surge of vitality.

The central character, Magdalena (Emily Rios), Ernesto's ebullient 14-year-old
daughter, is anticipating her Quinceanera, the traditional ceremony that
celebrates a girl's official passage into womanhood at 15. The movie opens with
this jubilant rite of passage for her cousin Eileen (Alicia Sixtos), who is
decked out like a princess. Magdalena has unrealistically high expectations for
her own Quinceanera. To her parents' chagrin, she dreams of being transported to
the event with her entourage in a Hummer limousine. In reality, Magdalena will
have to wear a hand-me-down: her cousin's dress, refitted.

Magdalena's future is thrown into disarray when she suddenly finds herself
pregnant by her puppyish boyfriend, Herman (J. R. Cruz), and her father throws
her out of the house in a rage. (Her pregnancy comes as a complete surprise
because it is a rare instance of a girl's conceiving while remaining technically
intact during intense petting.) But when Magdalena insists that she is still a
virgin, her father refuses to believe her. Herman's mother, fiercely ambitious
for her college-bound son, won't listen to her story and keeps him out of her
reach.

Magdalena goes to live with her great-uncle Tomas (Chalo Gonzalez), who rents
the back house on the property of Gary (David W. Ross) and James (Jason L.
Wood), a gay white yuppie couple on the forefront of the neighborhood's imminent
real estate boom. Eileen's brother Carlos (Jesse Garcia) is already staying with
Tomas, having been ousted from home by his father, who caught him cruising a gay
Web site.

Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland, the film's writing and directing team,
describe their movie in a directors' statement as a reinvention of British
kitchen-sink realism from the late 1950's and early 60's. ''A Taste of Honey,''
Tony Richardson's 1961 film adaptation of Shelagh Delaney's play about a plain,
lonely 17-year-old girl who is impregnated by a black sailor, is a particular
source of inspiration. In that film, forced to fend for herself when her
slatternly mother remarries, the girl sets up housekeeping with a gay co-worker,
who becomes the child's surrogate father.

The connection that develops between Magdalena and Carlos is similar, although
not nearly as strong. Both are watched over by the kindly, nonjudgmental Tomas,
a popular neighborhood character in his 80's, who still ekes out a living as a
street vendor of champurrado (a Mexican hot drink).

The spirit of ''Quinceanera,'' however, is quite different from that of its
black-and-white forerunner. ''A Taste of Honey'' was set in the sooty gloom of
the northern England industrial port city of Manchester, while Echo Park is a
robust, colorful neighborhood on the upswing. Magdalena and her teenage friends
are already living the American dream but on a limited budget, and their
expectations for a brighter future are high.

The film's most pointed scenes deal with Carlos's work problems at a car wash
and his emerging sexuality when he becomes the plaything of Tomas's landlords.
Gary and James are a typical upscale gay couple with a semi-open relationship
whose rules allow them to seduce Carlos together but forbid their seeing him
individually. To them, Carlos with his tattoos and slightly thuggish aura is a
sexy trophy to show off to their friends.

When Gary, who works in television but is temporarily unemployed, breaks the
rules to have afternoon trysts with Carlos, things get messy, and Carlos
foolishly begins entertaining fantasies of working in television himself.

The exiled children and their caretaker face a final blow when Gary and James
sell their cramped little rental, and they have to find new quarters. To its
credit, ''Quinceanera'' doesn't offer any magic solutions. But it believes in
its characters enough to leave you feeling that they will not only survive but
also flourish.

  The movie is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian). It has sexual situations and some strong language.

Quinceanera
Opens today in New York and Los Angeles.

Written and directed by Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland; director of
photography, Eric Steelberg; edited by Robin Katz and Clay Zimmerman; music by
Micko and Victor Bock; production designers, Denise Hudson and Jonah Markowitz;
produced by Anne Clements; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 90
minutes.

WITH: Emily Rios (Magdalena), Jesus Castanos-Chima (Ernesto), Jesse Garcia
(Carlos), Alicia Sixtos (Eileen), J. R. Cruz (Herman), Chalo Gonzalez (Tio
Tomas), David W. Ross (Gary) and Jason L. Wood (James).


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Rios plays Magdalena, who turns 15 and finds herself
pregnant. (Photo by Sony Pictures Classics)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Weighs Change To Cuba Policy

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7


With the fate of Fidel Castro still unclear, the Bush administration is looking
for ways to prevent a possible surge in illegal immigration from Cuba while
perhaps easing the way for some Cuban-Americans to bring their relatives to the
United States.

Any effort by Cubans to enter the United States illegally by boat or other means
will still be blocked, and officials are considering adopting a policy of
rejecting new or pending visa applications for anyone caught trying to sneak in.

But the administration is considering setting up a system that would speed the
immigration process for Cubans with close relatives in the United States who
have entry applications pending, according to a report on Monday by The
Associated Press that was confirmed by two federal officials.

The change would not necessarily increase the number of Cubans annually given
permission to enter the United States, which is about 22,000, but it would give
people with families here higher priority.

Before the Cubans could come to the United States, however, Cuba would have to
grant them exit permits, said the officials, who asked not to be identified
because no final policy decisions had been made.

Consideration of policy changes has been accelerated by the recent transfer of
power from Mr. Castro to his brother Raul.

The officials said another possible change would ease immigration for Cuban
doctors who have gone abroad as part of a program sponsored by the Cuban
government to send physicians to developing nations. But the United States would
block immigration for Cubans with ties to the Castro government who have been
involved in human rights abuses.

Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, which oversees
immigration enforcement matters, said that no changes had been made and that
Cubans should not see these discussions as a reason to consider trying to enter
the United States illegally.

''The administration continues to urge Cuban people to stay on the island and
work for a democratic Cuba,'' Mr. Knocke said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Group Teaches Immigrants About AIDS, Hoping to Head Off a Crisis

BYLINE: By SARAH GARLAND

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1099 words


The dozen or so people clustered together on a recent Thursday in the cavernous
meeting hall of Our Lady of Refuge Roman Catholic Church in the Bronx included
middle-aged mothers, teenage girls and former drug addicts.

Javier Soriano stood up, cleared his throat and strained to make his soft voice
fill the room as he asked the group what they knew about AIDS.

There was a long, awkward silence.

He went on, emphasizing the similarities among the strangers who had come
together -- except for one person from the Dominican Republic, all were Mexican
immigrants and all, he said, should learn about the disease, if they wanted to
avoid getting it.

''I used to work in a hospital and Mexicans would come into the emergency
room,'' he said, as some of those listening to him averted their eyes. ''They
were already dying. They didn't know why.''

Education and condoms are the best defenses against H.I.V., he continued. One of
the mothers finally spoke up, ''What if you don't have documents?'' she asked.
''Is it O.K. to go to the hospital?'' Yes, he said, and people should get tested
for H.I.V. even before they feel sick, even if they are married.

Mr. Soriano, 34, was making his pitch as director of Mexicanos Unidos, a
nonprofit group he started that seeks to educate New York's growing Mexican
community about AIDS. It is a difficult task that requires confronting fearful
people who are reluctant to even talk about the disease.

The idea for the group started several years ago while Mr. Soriano counseled
patients about their medicine at an H.I.V. clinic at
NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital and began seeing more Mexican patients,
many in advanced stages of AIDS. Since then Mr. Soriano has made it his personal
mission to combat a health crisis he fears has been building for years in New
York City, unnoticed and unchecked.

His main worry was that language and cultural barriers were preventing agencies
that have traditionally done H.I.V. outreach to Hispanics to make inroads with
newly arrived Mexican immigrants, many of whom come from villages in the states
of Puebla, Oaxaca and Guerrero and speak any of a number of local dialects.

''Hispanic providers are expected to understand these new immigrants because
they speak Spanish,'' but most health workers would probably not understand an
immigrant from Mexico who spoke another language, said Dr. Michele Shedlin, a
health professor at the University of Texas at El Paso. Dr. Shedlin led a study
issued this year about immigrants and H.I.V. risk in New York and works closely
with several New York H.I.V. organizations.

Beyond language, Mr. Soriano, who is himself from a small town in Puebla, said
limited education and taboos against using condoms also presented obstacles.

Vanessa Ramos, an administrator at the Committee for Hispanic Children and
Families, a nonprofit group that sets up an H.I.V. information table at the
Mexican Consulate twice a month, said fears of deportation among illegal
immigrants was a major barrier in reaching new arrivals.

''People are not just going to open up to you, especially when they're afraid
about their immigration status here,'' she said. ''Trusting governments take
time.''

When he arrived in the Bronx seven years ago from the Mexican city of Puebla,
Jose, a 38-year-old gay man who is here illegally, said he knew nothing about
AIDS and did not bother learning much about it. ''I thought I might be at risk,
but I didn't go ask for information because I was afraid it would be in English
and I would be ashamed,'' said Jose, speaking in Spanish to this reporter. He
did not want his last name used because of his immigration status.

He decided to see a doctor only after having flulike symptoms for six months
that were eventually diagnosed as AIDS. Even though he has gotten financial help
for medication and housing from gay advocacy organizations, Jose, who works
part-time cleaning apartments and offices, worries about getting sicker. ''I
don't have papers, so I don't have anything,'' he said. ''Even when I feel too
bad to work, I have no choice but to go.''

Although Dr. Shedlin's study, which was published last year and is being updated
this year, did not quantify the number of Mexicans in New York with H.I.V., she
said that ignorance combined with risky behavior and isolation from health
services have made the community vulnerable to the disease. A decade ago, H.I.V.
was almost nonexistent in the regions of Mexico that send many immigrants to New
York, she said. Now, according to statistics issued by the Mexican Health
Secretary, the states of Guerrero and Puebla have some of the highest rates of
H.I.V. infection in Mexico.

''Migrants are bringing H.I.V. back to villages,'' Dr. Shedlin said. ''We're
very worried about the future.''

The disease had only recently appeared in Puebla when Mr. Soriano, while in
college there, worked as a volunteer visiting patients dying of AIDS. Respecting
cultural norms, he provided emotional support but never talked about the disease
to patients and their families.

Now, Mr. Soriano, who came to New York to study and makes his living as a
wedding photographer, takes the opposite approach in his AIDS work. During his
treks around the boroughs to church basements and Mexican folkloric festivals,
he looks for people he believes have fallen through the cracks of other AIDS
prevention efforts. He searches out single men who have left their wives in
Mexico to work here and may patronize prostitutes. And he talks to Mexican women
who as Hispanics are four times more likely to die of AIDS than white women,
according to the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.

He hands out condoms and fliers he designs that combine Mexican cultural images
like the Virgin of Guadalupe with messages about AIDS. He has also linked up
with grassroots Mexican groups that may not have AIDS as part of their mission.
This month he is organizing an art fair with free H.I.V. testing at a Catholic
church in East Harlem. And the Thursday night workshop was organized by Our Lady
of Refuge's Guadalupana Committee, a group originally formed around the annual
religious celebration for the Virgin of Guadalupe.

''At first we organized for the Virgin, but then we saw the needs of the
community,'' said Ignacio Enriquez, 47, the president of the group. ''That's
when we invited Javier to come.''

While Mr. Enriquez was disappointed more people did not show up, Mr. Soriano was
encouraged. ''You have to take the message to those who will listen,'' he said.
''And you hope they'll pass it on.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Javier Soriano, the director of Mexicanos Unidos, spoke recently
at a Bronx church, part of his effort to teach immigrants about H.I.V. and AIDS.
(Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Risky Measures by Smugglers Increase Toll on Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Aug. 8


The deaths of nine people Monday in the crash of a sport utility vehicle fleeing
the Border Patrol is evidence of the growing practice of smugglers packing as
many people as they can into vehicles and driving recklessly to avoid capture.

With federal agents flooding traditional smuggling routes and thousands of
National Guard troops now helping out, smugglers have sought to get the most
people over the border in the quickest of ways. That often means cramming people
into vehicles, usually vans and S.U.V.'s, in which people have been found under
seats and the dashboard and, in larger vehicles, hidden in the gas tank.

The Yuma County Sheriff's Department said Tuesday that the three men and six
women killed were among 21 Mexicans ''stacked like cordwood'' in a Chevrolet
Suburban whose driver lost control after crossing a spike strip laid down by
Border Patrol agents.

Twelve people were injured, including five critically. The driver had made a
U-turn apparently to avoid a Border Patrol checkpoint, sped as fast as 80 miles
per hour and crashed shortly after driving over the spikes on a state highway 30
miles north of Yuma, said Maj. Leon Wilmot of the sheriff's department.

The driver, Adan Pineda, 20, was charged Tuesday with transporting illegal
immigrants, and Major Wilmot said he might face additional charges when the
investigation was complete.

Jennifer Allen, executive director of the Border Action Network in Tucson, an
advocacy group, said escalating deaths and the spate of crashes showed that the
crackdown on the border had deadly consequences that policy makers in Washington
often ignored. Ms. Allen questioned the use of the spike strip, which Border
Patrol officials said appeared to have been properly deployed and generally
causes vehicles to slow to a stop.

''The practices are lethal,'' Ms. Allen said. ''It should not be a death
sentence to flee the Border Patrol.''

The Border Patrol said it began seeing a surge in vehicle deaths in 2003, the
start of a major push in border enforcement. Deaths in motor vehicle accidents
jumped to 40 that year from 22 the previous year.

Since October, the start of the government's fiscal year, there have been 42
deaths in accidents during illegal crossings at the Mexican border, already more
than the 36 recorded all of last year.

''You are seeing smuggling organizations and the people who put their hands in
smuggling organizations with a total disregard for human life,'' said Mario
Martinez, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Washington.

The vehicles either crossed the border in rough terrain or picked up people who
had already crossed at arranged places in the field or in safe houses, Mr.
Martinez said.

Local police said the crashes often involved increasingly risky smugglers
desperate not to get caught and not to lose their payment, generally around
$3,000 a person, for delivering immigrants to their destinations.

Major Wilmot said the smugglers ''even ram into patrol cars trying to get
away.''

Figures were not immediately available for the number of injuries in such
crashes, Mr. Martinez said, but they are believed to be high. In February, a van
carrying 28 people crashed near the Mexican border in San Diego, injuring 20
people.

In April, near Sonoita, Ariz., 4 illegal immigrants died and 21 were injured
when their truck overturned.

Often, officials said, the vehicles are in disrepair, making the trip ever more
perilous.

In general, as enforcement tightens across the 2,000-mile border, smuggling by
car seems to be increasing. Arrests of illegal immigrants in the San Ysidro
section of San Diego and the Otay Mesa section of Chula Vista, together the
biggest ports of entry, have increased in recent years.

Arrests of people being smuggled in cars tripled to just under 50,000 last year
from 19,000 in 2001. This year, however, such captures have decreased to about
14,000 since October, with customs and Border Patrol officials theorizing that
smugglers have been deterred by additional screening of vehicles put in place in
January, more officers and dogs searching cars, and other efforts.

Advocates for immigrants said the deaths Monday and an overall increase in
recent years arise from immigrants making ever more desperate efforts to cross
the border.

Last year, a record 473 died along the Southwest border, most of them succumbing
to desert heat that regularly exceeds 100 degrees or drowning in rivers. This
year, 353 people have died, a 6 percent drop from the same period last year.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2006



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about dangerous
measures taken by smugglers of illegal immigrants misstated the location of the
Otay Mesa border crossing, which with the San Ysidro crossing in San Diego is
the biggest entry port in the United States. It is in San Diego, not Chula
Vista.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The sport utility vehicle that rolled over after a chase with
Border Patrol agents on Monday was crammed with illegal immigrants from Mexico.
(Photo by Terry Ketron/The Yuma Sun, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

He Who Draws First

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 128 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Critics Say Politics Is Driving Hearings on Immigration'' (news article,
Aug. 7):

Critics may rightly point out that the hearings on immigration policy scheduled
to be held around the country are really politically motivated by Republicans to
win elections in closely contested districts in November.

Instead of wringing their hands over this, Democrats should be out front holding
hearings that define the arguments in a way to promote their cause.

In the Old West, he who drew first and aimed well won.

In politics, those who first define the opposition will live.

Those who come later and aim poorly will be destroyed.

Sadly, the Democrats have yet to show they can be quick on the draw.

EMERY ROTH II
Washington Depot, Conn.
Aug. 7, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Street-Corner Solidarity

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 331 words


It may be hard to see just what immigrant day laborers, those wiry guys
scrambling for landscaping jobs amid clouds of picketing Minutemen, have in
common with union workers, the folks with American flags on their hard hats. But
the two groups are a lot closer than you might have thought -- temperamentally,
philosophically and now officially. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced yesterday that
it was forging a partnership with the National Day Laborer Organizing Network,
an association of worker centers for the men and women who have become, for
many, the public face of illegal immigration.

The groups plan to lobby for labor-friendly laws, to expose workplace abuses and
to press for comprehensive immigration reform. As union leaders tell it, it
became clear that worker centers and unions had common goals: decent wages and
job conditions and an end to unfair competition from employers who exploit
immigrant labor. It was probably also clear that anyone looking for signs of
life in the labor movement would find it in places like these grass-roots
centers -- 140 of them in 31 states, and 40 in the growing national network.

Critics may accuse unions of trying to draw a jolt of energy from a pool of
illegal workers. But the value of worker centers goes beyond such expedience. As
Washington dithers over fixing the broken immigration system, worker centers
have arisen as a modest step to removing some perversity from the status quo, in
which the benefits of illegal immigration largely flow to unscrupulous
employers.

The way to fix immigration chaos is to channel and regulate it. Worker centers
bring a shadowy system into the open, discouraging exploitation by holding
employers to account. The bold idea behind labor's embrace of immigrants is that
third-world outsourcing should stop at our borders -- that the best way to help
all workers is to start with those at the bottom. The less our street corners
resemble a chaotic job bazaar, the better off all workers will be.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration And Jobs Link Is Disputed

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 497 words


In the furious debate over immigration, advocates of reducing the inflow have
argued that the millions of foreigners who came to the United States in the last
decade took jobs from American workers. But a study released yesterday by the
Pew Hispanic Center found that there was no evidence to support that claim for
the country as a whole.

The study, based on Census Bureau data, found that 14 states with high
immigration rates after 1990, including Texas, Nevada and Georgia, also had
higher-than-average employment rates for American-born workers. Those 14 states
accounted for 24 percent of American workers.

But in eight states that had big increases in immigrants in the same period,
among them Arizona and Tennessee, employment rates for American workers were
below average. Those states were home to 15 percent of American workers.

The study concluded that there was no consistent link between surging growth in
immigration and declines in employment for Americans.

''We find no pattern,'' Rakesh Kochhar, the author of the study, said. ''We
cannot say with certainty that the growth of the foreign-born population has
either hurt or helped native-born workers.''

Even in the recession and slow recovery since 2001, there was no consistent
pattern to show that increases in immigration hurt the job prospects of American
workers across the country, the study found.

Instead, Mr. Kochhar said, the pace of economic growth in a state was more
likely to determine whether American workers lost out in competition with
immigrants. The study did not address the impact of immigration on wages.

The Pew Hispanic Center is a nonpartisan research organization in Washington
that does not make policy recommendations. In the study, Mr. Kochhar looked at
census data from 1990, 2000 and 2004 to chart the increase in immigrant
populations in the states and the employment of American-born workers in 2000
and 2004.

The study confirmed that the boom of the 90's brought surges in immigration to
states that had not seen such intense flows, including Georgia, Nevada and North
Carolina where immigrant populations increased more than 200 percent.

From 2000 to 2004, the study found, increases in immigrants coincided with high
employment rates for American workers in 27 states and the District of Columbia,
which encompassed 67 percent of workers born in the United States.

''The findings are entirely plausible, contradicting a notion that immigrants
are broadly hurting native-born workers,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at
the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, a nonpartisan group that focuses on
low-wage workers. But Mr. Bernstein cautioned against minimizing the impact on
Americans who did face a struggle against foreign workers.

''There certainly are places in this country where native-born workers are hurt
by immigrant competition,'' he said. ''The fact that it doesn't hurt in a
national sense should not lead us to dismiss local problems.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Midwest: Illinois: Three More Egyptian Students Arrested

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1551 words


Six of the 11 Egyptian exchange students who failed to show up for a college
program in Montana were in custody, after three more were arrested, officials
said. The police arrested one student, Ahmed Mohamed Mohamed Abou el-Ela, 22, at
O'Hare International Airport after he tried to check in for a flight from
Chicago to Montana using an invalid ticket, the Chicago police said. Two other
students, El Sayed Ahmed el-Sayed Ibrahim, 20, and Alaa Abd el-Fattah Ali
el-Bahnasawi, also 20, were arrested at a home in Dundalk, Md., outside
Baltimore. All six students are being held on administrative immigration
violations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 52 words


An article on Thursday about plans to subject immigration judges to annual
performance evaluations referred incorrectly to the lawyers who represent the
government in cases before them. The lawyers report to the secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security, not to the attorney general, to whom the judges
report.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Authorities Press the Search For Five Egyptian Students

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Jim Robbins contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 725 words


Federal authorities pressed their search yesterday for five Egyptian university
students who failed to appear for a summer exchange program at Montana State
University, but they said the missing students posed no security threat.

Since Wednesday, immigration agents and police officers have detained 6 of the
11 Egyptian students who vanished after they landed July 29 at Kennedy
International Airport instead of reporting to the university in Bozeman, Mont.,
for a summer program. They were to study English, American culture and Montana
history.

Another six of the students, who came from Mansoura University in the Nile Delta
in northern Egypt, did arrive at the Montana campus on time. The search for the
others intensified after the Federal Bureau of Investigation sent out a
nationwide law enforcement alert on Monday.

The failure of the students to appear set off alarms from Montana to Washington,
with Americans on edge about Islamic terrorism after a plot to bomb airplanes
was thwarted this week in Britain. But the Egyptians' tale appears to be about
young men who saw a student visa as a chance for a summer job or a footloose
lark in the United States, and who were happily unaware of how swiftly
immigration authorities would discover that they were missing.

Two of the students, Mohamed Ragab Mohamed Abd Alla and Ebrahim Mabrouk Moustafa
Abdou, both 22, turned themselves in Wednesday to the police in Manville, N.J.
Sam Aboelata, an Egyptian-American who owns a restaurant in Manville, said they
had stayed in his home for several days after they called him from the airport
asking for help.

Mr. Aboelata said that the two students were from the same village, Nasria
Gharbia, as he and that their parents had given them his name. He said they told
him they had become lost after being separated from their group in Kennedy
Airport.

''My feeling is maybe they were meaning to get lost,'' Mr. Aboelata said
yesterday in an interview. ''They were thinking they want to come and work and
make some money.''

Mr. Aboelata, who owns the Mia Sorella Italian restaurant in Manville, said the
students laughed when they heard about the F.B.I. alert.

''It's not funny,'' Mr. Aboelata said he told them. He guided them to the police
station, and persuaded the police that they had meant no harm.

''They are just innocent kids who wanted to see the American dream,'' he said.
''Unfortunately, they saw it a different way.''

One student, Ahmed Mohamed Mohamed Abou El Ela, 22, was detained Thursday by the
Chicago police at O'Hare International Airport as he was trying to book a flight
to Montana, immigration agents said. Two of the students, El Sayed Ahmed Elsayed
Ibrahim and Alaa Abd El Fattah Ali El Bahnasawi, both 20, were detained by
immigration agents at the home of a pizza shop owner in Dundalk, Md. Eslam
Ibrahim Mohamed El-Dessouki, 21, was detained in Minneapolis.

The students are being held by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement for
violating their visas and will probably be deported, officials said.

''We ran their names through all the databases and called overseas,'' said Dean
Boyd, a spokesman for the immigration agency, ''and we came up with no
indication they pose any criminal or terror threat.''

The students had paid $2,000 and the airfare from Egypt to enroll in the Montana
program, which includes a tour of Yellowstone National Park, said Annette
Trinity-Stevens, a spokeswoman for Montana State. University officials notified
immigration agents as soon as the students failed to appear in Bozeman.

Mr. Boyd said the quick notification was a sign that a system for monitoring
student visas, set up in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, was
working. Called the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, it tracks
nearly one million foreign students and exchange visitors at 10,000 schools and
colleges across the country, to confirm that they are enrolled where their visas
permit them to attend.

But immigration officials said they did not have alternative addresses in the
United States for the students who were still missing.

Ms. Trinity-Stevens said this was the first year that the exchange program had
involved students from Mansoura University. The Associated Press reported from
Cairo that officials there said they would expel the students who failed to go
to Montana.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Egyptian Students Are Arrested in Iowa

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12


Nine of the 11 Egyptian exchange students who recently entered the United States
and failed to appear at their college program in Montana were in custody after
three were arrested on Friday in Des Moines, officials said.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents tracked the three students from New
York to San Francisco to Des Moines. They were arrested without incident on
administrative immigration violations.

The three were Ahmed Refaat Saad El Moghazi El Laket, 19; Mohamed Ibrahim El
Sayed El Moghazy, 20; and Moustafa Wagdy Moustafa El Gafary, 18.

The students were to attend a monthlong program at Montana State University in
Bozeman. A group of 17 students arrived in New York on July 29. Six reported to
Bozeman on time.

After Montana State repeatedly tried to contact the missing students, it
notified officials at the Department of Homeland Security and registered the
Egyptians as no-shows in a system to track foreign students that was developed
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

None of the students are considered a terrorism risk. Immigration officials said
the last two Egyptian students were still being sought.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Even After Race Is Won, Race Is Still the Issue

BYLINE: By Kevin Coyne

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: Edison


TODAY this township's young new mayor -- born in Seoul, schooled at M.I.T. and
Columbia, the victor over a three-term incumbent -- plans to don a Hindustani
robe called a kurta and march alongside a Bollywood star in a parade observing
India Day, the 59th anniversary of the country's independence. The route is
scheduled to go past sari shops, Indian banquet halls and an apartment complex
where an arrest by a white police officer a few weeks ago spiraled into protests
that culminated with epithets like ''cockroaches'' flying outside the municipal
building.

New Jersey is a complicated place.

Edison is the sixth-largest municipality in the state, with 100,000 people
spread over more than 30 square miles of what has long been a blank canvas for
New Jersey's distinctive rendering of the American experience. It is where the
electric light was invented; where Ford, Westinghouse, Revlon and Lockheed
Martin all built, and closed, factories; where capes and split-levels flourished
along the commuter highway arteries; and where, over the last quarter-century,
so many Indian immigrants have settled that they now account for about a third
of the population, enough to help elect the first Asian mayor.

Jun Choi, 35, grew up in Edison, the son of Korean immigrants who owned several
dry cleaning businesses. He dreamed of becoming an astronaut, not the mayor.
After earning a degree in aeronautical engineering, he was lured by politics,
getting a master's in public administration and working on Bill Bradley's 2000
presidential campaign. He had never run for public office when he challenged
Mayor George A. Spadoro in the Democratic primary in spring of 2005. He shocked
everybody by winning, then won in November, too, by just 191 votes over a former
Democratic councilman running as an independent.

But tensions that started simmering last year when he was a candidate boiled
over recently into the kind of emotionally charged racial issue that is much
more difficult to discuss rationally in public than overdevelopment or cronyism,
the themes of his campaign.

On the day before last year's India Day parade along Oak Tree Road -- the
central thoroughfare of what has come to be called Little India in North Edison
and the Iselin section of neighboring Woodbridge -- the Edison police stopped a
group of volunteers who were hanging Indian flags from utility poles without a
permit. There was swearing and resistance, according to the police; excessive
force, according to the two men arrested. An internal investigation cleared the
officers. The men paid a fine for hanging the flags, and the rest of the charges
were dropped.

Then, on the Fourth of July this year, the police arrived at a sprawling
red-brick apartment complex just off Oak Tree Road to disperse a crowd that had
gathered to set off firecrackers. Rajnikant Parikh was arrested for striking an
officer; Mr. Parikh said he was assaulted by the officer. An internal
investigation cleared the police.

''I'm comfortable with the conclusion, which is that this particular officer did
not do anything wrong,'' Mr. Choi said. ''He was trying to calm a situation that
was already out of control.''

On Aug. 2, when a few dozen of Mr. Parikh's supporters rallied in front of
Edison's municipal building, they were met by a slightly smaller group of
counterprotesters, and the two sides spent a blistering afternoon shouting at
one another across a wide divide. In the middle of the demonstration, federal
immigration officials arrived to arrest Mr. Parikh on an outstanding deportation
order. He is in custody pending deportation, according to Jamie Zuieback, a
spokeswoman for the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

Mayor Choi was not at the protest; his presence, he believed, would have just
been gas on flame. He did not know of plans for Mr. Parikh's arrest, he said,
and he has ordered an internal investigation to determine whether the police had
a role in it. Police supporters plan a rally outside the municipal building at 2
p.m. on Monday.

Ms. Zuieback said the immigration agency had ''coordinated with the police
department to make the arrest.'' Dave DeFillippo, the lawyer for the Edison
Policemen's Benevolent Association, citing the investigation, would not discuss
what, if any, action the police took that day.

Two days after the protest, Mr. Choi went to Sugar Tree Plaza on Oak Tree Road,
across from the apartment complex, to survey shoppers and business owners. ''My
sense is that there wasn't any major open hostility, that it wasn't a mass,
strong, deep-seated resentment,'' he said.

Mr. Choi endured some ethnic-baiting himself during the campaign, at the hands
of the Jersey Guys on 101.5-FM, and it troubles him to think of his town
divided. ''My vision for Edison is to really make the American experiment work,
and I'll be the first to admit that it's an experiment because we haven't gotten
there yet,'' he said. ''I never said in all this that our police department is
perfect, but 30-year problems are not fixed overnight.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Closer Look At the Hispanic Population

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE
COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 166 words


National policy on immigration from the south can be fairly described as one of
passionate ambivalence. Some Americans may try angrily to seal an unsealable
border, yet many eagerly employ those who make it across.

Amid all the controversy, though, the nation is preparing to celebrate many of
its immigrants with Hispanic Heritage Month. (It starts Sept. 15.)

To mark that occasion, the Census Bureau has offered up a grab bag of
statistics, like these: as of July 1, the estimated Hispanic population was 42.7
million, nearly twice the 1990 level; by 2050, it is projected to hit 102.6
million, which would constitute 24 percent of the population. There were 1.6
million Hispanic-owned businesses in 2002, generating $222 billion in revenue.

The difficulties facing that population, though, can be seen in other bits of
data: 32.7 percent of Hispanics lacked health insurance in 2004, 21.9 percent
lived in poverty, and just 12 percent of those 25 and over had college degrees.
HUBERT B. HERRING


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DrawingGraph tracks the Hispanic population of the United States from
1995-2020. (2005 is estimated and the remaining years through 2020 are
projected)(Source by Census Bureau)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Data Shows Immigrants' Growth and Reach

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Brenda Goodman contributed reporting from Atlanta for
this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1467 words


The number of immigrants living in American households rose 16 percent over the
last five years, fueled largely by recent arrivals from Mexico, according to
fresh data released by the Census Bureau.

And increasingly, immigrants are bypassing the traditional gateway states like
California and New York and settling directly in parts of the country that until
recently saw little immigrant activity -- regions like the Upper Midwest, New
England and the Rocky Mountain States.

Coming in the heart of an election season in which illegal immigration has
emerged as an issue, the new data from the bureau's 2005 American Community
Survey is certain to generate more debate. But more than that, demographers
said, it highlights one reason immigration has become such a heated topic.

''What's happening now is that immigrants are showing up in many more
communities all across the country than they have ever been in,'' said Audrey
Singer, an immigration fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''So it's easy for
people to look around and not just see them, but feel the impact they're having
in their communities. And a lot of these are communities that are not accustomed
to seeing immigrants in their schools, at the workplace, in their hospitals.''

By far the largest numbers of immigrants continue to live in the six states that
have traditionally attracted them: California, New York, Texas, Florida, New
Jersey and Illinois.

Immigrants also continue to flow into a handful of states in the Southeast, like
Georgia and North Carolina, a trend that was discerned in the 2000 census.

But it is in the less-expected immigrant destinations that demographers find the
most of interest in the new data.

Indiana saw a 34 percent increase in the number of immigrants; South Dakota saw
a 44 percent rise; Delaware 32 percent; Missouri 31 percent; Colorado 28
percent; and New Hampshire 26 percent.

''It's the continuation of a pattern that we first began to see 10 or 15 years
ago,'' said Jeff Passel, senior research associate at the Pew Hispanic Center,
who has examined the new census data. ''But instead of being confined to areas
like the Southeast, it's beginning to spill over into some Midwestern states,
like Indiana and Ohio. It's even moving up into New England.''

Over all, immigrants now make up 12.4 percent of the nation's population, up
from 11.2 percent in 2000. That amounts to an estimated 4.9 million additional
immigrants for a total of 35.7 million, a number larger than the population of
California.

Unlike the full census, which measures all population, the American Community
Survey covers only what census officials call ''household'' population -- that
is, people living in households, rather than in ''group quarters'' like
universities, long-term care facilities and prisons.

Thus, the 16 percent increase in immigrants since 2000 refers only to the
household population. (The nation's household population in 2005 was
288,378,137, up from 273,637,296 in 2000.)

From 1990 to 2000, the total population showed a 57 percent increase in the
foreign-born population, to 31.1 million, from 19.8 million.

Still, the rise in the immigrant household population since 2000 seems to
indicate that the blazing pace of immigration seen throughout the 1990's has
continued into the first half of this decade.

And along with the increase in the overall number of immigrants, the survey
found an increase in the numbers who are not United States citizens -- an
estimated 2.4 million more since 2000. The survey did not try to distinguish
between noncitizens in the country legally, like students or guest workers, and
those in the country illegally.

Georgia and North Carolina, states that had already seen significant increases
in their immigrant population in the 1990's, continue to see rising numbers. In
Georgia, for instance, foreign-born residents accounted for 7.2 percent of the
state's population in 2000, and 9 percent in 2005.

''We've been getting very diverse down here,'' said Judy Hadley, statistical
research analyst for the Georgia Office of Planning and Budget. ''You name any
country and we've got it.''

Ms. Singer pointed out that much of the growth in immigrants was in ''suburban
areas and a lot of other places that really have no history of immigration.''

Immigration was just one area covered by the first release of data from the
American Community Survey, which also covered such demographic information as
race, age, education and marital status.

The survey detected a significant increase in the number of Americans over age
25 who hold a bachelor's degree or higher -- 27.2 percent of that population in
2005 compared with 24.4 percent in 2000.

This contributes to what has been a half-decade surge in Americans' educational
attainment. In 1940, only 4.6 percent of Americans held a bachelor's degree.

The survey found that the percentage of Americans who are 65 or over is
shrinking, from 12.6 percent of the population in 1990 to 12.4 percent in 2000
and 12.1 percent in 2005.

Partly, this is driven by the huge influx in immigrants, who tend to be of
working age or younger. But demographers caution against seeing this as a
long-term trend.

''It's more like the lull before the storm,'' said William H. Frey, a
demographer at the Brookings Institution. ''Before long, the baby boomers are
going to start getting into that age group in large numbers and the percentage
will shoot up.''

The survey is intended as an annual bolster to the bureau's constitutionally
mandated census of the country's population every 10 years. It began as a test
program in 1996 and has gradually expanded to where it can now provide detailed
data for nearly 7,000 geographic areas, including all Congressional districts
and counties or cities of 65,000 or more.

In coming months, more data from the survey will cover income, poverty and
housing.

Besides getting larger, the survey found shifts in the composition of the
nation's immigrant population.

''Essentially, it's a continuation of the Mexicanization of U.S. immigration,''
said Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration
Studies. ''You would expect Mexicans to be increasing their share in places like
Georgia and North Carolina, which already saw some increases, but they've also
increased their share of the population, and quite dramatically, in states like
Michigan, Delaware and Montana.''

More of America's immigrants, legal or not, come from Mexico than any other
country, an estimated 11 million in 2005, compared with nearly 1.8 million
Chinese and 1.4 million Indians.

Conversely, the percentage of immigrants who were born in European countries has
dropped sharply -- 29.4 percent in the last five years, demographers say,
because immigrants who came to the United States in the mid-20th century are now
dying.

A study of this data by Mr. Passel for the Pew Hispanic Center showed that while
58 percent of the immigrants who arrived in the United States since 2000 settled
in 5 of the traditional gateway states, 24 percent settled in 9 second-tier
states (including Georgia, Massachusetts and Washington) and 11 percent found
homes in 11 third-tier states, many of which have seen little immigration before
(stretching from Connecticut to Minnesota to Nevada).

And while many of those first- and second-tier states saw the largest numbers of
new arrivals from Mexico, Mr. Passel found, it was some of the third-tier states
that saw the largest percentage increases: Alabama, South Carolina, Missouri,
Kentucky, Ohio and Pennsylvania.

Two decades ago, demographers said, some 75 percent to 80 percent of new
immigrants settled in one of the half-dozen gateway states and tended to stay
there. Then, in the last 10 to 15 years, the pattern shifted and increasing
numbers began to stay in the gateways briefly and then move. Now, they say, the
pattern is that more immigrants are simply bypassing the gateways altogether.

''The biggest thing that drives immigration to specific destinations is that the
immigrant already knows someone who is living there,'' Mr. Camarota said.

The common pattern, demographers said, is that a handful of immigrants move to a
new region from one of the gateway states and put down roots. Then, once
settled, they become a pipeline for others in their family or their home village
to move directly into the same area.

''It's looking like what happens is that a person from a given community, say in
Nicaragua, is getting established,'' said Bob Coats, the governor's census
liaison in North Carolina. ''And then they send word home that they have a good
job and other people -- neighbors, family members -- come to join them and you
have these enclaves of people from one country, one region, becoming established
in the same area.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of immigrants and their supporters marching for
expanded rights on May 1 in Los Angeles. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York
Times)(pg. A17)Chart/Map: ''The Foreign-Born Population''Foreign-born as a
percentage of total population, 2005Map of the United States highlights the
precantage of foreign-born in each state.Map tracks the change in foreign-born
population, 2000 to 2005 (in percentage points).(Sources by Census Bureau
Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. A17)Chart/Map: ''Shifts in New
York''Much of the growth in the area's immigrant population came in the suburbs.
.Map highlighting portions of New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut tracks the
change (either increases or decreases) in foreign-born population from 2000 to
2005 in percentage points(Sources by Census Bureau
 Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Swell Numbers In and Near City

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words


Immigrants have continued to surge into metropolitan New York since 2000,
according to census figures released today, and that increase, combined with
high birth rates, has elevated the foreign-born and their children in New York
City itself to fully 60 percent of the population. The rate of change was even
more pronounced in the 24 suburban counties around the city, where a record 20
percent of the residents are now born abroad.

The figures, while showing that the city's gains from immigration were not
nearly as marked as they were in the 1990's, are nonetheless striking in their
detail and magnitude.

In the city, the number of people who identified themselves as Mexicans, here
legally or not, soared 36 percent in five years, and not merely as a consequence
of improved counting. More than half the residents of Queens and the Bronx do
not speak English at home. Nearly one in three black residents in New York City
was born abroad.

The trends are reported in the American Community Survey, a new annual version
of the federal Census Bureau's long-form questionnaire designed to capture the
nation's demographic profile in a more timely moving picture, rather than a
once-a-decade snapshot.

That moving picture is changing most in the counties just outside New York City.
In New Rochelle, where the number of Mexicans rose to nearly 12,000 from under
7,000 in five years, the share of foreign-born residents swelled to 32 percent
of the population, up from 27 percent. In Danbury, Conn., a developing magnet
for Asian immigrants, the proportion of Asians doubled, to 11 percent of all
residents in the state's seventh-largest city.

Among children younger than 15, white residents who are not Hispanic have become
a minority in the metropolitan area, an indication that within just a few years
the New York region will become the first large metropolitan area outside the
South or West where non-Hispanic whites are a minority.

Some of the developments in the city over the first half of the decade amounted
to modest but significant reversals. In Manhattan and, more recently, Brooklyn,
the number of whites actually increased, and the number of blacks in the city,
primarily native-born, declined, probably for the first time since the Civil
War.

Considered most broadly, the overall population of the city appeared to grow,
but more slowly than in the 1990's. Still, nearly a half million new immigrants
have poured into the city since 2000, surprising some experts who estimated that
the influx had slowed considerably after 9/11.

The latest figures indicate, though, that many of those new arrivals may have
chosen to go to the suburbs outside the city, suggesting that the melting pot
was, in effect, overflowing. The total number of foreign born residents in the
city, in fact, increased by only 60,000 over five years, or 2 percent.

City officials were heartened by the number arriving from overseas and said the
departure of many of them to the suburbs and beyond could be interpreted in two
ways. ''Yes, the ebb of people has become more substantial over time,'' said
Joseph J. Salvo, director of the population division of New York's Department of
City Planning. ''You have enhanced mobility among the foreign-born where they're
picking up and going to other places quicker.''

On the other hand, he said: ''We may be reaching a point where the city's
population gets to be so large you can't keep adding. The pressure on housing
and our neighborhoods is still on.''

The survey detected a number of other trends.

''Manhattan is becoming a specialty location -- the home and workplace of highly
educated, highly skilled and highly paid professionals,'' said Andrew A.
Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College of the City University of New York,
''and you also have the Manhattanization of traditional neighborhoods in Queens
and Brooklyn.''

In the city, where the proportion of immigrants reached nearly 37 percent,
inching toward the record 40 percent registered early in the 20th century, Mr.
Salvo estimated that the number of foreign-born and their children ''is easily
in excess of 60 percent, maybe even two-thirds.''

The latest American Community Survey also revealed aspects of how New Yorkers
live and what they have achieved.

New York ranked fourth among the nation's 15 largest cities in the share of
adults with at least a bachelor's degree -- 32.2 percent, up from 26 percent
just five years earlier -- after San Francisco, San Diego and San Jose, Calif.
In Manhattan the proportion neared 58, placing it fifth among the nation's major
counties.

There were vast disparities, however, in educational attainment. Among whites,
43 percent have a bachelor's or graduate degree. About 42 percent of Asians, 21
percent of blacks and only 14 percent of Hispanic New Yorkers do.

Among the nation's 15 largest cities, New York ranked second to San Francisco
for the oldest median age (35.8), and third after San Francisco and Philadelphia
in the proportion of people 65 and over (11.9 percent).

About a million households in the city are occupied by people living alone,
about the same number as married couples living together. In Manhattan, which
generally ranks lowest among the nation's counties in household size, just about
half the households are made up of people living alone.

New York ranks first in the proportion of men and women -- 35.2 percent and 30.2
percent, respectively -- who have never married. The median age for first
marriages by women is highest in Connecticut, at 27.5, and for men in New York,
at 29.3. New York State also has the lowest proportion of households composed of
married couples, 45 percent. Barely half the children in the city, 53 percent,
are being raised by a married couple.

As ever, within the borders of the city there were great differences. In
Manhattan, where the number of black and Hispanic residents declined, married
couples with children living at home made up about 10 percent of households, but
the rate is 27 percent on Staten Island. In the Bronx, more than half the
families with children are headed by women.

The census counted more American Indians, about 33,000, than in any other city.
Chinese is spoken by more than 350,000 New Yorkers, Italian by 103,000, Yiddish
by 77,000.

While the number of Puerto Ricans in the city declined slightly, they remain the
largest group among Hispanics, with 787,000. Dominicans, who number 532,000 --
the largest number among foreign-born -- are catching up with Puerto Ricans.
More city residents still identify their ancestry as Italian than any other
group, but West Indians are closing.

In New Jersey, the number of immigrants grew to 19.5 percent, the third-highest
proportion of any state after California and New York. The number of
metropolitan area suburbanites claiming West Indian ancestry soared 16 percent.

Officials warned against making precise comparisons with the 2000 census, since
this survey uses a different method of sampling and is intended to measure
characteristics rather than to provide an actual population count. Also, the
2005 sample did not include people living in group quarters, such as prisons,
nursing homes or mental institutions. In 2000, the census counted over 180,000
residents of those facilities in the city.

This summer and fall, the Census Bureau will release results on income, poverty
and housing from the 2005 survey.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Foreign-Born Population''The number of immigrants in the
New York metropolitan area has risen by nearly 400,000 since 2000, with most of
the growth in the suburbs.Map of New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut
highlighting percentage of the population that is foreign born, 2005.(Source by
Census Bureau
 Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 18, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Mexico: Arrest Of Suspect In Border Killings

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 108 words


A man suspected of participating in the rapes and killings of at least 10 women
in a border city where more than 100 young women have been killed since 1993 has
been arrested, American officials said. The United States ambassador to Mexico,
Tony Garza, called the arrest of the suspect, Edgar Alvarez Cruz, on immigration
violations in Denver ''a major break'' in the investigation into the unsolved
deaths in Ciudad Juarez, across from El Paso. The bodies of most of the victims
were dumped in the desert outside Ciudad Juarez. Mexico's attorney general,
Daniel Cabeza de Vaca, said Mr. Alvarez Cruz had been under investigation but
fled the country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 19, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Home for a Group of Artists in Search of a Family

BYLINE: By SARAH GARLAND

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 769 words


At first glance, it could have been any art opening in any converted warehouse
in any hip neighborhood in the city. Dressed in ragged T-shirts, homemade
jewelry and horn-rimmed glasses, the crowd at a nonprofit art gallery in Queens
called Local Project sipped Coronas while contemplating a sculpture made of
Band-Aids and a video installation of a Muslim artist shoving bacon into his
mouth.

But a closer look at the people gathered at Local Project in Long Island City
one recent Saturday night revealed a different crowd than the sort usually
assembled at art galleries in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, or the Lower East Side.

Salvador Rebolledo, 36, who works at a restaurant in Midtown to support his wife
and two children, chatted with one of the artists, Irma Bohorquez-Geisler, 53,
who holds a doctorate in entomology from Oxford, as they stood near a wall of
paintings depicting the auras of subway riders. They discovered they were from
the same state in Mexico.

Nearby, Vicencio Marquez, 32, an immigrant from Oaxaca who works 10 hours a day
at a deli, interviewed Ava Paloma Mahieu, an artist from Staten Island and the
curator of the exhibition that focused on spirituality and religion. He was
making a documentary of the event.

''This place is open for everybody; any kind of person can have access,'' said
Mr. Marquez, an aspiring filmmaker who says that before coming to New York 16
years ago he ''didn't even know what a gallery was.''

That is exactly what the small group of young Latin Americans who founded the
space say they had in mind three years ago when they converted a labyrinth of
narrow warehouse halls attached to a carpenter's workshop into a gallery.

Mr. Marquez described Local Project as a place where otherwise separate worlds
intersect.

Construction workers and deli cooks from Latin America without green cards
mingle with conceptual artists, professional photographers and filmmakers, and
sometimes they are one and the same.

''It was never supposed to feel like an institution,'' said Brenda Campos, 28,
an immigrant from Mexico and one of the gallery's five founders. ''It was all
these people who needed a family. We have day laborers and college-educated
people and cooks, but we all share the experience of being away from home.''

Ms. Campos studied filmmaking and photography in Guadalajara, Mexico, before
moving to New York four years ago to teach illegal immigrants at Asociacion
Tepeyac, a nonprofit Mexican organization.

There, she met Carolina Penafiel, 26, a freelance photographer and baby sitter
from Colombia who was also teaching classes at Asociacion Tepeyac.

Ms. Penafiel had been holding regular parties in the warehouse, where she had
been living, and talked with the owner about turning the space into an art
gallery.

''I never knew about art,'' Ms. Penafiel said. ''I never even knew what a frame
was. We just said, 'Let's paint the walls.' ''

Those walls were covered with a selection of works by artists from Ecuador, the
Dominican Republic, Chile, Argentina, Mexico and the United States. Ms. Campos
and Ms. Penafiel invited the people who had been coming to the parties at the
warehouse and also invited their students from Asociacion Tepeyac, including Mr.
Marquez.

The eclectic scene grew larger and ever more eclectic as they asked new groups
to join and exhibit their works, including a group of Eastern European artists
without green cards and members of Spanic Attack, a collective of mostly Puerto
Rican intellectuals based in the South Bronx.

The gallery also offered photography classes that were advertised in
Spanish-language newspapers, which drew people like Elmer Gutierrez, 47, a
refugee from the civil war in Colombia who now works at a Queens bakery, and Mr.
Rebolledo, who recently exhibited some of his own photography at the Queens
Museum.

Renzo Ortega, a painter and sculptor from Peru who has a studio nearby, became a
Local Project board member after attending several openings and concerts. ''I've
gone to other galleries, and I didn't feel what I feel here,'' he said. ''It's
more than the art.''

A regular visitor at Local Project events was Julio Ortega, a Mexican immigrant
and an amateur photographer, who was struck and killed in an automobile accident
as he walked across the Queensboro Bridge in March.

After his death, a rock concert with his friends and relatives was held in his
honor at Local Project.

And every Christmas the gallery serves a big dinner for many immigrants who
cannot make it home. ''We have the warmth of family,'' Ms. Penafiel said. ''I
don't think you find that everywhere.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Irma Bohorquez-Geisler, left, and Ava Paloma Mahieu, doing a
flamenco step, at Local Project, a nonprofit art gallery in Long Island City,
Queens. (Photo by Piotr Redlinski for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistanis Find U.S. an Easier Fit Than Britain

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1609 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 18


The stretch of Devon Avenue in North Chicago also named for Muhammad Ali Jinnah,
the founder of Pakistan, seems as if it has been transplanted directly from that
country. The shops are packed with traditional wedding finery, and the spice mix
in the restaurants' kebabs is just right.

Similar enclaves in Britain have been under scrutiny since they have proved to
be a breeding ground for cells of terrorists, possibly including the 24 men
arrested recently as suspects in a plot to blow up airliners flying out of
London.

Yet Devon Avenue is in many ways different. Although heavily Pakistani, the
street is far more exposed to other cultures than are similar communities in
Britain.

Indian Hindus have a significant presence along the roughly one-and-a-half-mile
strip of boutiques, whose other half is named for Gandhi. What was a heavily
Jewish neighborhood some 20 years ago also includes recent immigrants from
Colombia, Mexico and Ukraine, among others.

''There is integration even when you have an enclave,'' said Nizam Arain, 32, a
lawyer of Pakistani descent who was born and raised in Chicago. ''You don't have
the same siege mentality.''

Even so, members of the Pakistani immigrant community here find themselves
joining the speculation as to whether sinister plots could be hatched in places
like Devon (pronounced deh-VAHN) Avenue.

The most common response is no, at least not now, because of differences that
have made Pakistanis in the United States far better off economically and more
assimilated culturally than their counterparts in Britain. But some
Pakistani-Americans do not rule out the possibility, given how little is
understood about the exact tipping point that pushes angry young Muslim men to
accept an ideology that endorses suicide and mass murder.

The idea of a relatively smaller, more prosperous, more striving immigrant
community inoculating against terror cells goes only so far, they say.

''It makes it sound like it couldn't happen here because we are the good
immigrants: hard-working, close-knit, educated,'' said Junaid Rana, an assistant
professor of Asian-American studies at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign and an American-born son of Pakistani immigrants. ''But we are
talking about a cult mind-set, how a cult does its brainwashing.''

Yet one major difference between the United States and Britain, some say, is the
United States' historical ideal of being a melting-pot meritocracy.

''You can keep the flavor of your ethnicity, but you are expected to become an
American,'' said Omer Mozaffar, 34, a Pakistani-American raised here who is
working toward a doctorate in Islamic studies at the University of Chicago.

Britain remains far more rigid. In the United States, for example, Pakistani
physicians are more likely to lead departments at hospitals or universities than
they are in Britain, said Dr. Tariq H. Butt, a 52-year-old family physician who
arrived in the United States 25 years ago for his residency.

Nationwide, Pakistanis appear to be prospering. The census calculated that mean
household income in the United States in 2002 was $57,852 annually, while that
for Asian households, which includes Pakistanis, was $70,047. By contrast, about
one-fifth of young British-born Muslims are jobless, and many subsist on
welfare.

Hard numbers on how many people of Pakistani descent live in the United States
do not exist, but a forthcoming book from Harvard University Press on charitable
donations among Pakistani-Americans, ''Portrait of a Giving Community,'' puts
the number around 500,000, with some 35 percent or more of them in the New York
metropolitan area. Chicago has fewer than 100,000, while other significant
clusters exist in California, Texas and Washington, D.C.

Pakistani immigration to the United States surged after laws in the 1960's made
it easier for Asians to enter the country. Most were drawn by jobs in academia,
medicine and engineering. It was only in the late 1980's and 90's that
Pakistanis arrived to work blue-collar jobs as taxi drivers or shopkeepers, said
Adil Najam, the author of the book on donations and an international relations
professor at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.

In Britain, by comparison, the first Pakistanis arrived after World War II to
work in factories. Many were fleeing sectarian strife in Kashmir -- a lingering
source of resentment -- and entire communities picked up and resettled together.
This created Pakistani ghettos in cities like Bradford and Birmingham, whereas
in the United States immigrants tended to be scattered and newcomers forced to
assimilate. The trends intensified with time.

A decade ago, for example, a Pakistani in Chicago who wanted to buy halal meat,
from animals butchered in a religiously sanctioned manner, could find it only on
Devon Avenue. Now halal butchers dot the city and its suburbs.

Thousands of immigrants and their American-born offspring still flock to Devon
Avenue because of its restaurants and traditional goods, including wedding saris
for women and long, elaborate shirts and gilded slippers with curled toes for
men. The avenue's half-dozen rudimentary mosques have a reputation for being
more conservative than those elsewhere in Chicago, with the imams emphasizing an
adherence to Muslim tradition.

''They go to an area where they have a feeling of nostalgia, and even
psychologically it is important for immigrant communities to feel that their
home country is represented,'' said Dr. Butt, an early member of the Association
of Physicians of Pakistani Descent of North America, one of the oldest immigrant
organizations here.

But immigrants are not mired in the Devon Avenue neighborhood; many move out
once they can afford better. Unlike the situation in Britain, there is no
collective history here of frustrated efforts to assimilate into a society where
a shortened form of Pakistani is a stinging slur, and there are no centuries-old
grievances nursed from British colonial rule over what became Pakistan.

Where such comparisons fail, however, is in providing a model to predict why
some young Muslims turn to violence, although no religion is immune. In the
United States there have been a few cases of young Pakistani men being arrested
or tried in terror plots, in Atlanta and in Lodi, Calif., for example.

Ifti Nasim, a former luxury car salesman turned poet and gay rights advocate,
greets a visitor with a slim volume of his works. The cover photograph shows him
wearing a bright orange dress, ropes of pearls and a long blond wig. He has been
in the United States since 1971.

Some shoppers crowding the sidewalks on Devon Avenue greet Mr. Nasim warmly,
telling him they listen to his radio show or read his columns in a local
Urdu-language newspaper. In Pakistan, Mr. Nasim says, his flamboyance would not
be tolerated, but here he calls his acceptance ''the litmus test of the
society.''

Like many, however, he has moments of doubt, saying, ''Pakistani society in
Chicago has made a smooth transition so far, but you never know.''

A more important factor in determining who becomes a militant is most likely the
feeling of being stigmatized as less than equal, community activists say, noting
that such discrimination remains far more common in Britain. It is probably
compounded by the fact that violence against Muslims in Iraq, Afghanistan,
Palestine and Lebanon feels so much closer there, they say.

Overt bigotry is rarer here, but it exists. For instance, Mohamed Hanis, a taxi
driver who is a Pakistani immigrant, said that on the Friday night after the
terror alert in London, a young white man climbed into his cab.Noticing the name
Mohamed, the man threatened to report that Mr. Hanis had admitted to supporting
terrorist attacks unless he could get a free ride. Instead, Mr. Hanis hailed a
police officer who forced the passenger to pay.

Mr. Mozaffar, the University of Chicago student, said he had grown up with
revered Muslim role models like Muhammad Ali and Kareem Abdul-Jabar, but now
there were none. He teaches religion classes for young Muslims, and the question
inevitably arises whether the creed justifies using violence for political or
religious aims. He emphasizes that Islam forbids killing innocent civilians, and
community members here have said they will not tolerate a mosque prayer leader
advocating violence.

Initial reports about the British suspects quoted neighbors as saying that some
of the men had become more religious, adopting Islamic dress and praying five
times a day. That kind of transformation happens in Chicago, too, but the idea
that any such change should automatically arouse suspicion rather than be
considered teenage rebellion or a religious conversion makes community activists
bridle.

For the past eight years, Abdul Qadeer Sheikh, 46, has managed Islamic Books N
Things on Devon Avenue, which sells items like Korans, prayer rugs and Arabic
alphabet books. He says that since Sept. 11, he has seen signs of the bias that
has existed in Britain for decades developing here. He describes a distinctive
fear of being seen as Muslim, even along Devon Avenue. Before, a good 70 percent
of the women who came into his shop were veiled, he said. Now the reverse is
true, and far fewer men wear traditional clothes.

The attitude of the American government in adopting terms like ''Islamic
fascists'' and deporting large numbers of immigrants, he said, makes Muslims
feel marked, as if they do not belong here. ''The society in the United States
is much fairer to foreigners than anywhere else,'' he said, ''but that mood is
changing.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pakistani immigrants and their American-born children flock to
Devon Avenue in Chicago because of its traditional restaurants and goods. (Photo
by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Devon Avenue is the center of Chicago's Pakistani community. A sign on the door
to a bookstore alerts customers that the shop is closed for prayer.
 Businesses on Devon Avenue in Chicago, like an Islamic bookstore, left, and a
shop selling traditional clothing, attract a large Pakistani clientele. The
avenue is also home to a half-dozen conservative mosques. (Photographs by
Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Map of Chicago highlighting
Devon Avenue. (pg. A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words


THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in
New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new
immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing
across the region, new census data show.

According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of
immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to
2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same
period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city,
compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.

''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation,
and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a
Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''

Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in
the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated,
among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to
draw highly skilled and educated workers.

Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region.
Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that
include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New
York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.

So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old
working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing
friction with some residents over crowded housing.

And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in
tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in
some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading
downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.

The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the
population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2
percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents
who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent
from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.

Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with
skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills
struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and
housing that is hard to afford.

''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban
economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't
producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have
increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and
affordable housing.''

In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York,
New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000
to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos
and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000.

Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at
about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.

The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes.
The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big
geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of
about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community
level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school
enrollments and previous censuses.

The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in
central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a
center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of
foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In
Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern
Westchester.

In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of
Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer
and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.

In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of
Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern
Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury
Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the
large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and
Passaic, stopped growing or declined.

Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find
affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the
suburbs.

So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.

''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot
of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in
Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities
in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex
County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who
coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.

''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to
say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.

In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily
dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by
two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the
Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing,
and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered
widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable.

''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said.

The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great
conflict.

Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The
mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the
family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and
Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as
a working-class community.

''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over
and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around,
blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''

The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990,
according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more
visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the
aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and
move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.

Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and
the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the
borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the
borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of
its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed
harassment.

The borough's increasing Hispanic population fills a void in the job market, the
mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the
restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better
jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''

Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing.

''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they
have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works
with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para
Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people
there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''

James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said
immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs
because there is little public transportation.

''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live
doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''

The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and
taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an
ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their
legal status.

''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have
to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of
Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and
plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in
the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''

Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were
typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.

''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their
numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''

The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers
to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County
has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30
percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in
Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English.

The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on
staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be
more insular and less involved in the schools.

''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc
F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District
on Long Island.

But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants
have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.

''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and
the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge
said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''

Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities,
including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed
downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful
one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and
they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her
classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher
of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y.
Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants,
including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by
Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel
Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language
program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are
repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a
check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank
J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photographs by Jill C.
Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map: ''Percent change
in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005''Graph tracks top 25 countries of birth
for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for 2000 and
2005.(Sources by Census Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words


THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in
New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new
immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing
across the region, new census data show.

According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of
immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to
2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same
period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city,
compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.

''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation,
and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a
Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''

Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in
the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated,
among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to
draw highly skilled and educated workers.

Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region.
Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that
include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New
York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.

So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old
working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing
friction with some residents over crowded housing.

And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in
tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in
some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading
downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.

The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the
population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2
percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents
who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent
from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.

Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with
skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills
struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and
housing that is hard to afford.

''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban
economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't
producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have
increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and
affordable housing.''

In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York,
New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000
to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos
and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000.

Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at
about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.

The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes.
The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big
geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of
about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community
level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school
enrollments and previous censuses.

The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in
central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a
center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of
foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In
Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern
Westchester.

In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of
Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer
and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.

In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of
Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern
Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury
Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the
large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and
Passaic, stopped growing or declined.

Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find
affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the
suburbs.

So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.

''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot
of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in
Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities
in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex
County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who
coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.

''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to
say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.

In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily
dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by
two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the
Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing,
and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered
widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable.

''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said.

The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great
conflict.

Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The
mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the
family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and
Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as
a working-class community.

''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over
and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around,
blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''

The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990,
according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more
visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the
aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and
move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.

Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and
the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the
borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the
borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of
its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed
harassment.

The borough's increasing Hispanic population fills a void in the job market, the
mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the
restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better
jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''

Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing.

''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they
have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works
with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para
Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people
there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''

James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said
immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs
because there is little public transportation.

''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live
doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''

The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and
taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an
ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their
legal status.

''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have
to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of
Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and
plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in
the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''

Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were
typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.

''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their
numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''

The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers
to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County
has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30
percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in
Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English.

The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on
staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be
more insular and less involved in the schools.

''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc
F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District
on Long Island.

But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants
have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.

''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and
the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge
said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''

Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities,
including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed
downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful
one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and
they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her
classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher
of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y.
Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants,
including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by
Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel
Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language
program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are
repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a
check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank
J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photographs by Jill C.
Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map tracks percent
change in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005 and the top 25 countries of
birth for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. (Sources by Census
Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words


THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in
New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new
immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing
across the region, new census data show.

According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of
immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to
2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same
period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city,
compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.

''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation,
and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a
Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''

Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in
the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated,
among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to
draw highly skilled and educated workers.

Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region.
Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that
include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New
York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.

So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old
working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing
friction with some residents over crowded housing.

And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in
tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in
some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading
downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.

The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the
population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2
percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents
who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent
from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.

Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with
skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills
struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and
housing that is hard to afford.

''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban
economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't
producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have
increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and
affordable housing.''

In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York,
New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000
to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos
and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000.

Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at
about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.

The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes.
The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big
geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of
about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community
level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school
enrollments and previous censuses.

The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in
central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a
center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of
foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In
Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern
Westchester.

In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of
Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer
and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.

In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of
Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern
Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury
Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the
large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and
Passaic, stopped growing or declined.

Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find
affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the
suburbs.

So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.

''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot
of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in
Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities
in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex
County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who
coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.

''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to
say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.

In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily
dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by
two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the
Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing,
and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered
widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable.

''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said.

The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great
conflict.

Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The
mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the
family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and
Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as
a working-class community.

''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over
and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around,
blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''

The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990,
according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more
visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the
aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and
move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.

Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and
the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the
borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the
borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of
its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed
harassment.

The borough's increasing Hispanic population fillsa void in the job market, the
mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the
restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better
jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''

Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing.

''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they
have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works
with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para
Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people
there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''

James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said
immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs
because there is little public transportation.

''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live
doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''

The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and
taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an
ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their
legal status.

''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have
to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of
Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and
plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in
the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''

Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were
typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.

''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their
numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''

The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers
to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County
has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30
percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in
Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English.

The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on
staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be
more insular and less involved in the schools.

''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc
F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District
on Long Island.

But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants
have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.

''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and
the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge
said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''

Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities,
including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed
downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful
one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and
they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her
classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher
of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y.
Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants,
including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by
Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel
Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language
program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are
repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a
check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank
J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photo by Phil Marino for
The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map tracks
percent change in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005 and the top 25 countries
of birth for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. (Sources by
Census Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The New Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words


THE number of immigrants has increased five times as fast in the suburbs as in
New York City since 2000, reversing historical migration patterns as new
immigrants increasingly bypass the city in search of jobs and affordable housing
across the region, new census data show.

According to figures released this month by the Census Bureau, the number of
immigrants living in the region's suburbs grew by about 225,000 from 2000 to
2005, compared with an increase of about 44,000 in the city during the same
period. During the 1990's, the number of immigrants grew by 788,000 in the city,
compared with 632,000 in the suburbs, the data show.

''The inner city has shifted away from being the big center for job creation,
and now jobs are being created in the suburbs,'' said Douglas S. Massey, a
Princeton University demographer. ''Immigrants have followed.''

Job opportunities have also driven another striking trend that is apparent in
the new census numbers: a sharp increase in the ranks of the college educated,
among nonimmigrants and immigrants alike, a signal that the region continues to
draw highly skilled and educated workers.

Together, these developments are helping to stratify the metropolitan region.
Scattered pockets swell with immigrants in unprecedented numbers. But areas that
include hot housing markets and gentrifying neighborhoods inside and outside New
York City have declined in foreign-born populations, the new numbers show.

So the immigrants are settling in places like Bound Brook, N.J., an old
working-class community on the Raritan River in Somerset County, causing
friction with some residents over crowded housing.

And the influx of newcomers has created a demand for additional services in
tax-strapped municipalities and strained some local school districts. But in
some of these communities the increase in immigrants has revived fading
downtowns and buoyed crucial parts of the local economy.

The new data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey show that the
population of New York's suburbs is now 21.3 percent foreign born, up from 19.2
percent in 2000 and 14.1 percent in 1990. The proportion of the city's residents
who are foreign-born grew only slightly in the last five years, to 36.6 percent
from 35.9 percent, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn it declined.

Demographers say that some of the suburban wave is made up of immigrants with
skills, like engineers and scientists. But mostly it is workers with few skills
struggling to find accommodation in a place that has lots of opportunity, and
housing that is hard to afford.

''It's a bimodal phenomenon -- the technology requirements of the suburban
economy have needed scientists and engineers the United States wasn't
producing,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''At the same time you have
increasingly lesser-educated immigrants moving for economic opportunity and
affordable housing.''

In raw numbers, the biggest increases in foreign-born population in New York,
New Jersey and Connecticut in the last five years are among Indians, up 82,000
to 333,000, and Mexicans, up 74,000 to 320,000. The number of Chinese, Filipinos
and Ecuadoreans has also grown substantially since 2000.

Dominicans remain the largest foreign-born contingent in the three states at
about 500,000, but their numbers have declined slightly in the last five years.

The new data provide a picture of suburban immigration painted in broad strokes.
The American Community Survey provides information only for large groups and big
geographic areas -- Nassau County, for instance, is divided into 12 areas of
about 100,000 people each. So it is not clear what is happening at the community
level, although some inferences can be made by looking at data like school
enrollments and previous censuses.

The fastest growing areas for immigrant populations on Long Island were in
central Brookhaven, where Hispanics have been settling, and in Hicksville, a
center for South Asian immigration. In both areas, the population of
foreign-born residents has grown more than 35 percent in the last five years. In
Connecticut, areas outside New Haven showed similar gains, as did northeastern
Westchester.

In New Jersey, the fastest growth came in Newark, in the southern parts of
Bergen and Somerset Counties, and in the suburban periphery of Hunterdon, Mercer
and Sussex Counties, which all increased 35 percent or more as well.

In some areas, the foreign-born population has declined: on the eastern end of
Long Island, in northern Oyster Bay and in the Five Towns in southwestern
Nassau. In New Jersey, a broad area in central Monmouth County north of Asbury
Park has lost 10 percent of its immigrant population in five years, and the
large immigrant contingents in a number of urban areas, including Paterson and
Passaic, stopped growing or declined.

Demographers say the pattern illustrates the immigrants' struggle to find
affordable housing as they seek access to the economic opportunities in the
suburbs.

So the housing search takes them to places like Bound Brook.

''You do have a number of older boroughs, such as Bound Brook, that have a lot
of older housing,'' Dr. Hughes said. He said village centers, like the one in
Peapack-Gladstone, also in Somerset County, sometimes have housing opportunities
in small apartments and above commercial strips. In Woodbridge, in Middlesex
County, large apartment complexes have become centers for immigrants, who
coalesce around earlier migrants from the same culture or geography.

''There are little pockets of places, although it's not high-quality housing to
say the least,'' Dr. Hughes said.

In many places, immigrants are turning single-family houses into multifamily
dwellings. ''In some cases they are splitting up single-family houses for use by
two or three families,'' said Seth Forman, the acting executive director of the
Long Island Regional Planning Board. Long Island has little multifamily housing,
and the practice of crowding multiple tenants into one home is considered
widespread, though reliable figures are unavailable.

''It's being done, although we don't really know how much,'' Dr. Forman said.

The practice occurs in the rest of the region as well, and causes great
conflict.

Bound Brook is one of the oldest settlements in New Jersey, dating to 1681. The
mayor, Frank J. Ryan, grew up there, delivering milk in the 1940's for the
family business. Since World War I, he said, several generations of Italian and
Polish families have found work in nearby industries, and the place prospered as
a working-class community.

''The workers came over from Italy as stonemasons, and their relatives came over
and settled in Bound Brook,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''There was a lot of work around,
blue-collar work. There was always plenty.''

The community has had a significant Hispanic population since at least 1990,
according to the census. But Mr. Ryan said the Hispanic immigrants became more
visible after floods from Hurricane Floyd devastated the area in 1999. In the
aftermath, many people decided to sell their homes for what they could get and
move on, and the housing began to fill rapidly with immigrants, he said.

Borough housing inspectors made nighttime inspections with police officers, and
the United States Justice Department responded with a lawsuit against the
borough for unfair housing practices that was settled in 2004. Mr. Ryan said the
borough had done nothing wrong, but Bound Brook agreed to close monitoring of
its housing inspections and paid damages to some of those who claimed
harassment.

The borough's increasing Hispanic population fills a void in the job market, the
mayor said. ''They work as laborers, in factories, or they clean the
restaurants,'' he said. ''They've been moving up the ladder and getting better
jobs, but as far as the housing, it's still two or three families to a home.''

Advocates say immigrants have little choice in the suburbs but to share housing.

''We have a lot of people who live in an expensive area in Waldwick because they
have jobs in the restaurant in a country club,'' said Blanca Molina, who works
with a Union City, N.J., immigrant advocacy group, Comite en Union Para
Salvadorenos. ''They rent a house in the area, and they put 10 or 12 people
there. I don't think that's a good thing, but they don't have other options.''

James Claffey, a board member of the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said
immigrants who want to work on the Island have to live close to their jobs
because there is little public transportation.

''People criticize them for the way they live, but they don't want to live
doubled up in space,'' he said. ''They have no choice.''

The density of growing immigrant enclaves puts pressure on local governments and
taxpayers. In Riverside in Burlington County, N.J., town leaders passed an
ordinance banning the hiring and housing of immigrants who cannot prove their
legal status.

''Overcrowding creates safety and sanitary issues that the municipalities have
to deal with,'' said Joseph F. Vitale, a state senator and the interim mayor of
Woodbridge. ''If a landlord creates a makeshift apartment, and he runs wires and
plumbing to the basement, it could be unsafe. And because there are so many in
the home, the trash at the curb is sometimes overwhelming.''

Dr. Massey, the Princeton demographer, said frictions with new immigrants were
typical and could become more common as immigrant populations swell.

''At first, they're kind of invisible,'' he said of immigrants. ''As their
numbers grow, they meet increasing resistance.''

The wave also challenges schools. Hundreds of districts have had to add teachers
to cope with language barriers. The Westbury school district in Nassau County
has seen its population of students with limited English ability rise to 30
percent from 20 percent in five years. More children speak Spanish at home in
Bound Brook's Lafayette and Lamonte Schools than English.

The states bear some of the costs, but many schools have spent extra money on
staff development and on reaching out to immigrant communities, which tend to be
more insular and less involved in the schools.

''Some of our teachers have never taught populations such as these,'' said Marc
F. Bernstein, superintendent of the Valley Stream Central High School District
on Long Island.

But even as they have added pressure to local governments, the new immigrants
have also driven an economic revival in the pockets where they have settled.

''In Iselin, 15 years ago the business district was becoming a ghost town, and
the Indian community came in and revived it,'' Senator Vitale of Woodbridge
said. ''We have five downtown areas, and they're all thriving.''

Dr. Forman said that immigrants had revived several Long Island communities,
including Freeport, Elmont and Lawrence. ''Those communities have developed
downtown street life,'' he said. ''It may not be the suburban ideal of beautiful
one-acre properties, but these are working people, and they're stable, and
they're finding a way to provide for their families.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING AN IMPACT -- Alice Mejias, on her way to prepare her
classroom for the coming school year, has many immigrant students as a teacher
of English as a second language at Drexel Avenue Elementary in Westbury, N.Y.
Many businesses throughout the suburbs of New York City cater to immigrants,
including a travel agency, top, in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
a money-wiring business, middle, in Hamden, Conn.
and an Indian restaurant in the Iselin section of Woodbridge, N.J. (Photo by
Phil Marino for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
STRONG PRESENCE -- Custodians readying floors for the coming year at Drexel
Avenue Elementary School in Westbury on Long Island, where a dual language
program in some classrooms involves lessons taught in English one day that are
repeated in Spanish the next. Main Street stores in Bound Brook, N.J., include a
check cashing and money order business that caters to Hispanics, who Mayor Frank
J. Ryan says have filled a void in the labor market. (Photo by Phil Marino for
The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map:
''Percent change in foreign-born population, 2000 to 2005''Graph tracks top 25
countries of birth for immigrants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for
2000 and 2005.(Sources by Census Bureau, Queens College Department of
Sociology)(pg. 8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 30, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New Jersey: Trenton: Group Claims Schools Violate ID Rule

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 108 words


The American Civil Liberties Union claimed yesterday that about one-fourth of
New Jersey's schools were violating state policy by asking registering students
for Social Security numbers. The civil liberties organization said that requests
for the numbers, based on a survey of schools released yesterday, could make
illegal immigrants afraid to enroll their children. Richard Vespucci, a
spokesman for the State Education Department, said the department had not
received a letter from the A.C.L.U. and could not comment. He said the state
updated its policy less than two years ago to clarify that districts could not
request Social Security numbers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 30, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Court Orders City to Ensure Aid for Battered Immigrants

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words


A federal judge yesterday ordered the city to stop illegally denying food stamps
and other aid to battered immigrant women and children and to overhaul the
error-plagued computer programs and training manuals that continue to lead
welfare workers to turn them away.

The judge determined that high-level city policymakers had long been aware of
the systemic problems, but did little or nothing to fix them until a group of
battered women filed a lawsuit late last year. As a result, if the city and
state continue to fight the lawsuit, the judge said, he will be highly likely to
find them liable for ''deliberate indifference'' to violations of the
plaintiffs' federal and state rights.

''It is not the policy of the United States, nor of the State of New York, to
leave destitute the battered immigrant wives and children of lawful U.S.
residents just because their abusive husbands are no longer supporting them or
providing them with a basis for obtaining aid,'' the judge, Jed S. Rakoff of
United States District Court in Manhattan, wrote in his 83-page decision. He
certified the lawsuit as a class action and issued a preliminary injunction
against the city and state.

The judge commended the city for fixing some of the problems since February,
when he issued a partial injunction and held nine days of hearings in the case.
But he added that problems persisted because of inadequate training, poor
computer design and faulty directives.

''The simple truth, moreover, is that the ameliorative actions now taken by the
city and state defendants would not likely have been taken if this lawsuit had
not been brought and had the court not issued its initial injunction,'' he
wrote.

The decision is awkward for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who is preparing to
unveil a plan for attacking poverty in the city, a central goal of his second
term. The plan is expected to focus on children, young adults and the working
poor.

Jane Tobey Momo, senior counsel for the city, said officials were reviewing the
opinion to determine the city's next steps. ''While we are disappointed in the
court's findings,'' she wrote in a statement, ''we are pleased that the court
recognized and commended the city for the extensive recent steps taken to
ameliorate the difficulties in delivering benefits to noncitizen immigrants.

''The difficult and changing federal and state statutes, regulations and
policies present continuing challenges to the process,'' she added.

When the lawsuit was filed in December by the New York Legal Assistance Group
and the Legal Aid Society, the lawyers called it a last resort, saying that
officials had failed to fix problems that forced hundreds of women to choose
between staying safe and feeding their families, despite government policies
aimed at supporting them until they can get on their feet.

The suit seeks back benefits that range from a few hundred dollars to one or two
thousand dollars per family in the class. ''That represents months of being able
to get by,'' said Ronald Abramson, a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed, which
worked on the case for months without charge, but is now likely to be able to
collect more than a million dollars in legal fees from the city.

About a dozen plaintiffs, mostly identified only by initials, include a woman
from Senegal helping to prosecute the man accused of torturing her and murdering
her sister; a Mexican mother of two whose husband chased her with a gun; and a
Bangladeshi woman whose husband, since hospitalized for mental illness, kicked
her in the abdomen while she was pregnant, cut up her clothes and threatened to
kill her when she tried to go to work.

Several fled to domestic violence shelters, only to find themselves unable to
buy food or medicine for their children. In an affidavit, one breast-feeding
mother wrote of going hungry and of feeling powerless as she and her young
children lost weight.

The abuse, documented in orders of protection, police reports and letters from
domestic violence shelters, was not in question. Nor was eligibility for aid,
often affirmed through administrative ''fair hearings,'' only to be denied again
or automatically cut off.

One of the basic problems lay in the pull-down computer menu that caseworkers
used when entering information about a noncitizen applying for aid. The list of
eligible immigration categories mistakenly omitted ''battered qualified alien,''
the category in which these women and children fit.

That problem was fixed recently, after Judge Rakoff's February order, but other
deficiencies remain. The judge called the violations ''the direct results of the
flawed design of the city's computer system, the pervasive errors in the city's
training materials and policy directives, and the widespread worker ignorance
resulting from inadequate training of the city's employees.''

''The Court readily concludes that, given the pervasive and systemic nature of
the various problems resulting in the unlawful denial of benefits to plaintiffs,
plaintiffs have established a very high likelihood that the city will be found
liable on all the plaintiffs claims,'' he wrote.

In 45 pages devoted to legal findings, he determined that the plaintiffs had
established ''an overwhelming likelihood of success on their contention that the
city, in its failure to adequately train its employees, was 'deliberately
indifferent' to the violation of plaintiffs' federal rights.'' He added that the
state was ''vicariously liable'' because it supervises the city's provision of
public aid and had failed to change its own programming problems and faulty
directives.

Jason Brown, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki, said state officials would
not comment until they review the decision.

Mr. Abramson said even last winter, when the judge ordered the city to provide
aid to the named plaintiffs, the city's lawyers returned to court saying their
efforts had been stymied because the computer system ''errored-out'' many of the
cases.

But eventually all the families involved in the lawsuit received aid, said
Caroline Jane Hickey, a lawyer with New York Legal Assistance Group. ''We are
thrilled with Judge Rakoff's decision to protect the rights of a population with
almost no voice,'' she said.

She cited the case of the Mexican mother identified as J.Z. in the lawsuit, who
has since been able to move into public housing in the Bronx with her two
children. She has passed a high school equivalency test and found a job at her
children's school.

''She has managed to completely turn her life around,'' Ms. Hickey said. ''She
plans to be a nurse.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Queens: Charge Of Impersonating Agent

BYLINE: NYT; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 138 words


A Bronx man has been charged with impersonating a federal agent after he told
police officers who stopped his van outside Kennedy Airport that he was an
immigration agent, prosecutors said yesterday. The man, Stephan M. Kishore, 20,
of Croes Avenue, is charged with criminal impersonation, fraud and other
offenses, said Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney. Mr. Brown said
Mr. Kishore displayed a federal immigration badge to Port Authority police
officers after they pulled his minivan over for a traffic infraction on the Van
Wyck Expressway on Monday afternoon. The back of the badge was marked ''not for
official use,'' prosecutors said. A later search of Mr. Kishore's apartment
found two stun guns, 32 federal law enforcement identification cards, 2 pilots'
license cards, a press card and 11 badges, Mr. Brown said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Untapped Market: Immigrants

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 561 words


AFTER 12 years of increases, home ownership declined slightly last year in the
United States as home prices kept many prospective buyers in the rental market.
Of course, a softening market could lead to a rebound in ownership rates in the
coming years, but another source of momentum could come from a different source:
immigrants.

Even as immigration levels surged in the last several years, homeownership rates
among Asian-Americans and Hispanics, who make up a majority of immigrants,
continue to lag behind the rate of non-Hispanic white Americans, according to a
recent report by Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing Studies.

The ownership rate among all American households was 69.8 percent last year. The
ownership rate among all minorities was just over 50 percent, compared with
about 75 percent for non-Hispanic whites.

But that is starting to change. According to the Harvard report, home ownership
among both Hispanics and Asian-Americans jumped by nearly 10 percentage points
from 1995 through last year, as both groups grow more affluent.

Despite that increased buying power, though, mortgage executives and advocates
for minority groups said that recent immigrants found the practicalities of
American mortgages and homeownership at odds with what they experienced in their
countries of origin.

Nicolas P. Retsinas, the director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at
Harvard, said other nations have higher rates of ownership than the United
States, but the economic factors of homeownership are vastly different.

In Mexico or Argentina, ''you can own a home, but there's no market for buying
and selling,'' he said. ''In many cases in Mexico, even though you own the home,
you don't have title to the land, so you can't sell it.''

Other countries also have different practices when it comes to mortgages. For
instance, according to Asian Americans for Equality, an advocacy group in New
York, in many Asian countries -- China, for instance -- the minimum down payment
for a mortgage is typically more than 50 percent, so underwriting methods are
different.

Mr. Retsinas said that American lenders have ''to find a better way to connect
with these markets, because as interest rates go up, they're going to have to
find a way to help people buy homes'' if they are going to make money, ''and the
people who need homes are immigrants.''

The biggest institutions in the lending industry are starting to do just that.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored companies that help finance
most mortgages in the United States, have recently begun studying the new
approaches to homeownership among immigrant populations.

Fannie Mae, for example, is looking at ways to track the roughly $40 billion
sent by Hispanic immigrants to relatives back home each year. By doing so,
Fannie Mae hopes it can show lenders that the fiscal responsibility those
payments demonstrate would extend to mortgage payments.

Harold Lewis, the senior vice president for community and multicultural lending,
said Fannie Mae was also looking more closely at how Asian immigrants approach
housing. He said they may pool their incomes to buy a house, perhaps because
they are not aware that they can individually qualify for mortgages with a low
down payment, or because they do not see the benefit of securing a mortgage with
a smaller down payment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Those on the Outside, The Urge to Be Here Remains

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Now Bringing Home the Leaner
Bacon; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 317 words


TO many beyond its borders, America remains the land of opportunity.

From October through May, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
received 3.5 million applications from foreigners for employment authorizations,
green cards and other immigrant benefits relating to residency or citizenship.
Though down 9 percent from the same period a year ago in a further decline from
the levels in 2001, before immigration rules were tightened, that is one
application for every 100 Americans.

Whatever you may think about the state of the American labor market or the
impact of immigrants on it, there is no denying that the right to work and live
in the United States remains highly coveted.

Of those seeking entry, two groups dominate the numbers: low-skilled workers
from Mexico and other Latin American countries and highly skilled professionals
from India and China, said Richard B. Freeman, an economics professor at
Harvard.

For the first group, the American labor market offers a higher standard of
living and many more job opportunities. Life is certainly difficult for the
first ones across the border, but their children have a far better shot at the
American dream.

The second group, most of whom have at least a college degree, have different
reasons for coming. They could get jobs in fast-growing economies back home, but
they earn far more here and get to live in a fully developed, modern society.

''We can complain about our labor market because we are born in the U.S.,'' said
Mr. Freeman, who is also director of labor studies programs at the National
Bureau of Economic Research. ''But if you come from India or Mexico, you have
totally different initial expectations.

''I just can't imagine when we will not be attractive to immigrants,'' he
continued. ''We would really have to screw our country up and they would have to
run their countries very well.''   VIKAS BAJAJ


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by David Plunkert)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Preparing Hispanic Parents and Children for School

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y.


Chunky yellow Play-Doh hamburgers, jars of primary-color paint and cardboard
letter tiles filled up part of a room at the Long Island Children's Museum here.
Nearby on a carpet, a group of children stared up at a teacher who turned a book
around to show them the pictures.

It wasn't exactly a scene in a kindergarten classroom, but it was close.

The museum room is designed to resemble a kindergarten, complete with a teacher
and structured activities, as a way to introduce children from immigrant
Hispanic families to an American classroom before they walk into one today for
their first day of school.

A total of 60 children attended the first summer sessions of the museum's
pre-school program, Juntos al Kinder, Spanish for Together to Kindergarten. They
were from five Nassau school districts -- Hempstead, Freeport, Roosevelt,
Uniondale and Westbury -- with large numbers of families who speak little or no
English at home.

Census figures show that since 2000, immigrant populations have grown faster in
the suburbs than in New York City, a shift from traditional patterns in which
immigrants first settled in cities offering lower-cost housing and jobs.

That change is readily visible in Long Island's public schools, whose student
populations are increasingly diverse.

In Uniondale, 16 of the children in the museum program will begin kindergarten.
The number of Hispanic children in the district who speak only Spanish or
limited English has tripled in the last five years, according to Brenda
Williams-Jackson, the principal of the Northern Parkway Elementary School in
Uniondale.

Starting school is a considerable challenge for any child, and language barriers
make it even more difficult. The children will find that ''the signs are in
English, everyone's speaking English, anyone you come across can't communicate
with you,'' Dr. Williams-Jackson said.

Heather DeTommaso, one of the teachers in the museum program who taught
kindergarten in Uniondale for eight years, said Hispanic students who could not
speak English were often overlooked.

''They would be very quiet to the point where they would be silent and wouldn't
even speak Spanish to other kids,'' Ms. DeTommaso said, recalling students in
some of her classes. ''This would go on for months until, say, Christmas, when
they would open up.''

Ms. DeTommaso rarely saw the children's parents, she said. The reason, she
suspects, is that ''they just didn't have the information about their role in
the classroom.''

In the museum's program, parents attended classes one day a week, learning how
to get involved in school activities and how to teach children through play.

On a recent day at the museum, Maria Isabel Martinez was teaching a class of 13
parents -- 12 women and a man -- whose children, including older brothers and
sisters, were in a downstairs classroom.

Speaking in Spanish, the teacher brought up a range of topics in an informal
discussion as the parents listened, some taking notes. One woman had her laptop
computer open.

Help children prepare for school using simple methods at home, Ms. Martinez
said, incorporating household chores to teach numbers -- setting the table for
four, for example -- or passing along the wisdom of such common Spanish proverbs
as ''a bee cannot make a beehive alone.''

Ms. Martinez has been teaching bilingual education in private and public schools
on Long Island for 15 years. ''In Latin America, parents leave the job to the
school to do it all,'' Ms. Martinez said. But in America, parents are expected
to be more active. ''It is intimidating if you're not fluent in the language to
go into a school and ask questions,'' she said.

Like most parents, Ms. Martinez added, Hispanic parents want their children to
succeed. But by the time their children enter kindergarten, many of their
English-speaking peers have had three years of preschool learning about letters,
numbers and classrooms.

''The reason this program is successful is because there is a big need in the
community,'' Ms. Martinez said of Juntos al Kinder.

Rosa Jimenez's son, Jason, now 7, started kindergarten two years ago. ''I didn't
know any English and couldn't communicate with the teachers,'' she said,
speaking in a combination of Spanish and English. ''I didn't really know what
was expected.'' She enrolled in the museum program with her daughter, Katherine,
5, to learn how to make school easier this time around.

Aracely Vega is starting early by enrolling her only child, Sebastian, 3. It is
hard work trying to make her son feel comfortable in a foreign country, she
said, speaking in Spanish. ''It's difficult because here they teach parents to
get involved from the early years,'' Ms. Vega said. ''In Venezuela, they just
called the parents when the kid was in trouble.''

The museum classes for parents are critical, said Peggy Miller, principal of the
Columbus Avenue School -- Early Education Center in Freeport, where a third of
the children entering kindergarten in the district speak limited English.

''The parents are being educated in their responsibilities -- that it's
important to come to meetings and make sure the child comes to school every day
and that they're checking homework and notes,'' Ms. Miller said.

For all its benefits, some critics have said the program promotes the isolation
of Hispanic children. It causes them to cluster together even before they arrive
in kindergarten, and so immigrant youngsters unwittingly hold themselves back,
said the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez of the Brookville Reformed Church in Glen Head.

''By not integrating, by not having friends in the Anglo, more middle-class
community, they do not see a world that they can aspire to,'' said Mr. Ramirez,
who has been an advocate for immigrant workers.

But immigrant parents cited the program for helping them navigate the public
school system. ''I learned how to help my daughter,'' Ms. Jimenez said. ''To
make sure she's not afraid of school.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Preschool classes, taught in Spanish at the Long Island
Children's Museum, get the parents and their children ready for the first day of
classes. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 8, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Border Agent Pleads Guilty

BYLINE: By STEVE BARNES (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 94 words


A Border Patrol agent stationed at Falfurrias pleaded guilty in Federal District
Court in Houston to four felonies, including selling government identification
documents to immigrants and assisting in the smuggling of cocaine. Prosecutors
said the agent, David Duque Jr., 36, was under surveillance when he allowed a
vehicle with almost a kilogram of cocaine to enter the United States, for which
he admitted being paid $5,000 by an undercover informant. Mr. Duque could face
20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine when he is sentenced on Nov. 17.   STEVE
BARNES (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Muslims Are Coming to U.S. After a Decline in Wake of 9/11

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1860 words


America's newest Muslims arrive in the afternoon crunch at John F. Kennedy
International Airport. Their planes land from Dubai, Casablanca and Karachi.
They stand in line, clasping documents. They emerge, sometimes hours later,
steering their carts toward a flock of relatives, a stream of cabs, a new life.

This was the path for Nur Fatima, a Pakistani woman who moved to Brooklyn six
months ago and promptly shed her hijab. Through the same doors walked Nora
Elhainy, a Moroccan who sells electronics in Queens, and Ahmed Youssef, an
Egyptian who settled in Jersey City, where he gives the call to prayer at a
palatial mosque.

''I got freedom in this country,'' said Ms. Fatima, 25. ''Freedom of everything.
Freedom of thought.''

The events of Sept. 11 transformed life for Muslims in the United States, and
the flow of immigrants from countries like Egypt, Pakistan and Morocco thinned
sharply.

But five years later, as the United States wrestles with questions of terrorism,
civil liberties and immigration control, Muslims appear to be moving here again
in surprising numbers, according to statistics collected by the Department of
Homeland Security and the Census Bureau.

Immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries in the Middle East, North Africa
and Asia are planting new roots in states from Virginia to Texas to California.

In 2005, more people from Muslim countries became legal permanent United States
residents -- nearly 96,000 -- than in any year in the previous two decades.

More than 40,000 of them were admitted last year, the highest annual number
since the terrorist attacks, according to data on 22 countries provided by the
Department of Homeland Security.

Many have made the journey unbowed by tales of immigrant hardship, and despite
their own opposition to American policy in the Middle East. They come seeking
the same promise that has drawn foreigners to the United States for many
decades, according to a range of experts and immigrants: economic opportunity
and political freedom.

Those lures, both powerful and familiar, have been enough to conquer fears that
America is an inhospitable place for Muslims.

''America has always been the promised land for Muslims and non-Muslims,'' said
Behzad Yaghmaian, an Iranian exile and author of ''Embracing the Infidel:
Stories of Muslim Migrants on the Journey West.'' ''Despite Muslims' opposition
to America's foreign policy, they still come here because the United States
offers what they're missing at home.''

For Ms. Fatima, it was the freedom to dress as she chose and work as a security
guard. For Mr. Youssef, it was the chance to earn a master's degree.

He came in spite of the deep misgivings that he and many other Egyptians have
about the war in Iraq and the Bush administration. In America, he said, one
needs to distinguish between the government and the people.

''Who am I dealing with, Bush or the American public?'' he said. ''Am I dealing
with my future in Egypt or my future here?''

Muslims have been settling in the United States in significant numbers since the
mid-1960's, after immigration quotas that favored Eastern Europeans were lifted.
Spacious mosques opened in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York as a new, highly
educated Muslim population took hold.

Over the next three decades, the story of Muslim migration to the United States
was marked by growth and prosperity. A larger percentage of immigrants from
Muslim countries have graduate degrees than other American residents, and their
average salary is about 20 percent higher, according to census data.

But Sept. 11 altered the course of Muslim life in America. Mosques were
vandalized. Hate crimes rose. Deportation proceedings began against thousands of
men.

Some Muslims changed their names to avoid job discrimination, making Mohammed
''Moe,'' and Osama ''Sam.'' Scores of families left for Canada.

Yet this period also produced something strikingly positive, in the eyes of many
Muslims: they began to mobilize politically and socially. Across the country,
grass-roots groups expanded to educate Muslims on civil rights, register them to
vote and lobby against new federal policies such as the Patriot Act.

''There was the option of becoming introverted or extroverted,'' said Agha
Saeed, national chairman of the American Muslim Task Force on Civil Rights and
Elections, an umbrella organization in Newark, Calif. ''We became extroverted.''

In some ways, new Muslim immigrants may be better off in the post-9/11 America
they encounter today, say Muslim leaders: Islamic centers are more organized,
and resources like English instruction and free legal help are more accessible.

But outside these newly organized mosques, life remains strained for many
Muslims. To avoid taunts, women are often warned not to wear head scarves in
public, as was Rubab Razvi, 21, a Pakistani who arrived in Brooklyn nine months
ago. (She ignored the advice, even though people stare at her on the bus, she
said.) Muslims continue to endure long waits at airports, where they are often
tagged for questioning.

To some longtime immigrants, the life embraced by newcomers will never compare
to the peaceful era that came before.

''They haven't seen the America pre-9/11,'' said Khwaja Mizan Hassan, 42, who
left Bangladesh 30 years ago. He rose to become the president of Jamaica Muslim
Center, a mosque in Queens, and has a comfortable job with the New York City
Department of Probation.

But after Sept. 11, he was stopped at Kennedy Airport because his name matched
one on a watch list.

A Drop, Then a Surge

  Up to six million Muslims live in the United States, by some estimates. While
the Census Bureau and the Department of Homeland Security do not track religion,
both provide statistics on immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries. It is
presumed that many of these immigrants are Muslim, but people of other faiths,
such as Iraqi Chaldeans and Egyptian Copts, have also come in appreciable
numbers.

Immigration from these regions slowed considerably after Sept. 11. Fewer people
were issued green cards and nonimmigrant visas. By 2003, the number of
immigrants arriving from 22 Muslim countries had declined by more than a third.
For students, tourists and other nonimmigrants from these countries, the drop
was even more dramatic, with total visits down by nearly half.

The falloff affected immigrants from across the post-9/11 world as America
tightened its borders, but it was most pronounced among those moving here from
Pakistan, Morocco, Iran and other Muslim nations.

Several factors might explain the drop: more visa applications were rejected due
to heightened security procedures, said officials at the State Department and
Department of Homeland Security; and fewer people applied for visas.

But starting in 2004, the numbers rebounded. The tally of people coming to live
in the United States from Bangladesh, Turkey, Algeria and other Muslim countries
rose by 20 percent, according to an analysis of Census Bureau data.

The uptick was also notable among foreigners with nonimmigrant visas. More than
55,000 Indonesians, for instance, were issued those visas last year, compared
with roughly 36,000 in 2002.

The rise does not reflect relaxed security measures, but a higher number of visa
applications and greater efficiency in processing them, said Chris Bentley, a
spokesman for United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of
Homeland Security.

Like other immigrants, Muslims find their way to the United States in myriad
ways: they come as refugees, or as students and tourists. Others arrive with
immigrant visas secured byrelatives here. A lucky few win the green-card
lottery.

Ahmed Youssef, 29, never thought he would be among the winners. But in 2003, Mr.
Youssef, who taught Arabic in Egypt, was one of 50,000 people randomly chosen
from 9.5 million applicants around the world.

As he prepared to leave Benha, a city north of Cairo, some friends asked him how
he could move to a country that is ''killing people in Iraq and Afghanistan,''
he recalled. But others who had been to the United States encouraged him to go.

He arrived in May 2005, and he found work loading hot dog carts from sunrise to
sundown. He shared an apartment in Washington Heights with other Egyptians, but
for the first month, he never saw his neighborhood in daylight.

''I joked to my roommates, 'When am I going to see America?' '' said Mr.
Youssef, a slight man with thinning black hair and an easy smile.

Only three months later, when he began selling hot dogs on Seventh Avenue, did
Mr. Youssef discover his new country.

He missed hearing the call to prayer, and thought nothing of unrolling his
prayer rug beside his cart until other vendors warned him against it. He could
be mistaken for an extremist, they told him.

Eventually, Mr. Youssef found a job as the secretary of the Islamic Center of
Jersey City. He plans to apply to a master's program at Columbia University,
specializing in Arabic. For now, he lives in a spare room above the mosque. Near
his bed, he keeps a daily log of his prayers. If he makes them on time, he
writes ''Correct'' in Arabic. ''I am much better off here than selling hot
dogs,'' he said.

Awash in American Flags

  Nur Fatima landed in Midwood, Brooklyn, at a propitious time. Had she come
three years earlier, she woul have seen a neighborhood in crisis.

Hundreds of Pakistani immigrants disappeared after being asked to register with
the government. Thirty shops closed along a stretch of Coney Island Avenue known
as Little Pakistan. The number of new Urdu-speaking pupils at the local
elementary school, Public School 217, dropped by half in the 2002-3 school year.

But then Little Pakistan got organized. A local businessman, Moe Razvi,
converted a former antique store into a community center offering legal advice,
computer classes and English instruction. Local Muslim leaders began meeting
with federal agents to soothe relations.

The annual Pakistan Independence Day parade is now awash in American flags.

It is a transformation seen in Muslim immigrant communities around the nation.

''They have to prove that they are living here as Muslim Americans rather than
living as Pakistanis and Egyptians and other nationalities,'' said Zahid H.
Bukhari, the director of the American Muslim Studies Program at Georgetown
University.

Ms. Fatima arrived in Brooklyn from Pakistan in March with an immigrant visa.
She began by taking English classes at Mr. Razvi's center, the Council of
Peoples Organization.

She has heard stories of the neighborhood's former plight but sees a different
picture.

''This is a land of opportunity,'' Ms. Fatima said. ''There is equality for
everyone.''

Five days after she came to Brooklyn, Ms. Fatima removed her head scarf, which
she had been wearing since she was 10. She began to change her thinking, she
said: She liked living in a country where people respected the privacy of others
and did not interfere with their religious or social choices.

''I came to the United States because I want to improve myself,'' she said.
''This is a second birth for me.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: LEARNING TO GET ALONG -- A computer class in Brooklyn is among
the services that are helping immigrants succeed.
'EQUALITY FOR EVERYONE' -- Nur Fatima, who came from Pakistan last year, at her
job as a security guard at a construction site in Brooklyn.
'BUSH OR THE AMERICAN PUBLIC?' -- Ahmed Youssef, saying the call to prayer at a
Jersey City mosque, came from Egypt though he opposes the Iraq war.
 IN LITTLE PAKISTAN -- On Coney Island Avenue in Midwood, Brooklyn, there are
many Pakistani businesses, and the local elementary school has enrolled dozens
of Urdu-speaking pupils. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg.
32)Chart: ''Muslims Before and After 9/11''The number of people entering the
United States from many predominantly Muslim countries declined sharply
immediately after Sept. 11 but has resurged since 2004.Graphs track both number
of people admitted as legal permanent residents and the number of temporary
admissions*, in thousands, from 1998-2005 for the following
countries:EGYPTINDONESIAIRANMOROCCOPAKISTANSAUDI ARABIAYEMEN*Includes students,
tourists, foreign diplomats and business travelers, who may have been admitted
more than once in a given year.(Source by U.S. Department of Homeland
Security)(pg. 32)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Equation

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; By the Numbers; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 932 words


A new wrinkle in the raging political debate: What if immigrants can save the
housing market?It's often said that immigrants do the jobs Americans don't want
to do. They've just been assigned another task: Buy the homes of the baby boom
generation. But this task is one that native-born Americans simply can't do.
There won't be enough of them.

Many of the 78 million boomers, the first of whom turn 60 this year, will sell
their property over the next two decades, says George Masnick, a research
affiliate with the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University. Some
will move to a smaller home or to their second home, others will move into a
managed-care complex. And for some who never moved, it will be their estate
making the sale. What many boomers should be asking right now is who will buy
their 34 million homes. The buyers may well be immigrants, and not necessarily
legal ones (about 12 million of the 35 million foreign-born people in America
are illegal immigrants, according to estimates from the Center for Immigration
Studies, in Washington).

Demographers say there aren't enough potential homeowners in the echo boom (the
children of the baby boomers) or in the generation that comes after that (still
without a catchy name) to soak up that supply, no matter how slowly it goes on
the market. (It is presumed that the bulk of the Gen Xers will have done their
home buying by then.)

Without sufficient demand, prices will fall. Masnick predicts that as many as 90
percent of the homes will be bought by native-born Americans. ''But the last 10
percent is central,'' he says. ''Without that 10 percent, it will be a buyers'
market.''

The good news is that there are enough young first- and second-generation
immigrants to do the job. The popular telling of the American dream that has
Smith selling to Schmidt who then sells to Shapiro will record the next chapter
with Sung and Sanchez doing the buying. Dowell Myers, a professor at the
University of Southern California who studies the impact of demography on urban
planning, says, ''The odds are that a white baby boomer won't be selling to
another white.''

He or she will be selling to what we today call a minority, though in many
communities, whites may then be in the minority. ''The immigrants will take up
the slack,'' Myers says, ''and it will be huge.''

The even better news, Masnick says, is that ''the second-generation immigrants
will hit the housing market just when they are needed most.''

Demographers are sure this will come to pass, because they have studied the baby
boom population bulge, or as they call it, ''cohort dynamics.'' And they see
immigrants as another large cohort moving steadily upward. California, where
more than 25 percent of the residents are immigrants, is their observation
booth. ''What happens in California is a precursor to what will happen in the
rest of the United States,'' says John Pitkin, who runs a demographic
forecasting firm in Cambridge, Mass. ''There is no question that real estate in
California will be shaped by immigrants and their children.''

What forecasters have seen happen in California is encouraging. The
per-household homeownership rate among native-born Americans is about 61
percent, 14 percentage points above the rate for immigrants. But immigrants who
have lived in the United States for 30 years or more exceed the homeownership
rate of native-born Americans by about 10 percentage points.

Myers now finds ownership rates of 60 percent among Hispanics in the Los Angeles
area. ''They are buying really cheap housing, but it creates a base of demand
that pushes everyone up,'' he says.

Myers also found that home prices rose faster in areas that Hispanics are moving
to, like the Los Angeles County cities El Monte and Montebello, than in
surrounding neighborhoods. According to figures compiled by Dataquick, prices
for single-family homes in these cities rose at least 25 percent between 2004
and 2005, compared with the 20 percent average gain for all of the county.
Prices in parts of Compton, a predominantly black city that has turned
increasingly Hispanic, were up almost 40 percent in that one year. ''Immigrants
have strong upward mobility in housing,'' Myers says.

If this all seems overly rosy, a 2006 Harvard housing study found that
foreign-born residents already account for 37 percent of the new growth in
households.

But it's no sure thing that immigrants will save the day. A lot can go wrong.
''The danger is downward mobility,'' says Fred Siegel, a professor at the Cooper
Union for Science and Art, who has studied immigration patterns. ''If a
significant portion of recent immigrants are downwardly mobile, then that is bad
news for the boomers. Who will afford the McMansions?''

And while United States Census data now show that immigrants are spread all over
the country -- even well into suburban areas of the heartland -- they certainly
aren't evenly dispersed. In 2000, more than half of the foreign-born population
lived in just three states -- California, New York and Texas -- and in 10
metropolitan areas. And even though they continue to fan out into other areas in
increasing numbers, there may not be enough of them to help homeowners in places
like West Virginia and Indiana.

Predictions also become murky for demographers because no one knows what will
happen to immigration in the next decade. Will borders really be tightened? Will
illegal immigrants be deported?

Will amnesty be granted?

The political picture will have as much impact on the housing market as the
demographic one will.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Graphs show that in 2005, almost half of California home buyers
under age 35 were Hispanic or Asian. (Sources by John Pitkin, California
Demographic Futures Program, University ofSouthern California
 William H. Frey, Brookings Institution, analysis)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Keeping Terrorists Out

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 164 words



To the Editor:

''Iraq's Endangered Journalists,'' by Ali Fadhil (Op-Ed, Sept. 6), evokes a
third-rail issue that receives little public attention: the accommodation of
refugees and asylum seekers who are victims of political upheavals, including
civil war. These are grounds under United States statutes for the resettlement
of as many as two million Iraqi refugees who are associated with American
operations in Iraq.

Our commitment to the principles of global humanitarian response dictates their
rescue, as we have done in the past for Hungarians, Cubans and Vietnamese, among
others.

As American withdrawal nears, our legislators need to think twice about reckless
changes to the Patriot Act, which has amended the Immigration and Naturalization
Act to preclude people with terrorist histories and tendencies from slipping
into the United States under a refugee cover.

Robert Lockwood
Williamsburg, Va., Sept. 6, 2006

The writer is a former counsel to the Senate Judiciary Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

First Through Gates of Ellis I., She Was Lost. Now She's Found.

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words


Annie Moore is memorialized by bronze statues in New York Harbor and Ireland and
cited in story and song as the first of 12 million immigrants to arrive at Ellis
Island. Her story, as it has been recounted for decades, is that she went west
with her family to fulfill the American dream -- eventually reaching Texas,
where she married a descendant of the Irish liberator Daniel O'Connell and then
died accidentally under the wheels of a streetcar at the age of 46.

The first part of the myth seems authentic enough.

Hustled ahead of a burly German by her two younger brothers and by an Irish
longshoreman who shouted ''Ladies first,'' one Annie Moore from County Cork set
foot on Ellis Island ahead of the other passengers from the steamship Nevada on
Jan. 1, 1892, her 15th birthday. She was officially registered by the former
private secretary to the secretary of the treasury and was presented with a $10
gold piece by the superintendent of immigration.

''She says she will never part with it, but will always keep it as a pleasant
memento of the occasion,'' The New York Times reported in describing the
ceremonies inaugurating Ellis Island.

As for what happened next, though, history appears to have embraced the wrong
Annie Moore.

''It's a classic go-West-young-woman tale riddled with tragedy,'' said Megan
Smolenyak Smolenyak, a professional genealogist. ''If only it were true.''

In fact, according to Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak's research, the Annie Moore of
Ellis Island fame settled on the Lower East Side, married a bakery clerk and had
11 children. She lived a poor immigrant's life, but her descendants multiplied
and many prospered.

The story of the immigrant girl who went west, however, became so commonly
accepted that even descendants of the Annie Moore who died in Texas came to
believe it. Over the years, several have been invited to participate at
ceremonies on Ellis Island and in Ireland.

It took some genealogical detective work to find the proper Annie. After
offering a $1,000 reward on the Internet a few months ago for information about
Annie Moore, Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak teamed up with New York City's
commissioner of records, Brian G. Andersson, and discovered the woman who they
have concluded is, in fact, the iconic Annie Moore.

Joined by several of her descendants, they are scheduled to announce the results
of their research tomorrow at the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society
in Manhattan.

Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak (a genealogist's dream: she's a Smolenyak married to a
previously unrelated Smolenyak) became interested in Annie Moore four years ago
while researching a documentary film on immigration. Pursuing the paper trail,
she found that the Annie who died instantly when struck by a streetcar near Fort
Worth in 1923 was not an immigrant at all but was apparently born in Illinois.
Moreover, she traced that Moore family to Texas as early as 1880.

''I realized it was the wrong Annie,'' she recalled.

Then, what had happened to the Ellis Island Annie?

Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak made little progress for a few years, but her search
was reinvigorated this year after she moved to southern New Jersey and visited a
genealogical exhibition in Philadelphia featuring a 1910 photograph of the Texas
Annie. (The photograph might also have been a model for Jeanne Rynhart's two
bronze sculptures, one of which is at Ellis Island.)

She posted a challenge on her blog for information about the immigrant Annie
Moore. She also mentioned it to Mr. Andersson, who she knew was very interested
in genealogy.

''With the power of the Internet and a handful of history geeks we cracked this
baby in six weeks,'' she said. ''Brian found this one document, and we knew we
had the right family. We had the smoking gun.''

What Mr. Andersson found was the naturalization certificate belonging to Annie's
brother Phillip, who arrived with her on the steamship. He was also listed in
the 1930 census with a daughter, Anna. They found Anna in the Social Security
death index. That identification led to her son, who is Annie Moore's
great-nephew.

On her first try, Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak was lucky enough to find the
great-nephew listed in a directory. ''As soon as I said 'Annie Moore,' he knew
instantly -- 'That's us,' '' she said. ''They had been overlooked, but they had
sort of resigned themselves. I think they're very happy to be found.''

Her $1,000 reward is to be split between Mr. Andersson, who is donating it, and
Annie's great-niece.

As for Edward P. Wood, a New Jersey plumbing contractor who is descended from
the Texas Annie Moore and has been feted on Ellis Island, Mrs. Smolenyak
Smolenyak said that when she told him of her findings, he said, ''I'm
disappointed, but I'm not heartbroken.''

The Annie Moore who arrived in steerage and inaugurated Ellis Island initially
joined her parents, who had arrived several years earlier, apparently in a
five-story brick tenement at 32 Monroe Street in Manhattan. (One of many
problems that complicated Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak's search, she said, is there
is also a 32 Monroe Street in Brooklyn.)

Records indicate that Annie Moore later moved to, among other places, a nearby
apartment on New Chambers Street -- near the Newsboys' Lodging House and the
Third Avenue El on the Bowery.

The area now includes the Alfred E. Smith Houses, a public project constructed
in the early 1950's and named for the governor who grew up nearby, and the
Knickerbocker Village complex of rental apartments built in the 1930's.

''She had the typical hardscrabble immigrant life,'' Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak
said. ''She sacrificed herself for future generations.''

According to her latest research, Annie's father was a longshoreman. She married
a bakery clerk. They had at least 11 children. Five survived to adulthood and
three had children of their own. She died of heart failure in 1924 at 47. Her
brother Anthony, who arrived with Annie and Philip on the Nevada, died in his
20's in the Bronx and was temporarily buried in potter's field.

Annie lived and died within a few square blocks on the Lower East Side, where
some of her descendants lived until just recently. She is buried with 6 of her
11 children (five infants and one who survived to 21) alongside the famous and
forgotten in a Queens cemetery.

Her living descendants include great-grandchildren, the great-nephew and the
great-niece. One of the descendants is an investment counselor and another a
Ph.D.

Mrs. Smolenyak Smolenyak described them as ''poster children'' for immigrant
America, with Irish, Jewish, Italian and Scandinavian surnames. ''It's an
all-American family,'' she said. ''Annie would have been proud.''

So far, this turns out to be one of the few cases in which historical
revisionism may have enhanced a legacy instead of subverting it. As one
guidebook says: ''Annie Moore came to America bearing little more than her
dreams; she stayed to help build a country enriched by diversity.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeanne Rynhart's Ellis Island statue of Annie Moore, holding
her hat in the harbor breeze, was unveiled in 1993. At right, the Annie Moore
who died in Texas, once thought to have been the first at Ellis Island. (Photo
by Ellis Island Immigration Museum)
 (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 16, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Great-Great-Great-Great Day for Ellis Island's Annie

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 389 words


Four generations of descendants of Annie Moore Schayer, the first immigrant to
be processed on Ellis Island, gathered yesterday in New York for the first time
to celebrate her rediscovery -- and their own -- and to raise money for a
headstone for her unmarked grave in Calvary Cemetery in Queens.

The first contributions, of $500 each, came from Brian G. Andersson, the city's
commissioner of records, and Patricia Somerstein of Long Beach, N.Y., Annie's
great-niece. They donated their share of a $1,000 reward they received from a
professional genealogist.

The genealogist had been seeking clues to support her suspicion that a woman who
died in Texas in 1923 and had been embraced by history as the Ellis Island Annie
Moore was somebody else entirely. It turns out the Texan Annie Moore was not an
immigrant at all.

In fact, the Annie Moore who was 15 in 1892 when she came to the United States
from County Cork, Ireland, never moved west. She lived the rest of her life
within a few square blocks on Manhattan's Lower East Side and died at 99 Cherry
Street. One of her granddaughters lived in a public housing project in the
neighborhood until her death in 2001.

The genealogist, Megan Smolenyak Smolenyak, was joined at the New York
Genealogical and Biographical Society by about a dozen Moore descendants as well
as the Irish consul general and representatives of the Tenement Museum, the
National Park Service, the National Archives and the County Cork Association.

Among the descendants who attended were Mrs. Somerstein's brother, Michael
Shulman, 49, of Chevy Chase, Md., an investment analyst; a great-granddaughter
of Annie's, Maureen Peterson, 61, of Ocean Grove, N.J.; Dr. Julia L. Devous, 41,
another great-granddaughter, of Phoenix; and Dylan Donovan Krauss, 9 months old,
of Derby, Conn., Annie's great-great-great-great-grandson.

''We knew it was the truth, but we couldn't prove it,'' Mrs. Peterson said.

Annie married the son of a German-born baker at St. James Church on James Street
in 1895. Her husband was identified as an engineer and salesman at the Fulton
Fish Market. They had at least 11 children, 5 of whom survived to adulthood.

Annie died of heart failure in 1924 at 47 and is buried with six of her children
at the cemetery in Woodside, Queens, flanked by markers for a Maxwell and a
Jimenez.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maureen Peterson, left, with family pictures yesterday in New
York at a get-together of four generations of descendants of Annie Moore, the
first immigrant at Ellis Island. The wrong woman was long believed to have been
Annie
 only recently was her identity set straight. (Photographs by Shiho Fukada for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              403 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Search of Asylum After Reprieve Proves Temporary

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 968 words


He was 8 when he left Pakistan for the United States to be with his dying
mother. By 18 he was a high school basketball star in Queens who considered
himself as ''all-American'' as his hip-hop tastes and dreams of playing in the
N.B.A.

But to the United States government, Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain was another male
noncitizen over 15 from a predominantly Muslim country, and in February 2003,
when he complied with a special registration program created in response to the
Sept. 11 attacks, he became one of thousands tagged for deportation for lack of
proper papers.

Then, in what seemed like a happy ending, his coach, his classmates and his
congressman rallied to his rescue. The interim director of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement in New York, Edward J. McElroy, agreed in writing to
exercise ''prosecutorial discretion in not removing him from the United
States.'' And in April 2003, an immigration judge dismissed the deportation
case.

Yet this afternoon, Mr. Hussain, 21, will be back in immigration court in
Manhattan facing deportation all over again.

That is the case despite a trouble-free record that now includes high school
graduation, the filing of income tax returns, completion of a college course in
computer medical billing and official commendations that cite his ''courage in
overcoming tragedy and adversity in search of the American dream.''

''What more do they want?'' Mr. Hussain asked Tuesday night as he met with his
lawyer, Elizabeth OuYang, to prepare for today's hearing. ''What have I done?
What is my crime?''

Mr. McElroy's departure and a shift in bureaucratic practice left Mr. Hussain in
the lurch, his lawyer and supporters say. The government, though, contends that
the renewable two-year grant of ''deferred action'' that the young man received
in 2003 was always temporary.

Now, instead of trusting to prosecutorial discretion, he is seeking political
asylum, contending that as an Americanized, secular Muslim whose case was widely
publicized, he fears for his life if forced back to Pakistan. There, he says, he
would become a target or a pawn of surging anti-Americanism.

''This kid is an American kid now, nurtured here under our culture,'' said Gary
L. Ackerman, a Democratic congressman from Queens who intervened on Mr.
Hussain's behalf three years ago and who called the new deportation action
ludicrous. ''Why put him on the bad-guy team? We already recruited him!''

Jamie Zwieback, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in
an e-mail message that when Mr. Hussain applied for ''deferred action'' to be
renewed in December 2005, the application was denied because ''a determination
was made that, after approximately three years, it was most appropriate to move
forward so his status may be resolved.''

The agency, she added, ''will await the judge's decision to determine what next
steps may be taken.''

Whatever the result of today's asylum hearing, Mr. Hussain's experience
illustrates that almost three years after officials announced the suspension of
the special registration program, its effects are still unfolding.

For Mr. Hussain, an orphan whose uncle and four older siblings are all
naturalized citizens living in New York, the recurrent threat of deportation has
made the path to citizenship seem like a lifelong mirage.

In 1984, the year he was born, his mother was sponsored for immigration to the
United States by her brother, Kamal U. Ahmed, who is an obstetrician and
gynecologist in Queens. As a minor child, Mohammad would have shared her status.

But her application was still pending eight years later when she developed
cancer and came to the United States on a tourist visa for treatment. By the
time the United States Consulate in Karachi acted on her application in 1993, it
was too late: she was dying in the United States.

''On her death bed, she asked me to take care of Mohammad and keep him safe in
the United States,'' the uncle, Dr. Ahmed, wrote in his affidavit for today's
hearing.

So Mohammad stayed on illegally when his visitor's visa expired.

While the boy forgot his Urdu and adapted to American life, his father waited in
Pakistan for an immigrant visa, this time sponsored by Mohammad's older sister.
Again, tragedy intervened before it came through: his father died of a heart
attack when Mohammad was 15.

At that point, his sister filed a petition for Mohammad directly. But that
sibling application, made in April 2001, is still pending and could wait a dozen
years. At 18, like an estimated 14,000 of the 80,000 men who complied with
special registration, he was deemed deportable.

An article in The New York Times detailing his plight originally led Mr.
Ackerman to intervene. At first it seemed the solution was the two-year
''deferred action'' granted by Mr. McElroy, a former student of Mr. Hussain's
basketball coach, DeWitt Thomson.

Mr. Hussain went on with his life: registered for selective service, worked at
Dunkin' Donuts, played in amateur basketball tournaments and prepared for
college.

He also spoke his mind in a documentary by Theresa Thanjan about the impact of
special registration on teenagers called ''Whose Children Are These?'' Like news
articles about his case, the film has circulated worldwide, so Mr. Hussain is
known in Pakistan, though he knows no one there.

In the months since the government denied his application for renewal of
''deferred action,'' Mr. Hussain said, he has been unable to sleep or eat
properly because of the prospect of losing the only home he knows.

His former coach, Mr. Thomson, is angry and dismayed.

''This is absolutely against everything we have trained him to believe we are
all about,'' he said. ''Where is this welcoming, warm, democratic country? It's
in him -- and now we're throwing him out?''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain at his uncle's house in Queens. He
came to the United States when he was 8 to see his mother before she died here.
(Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              404 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Project to Secure Borders Will Begin in Arizona Desert

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 807 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21


A rugged, largely unpopulated 28-mile stretch of desert southwest of Tucson will
be the testing ground for the latest high-tech campaign by the United States
government to wrestle control of the border, this time in a partnership with
Boeing, the military and aerospace company.

Yet as top Department of Homeland Security officials and Boeing executives
gathered here on Thursday to hail the start of the project -- which will cost an
estimated $2 billion over six years and eventually cover the entire 6,000 miles
of the Mexican and Canadian borders -- they acknowledged that the first
challenge was disproving skeptics.

''The common complaint about the government is there is a lot of lofty rhetoric,
but the achievement always falls short,'' Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff said. ''We are very mindful of that. This is a very tall order. This is
about a solution we believe is going to do the job.''

Boeing, Mr. Chertoff formally announced, beat out other military contractors
that had bid to be the engineer of sorts for the program, the Secure Border
Initiative.

In that role, Boeing will be charged with lining up radar systems, cameras,
ground sensors, aerial vehicles, wireless communications equipment and vehicle
barriers, as well as traditional fences. It will also coordinate their use by a
Border Patrol force that is supposed to be made up of 18,000 officers by 2008.
That is the year by which the Department of Homeland Security intends to achieve
''operational control'' of the border.

''There have never been before all of these tools collected in one plan,'' said
the department's deputy secretary, Michael Jackson. ''It is a radical change in
business as usual at the border.''

The department is well aware of the decades of failed or incomplete
border-security efforts, including most recently a program known as the
Integrated Surveillance Intelligence System that turned out to be a $429 million
flop.

In that effort, begun in 1997, the cameras often broke down, fogged up in the
cold and rain, or were never installed as promised. Even when cameras or sensors
set off alerts, they most often were false alarms or, if they were not, the
Border Patrol often did not investigate them, a report by the department's
inspector general said last year.

Given this track record, the department is starting small with a tiny section of
the Arizona border, so it can quickly adjust if the strategy does not work. That
means for now, the Boeing contract is worth $70 million, enough to cover setting
up the management for the entire project and to pay for installing the equipment
near the border post at Sasabe, Ariz., one of the busiest spots for illegal
crossings.

''We recognize we are in a fish bowl here, and everybody will be watching, and
we have to perform,'' said J. Wayne Esser, the Boeing executive who supervised
the company's pitch for the contract. ''Failure is not an option.''

At Sasabe, Boeing intends to install nine tower-mounted camera and radar
systems, to track movement, day or night, in any weather. Sensors will be buried
in the ground to cover areas outside the radar's reach, Mr. Esser said. When the
radar or camera notices activity, the cameras would be used to figure out how
many people are involved, if they are on foot or in a vehicle or if the motion
is an animal instead.

Border Patrol officers will be able to monitor the camera images from the field
through wireless laptop connections. The officers will also probably have tiny
unmanned aerial vehicles that can be launched from a truck to keep track of
illegal immigrants until they can be caught.

Boeing will rely on subcontractors for most of the equipment. Its primary job,
similar to the role it plays in building airplanes, will be to integrate all the
parts into a working system, officials said. It will be given work orders in
small increments, so Department of Homeland Security officials can monitor its
performance.

''Build a little, prove it, build more,'' Mr. Jackson said.

The key, he said, will be figuring out how to use the Border Patrol staff most
effectively to pick up the illegal immigrants and return them to Mexico or other
countries of origin quickly enough so that the system is not overwhelmed.

Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative
research group, said the technology sounded impressive, but he wondered if it
was enough.

''As long as you have half a million new jobs here going empty each year but for
these workers, they are going to find a way to get around whatever obstacles we
put in their way,'' Ms. Jacoby said.

About $700 million has been budgeted for the project this year and next. While
officials had given an overall estimate of $2 billion, Mr. Chertoff refused to
put a price on the project. ''As inexpensive as possible'' was all he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2006



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about efforts by
the government to control the border referred incorrectly to a senior fellow at
the Manhattan Institute who commented on plans to secure the border. Tamar
Jacoby is a woman.

A map last Friday with an article about efforts to secure the United States'
border with Mexico erroneously located the town of Sasabe, Ariz., one of the
busiest areas for illegal crossings. It is about 120 miles west of Douglas,
Ariz. -- not about 200 miles.

GRAPHIC: Map of Arizona highlighting Sasabe.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              405 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Time to Settle in Mamaroneck

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 581 words


The struggle between Mamaroneck and its day laborers should not have become a
federal case. The village should have found a humane, effective way to bring
order to the outdoor job bazaar that has assembled for years in its public park,
either by giving a hiring site there the amenities and space it needed, or by
finding some other, better place for the men to gather. But instead of applying
enough energetic creativity to the problem, it chose energetic ticketing and a
looming police presence instead, and ended up in federal court in White Plains.

The plaintiffs, represented by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund, have accused the village of violating their right to equal protection
under the 14th Amendment. (A second argument, invoking the men's First Amendment
rights to speak freely to solicit work, was dropped because it would have
required the workers to identify themselves, something they refuse to do,
fearing police reprisal and the possible exposure of their immigration status,
or lack of it. They are known in court as John Does 1 to 4 and 6 to 8.)

Testimony in the trial ended Sept. 15, and the judge, Colleen McMahon, is
expected to return a decision soon. Both sides failed to reach a settlement
before trial. They should try again, and keep trying, even while waiting on
Judge McMahon. A negotiated agreement that restores civility in the village, and
dissipates the rancor, would be far better than a court-imposed victory or
defeat for either side.

The experiences of other communities around the country that have grappled,
often nastily, with an immigrant influx suggest that there is no reason to
believe the Mamaroneck situation will necessarily improve after a court
decision. Substituting harassment with intense resentment will not exactly be a
victory for the pro-laborer side.

The responsibility for defusing this dispute does not rest solely on the
authorities in Mamaroneck, however ill-advised their tactics may have been. The
laborers themselves, and those who speak for them, should make every effort to
minimize the problems their presence imposes on neighbors, and maximize attempts
to create good will.

Many Americans these days are not enthusiastic about immigrants in general and
day laborers in particular. Since day laborers are in public view, waiting for
work in a way that looks a lot like loitering, many people consider them the
unsightly face of immigration, the symbols of a system in chaos. Many can't
understand why men they assume to be here illegally are invoking constitutional
protections in a country they have no right to be in.

The plaintiffs may be technically on solid ground -- the Supreme Court has ruled
that the equal-protection clause applies to any person who is subject to the
laws of a particular state. To paraphrase Dr. Seuss, a person's a person, no
matter how undocumented.

But the laborers are not just in a battle to solicit work; they are fighting for
respect and tolerance, and that requires winning over hearts and minds. The
places in the country where day laborers are most tolerated, and the safest, are
those where they have organized themselves and conspicuously given something
back to the communities where they seek their livelihoods. They have cleaned up
their street corners, tidied parks and offered their sweat and labor in other
ways.

A well-organized cadre of day laborers, engaged with the village, could help
everyone find a peaceable way out of the Mamaroneck mess.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              406 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Hombres of Steel

BYLINE: By TIM MURPHY

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 348 words


IN the world of Dulce Pinzon, a 31-year-old photographer who lives in
Williamsburg, Brooklyn, Superman isn't played by some tall, square-jawed
Christopher Reeve clone but by diminutive Noe Reyes, 37, who lives and works in
her neighborhood. There, he delivers food for the Anytime restaurant, a job that
enables him to send hundreds of dollars a month back to family in Mexico.

Ms. Pinzon's Aquaman is Juventino Rosas, who until recently worked cleaning fish
at the Fulton Fish Market; he has since moved up to driving a taxi.

And Wonder Woman is Maria Luisa Romero, a woman in her 50's who works as an
attendant at the Laundromat that Ms. Pinzon uses.

All three are undocumented workers from Ms. Pinzon's home state, Puebla, which
supplies New York with a large number of its Mexican dishwashers, deli workers
and cleaning women.

A few years ago, Ms. Pinzon, a former organizer for the Retail, Wholesale and
Department Store Union, started asking the city's anonymous day laborers from
Puebla if they would pose for her in their work settings -- dressed as
superheroes.

''They're so quiet and hard-working and invisible,'' she said. ''I wanted to pay
a tribute to them.''

Of her score of subjects, Mr. Reyes was her favorite. ''He's been in New York 10
years and has put his siblings in Mexico through university with his earnings,''
she said. ''But he'd never so much as visited the Empire State Building, he's
been working so hard.''

She added: ''He's so fragile and small with his bicycle. I said to him, 'You're
going to be my Superman.' ''

The photographs, which were on view at the Queens Museum of Art during the
summer, will move to Manhattan this week for the Art(212) fair, which starts
Thursday at the 69th Regiment Armory, on Lexington Avenue and 26th Street.

Mr. Reyes was one of the subjects who attended the opening of the exhibition at
the museum in Queens.

''He had to ask a co-worker to cover for him for three hours so he could come,''
Ms. Pinzon said. ''But he loved it. He was so proud, he was actually taking
pictures of himself at the show.''   TIM MURPHY


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2006



CORRECTION: A picture caption on Sept. 24 with an article about immigrant
workers who were photographed as superheroes misidentified one of the
superheroes. Sergio Garcia, a worker, was dressed as Mr. Fantastic, the
Fantastic Four team member with an elastic body -- not as Elastic Man.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HEROES AND HEROINES -- Clockwise from top far left: Roman
Romero as the Green Lantern, Sergio Garcia as Elastic Man, Minerva Valencia as
Catwoman, Noe Reyes as Superman and Maria Luisa Romero as Wonder Woman.
(Photographs by Dulce Pinzon)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              407 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 26, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  Southwest: Texas: Green Card For Teenager

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 79 words


Young Zheng, 18, who fought for nearly four years to win asylum in the United
States after being caught with false papers, has been approved for permanent
residency, his lawyers at Fulbright & Jaworski said. Mr. Zheng, at 14, was
supposed to work off a $60,000 debt with immigrant smugglers, but he attended
school instead. After he was detained, he fought deportation to China, arguing
that he would face death. His green card is to arrive shortly.   RALPH
BLUMENTHAL (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              408 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 28, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Terror Laws Cut Resettlement of Refugees

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27


The number of refugees admitted to the United States fell 23 percent this year
because of provisions in two antiterrorism laws that have sharply reduced the
number of resettled refugees, State Department officials said Wednesday.

The laws, the USA Patriot Act and the Real ID Act, deny entry to anyone who
belongs to or has provided material support to armed rebel groups, even if that
support was coerced and even if the armed groups fought alongside American
troops or opposed authoritarian governments criticized by the Bush
administration.

The provisions have derailed the resettlement of thousands of refugees fleeing
the authoritarian government of Myanmar, formerly known as Burma; hundreds of
refugees from Vietnam and Laos who fought alongside American troops in the
Vietnam War; and dozens of Cubans who supported armed groups opposed to Fidel
Castro in the 60's, according to the State Department and the United Nations
refugee agency.

Many of the refugees were barred from the United States because, under the new
laws, they are deemed supporters of terrorist groups, even though the
organizations that they support do not appear on the State Department list of
designated terrorist groups.

The statutes have broadened the definition of terrorist groups to include any
group of two or more people who take up arms against a state, even if the group
supports the aims of American foreign policy.

A result, State Department officials say, is that administration officials will
resettle 41,200 of the 54,000 refugees whom they had expected to admit by the
end of the current fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30. That figure is the
lowest since refugee admissions plunged for nearly two years after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks.

The State Department can grant waivers for specific populations that have
supported armed groups, if they pose no threat to the United States. In May and
August, the department issued waivers for Burmese refugees who have supported
the Karen National Union, a group that opposes the government in Myanmar.

But the laws do not allow waivers for refugees who were combatants, received
military training from groups deemed to be terrorist organizations or were
members of such groups. State Department officials say a change in the law is
required to address those populations. In recent weeks, Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice has met with lawmakers in the House and Senate to discuss such
changes.

Ellen R. Sauerbrey, an assistant secretary of state, told senators on Wednesday
that the antiterrorism provisions had prevented the United States from
resettling 9,500 Burmese this fiscal year. Of that group, 1,500 are expected to
enter by Sept. 30 under issued waivers.

''We had anticipated bringing the majority, if not all of those, to the United
States,'' Ms. Sauerbrey said at a hearing of the Immigration Subcommittee of the
Senate Judiciary Committee.

She said the limited waivers meant that the resettlement of many refugees had
been indefinitely delayed. In addition to the Burmese, Ms. Sauerbrey pointed to
the Cubans and Vietnamese Montagnards.

''We are eagerly looking forward to expanding resettlement,'' she said, ''to the
degree that we can resolve some of these difficulties.''

Refugee advocacy groups, including Human Rights First and Human Rights Watch,
and conservative groups like Concerned Women for America, the National
Association of Evangelicals and American Values, say officials are not moving
swiftly enough.

Representative Joe Pitts, Republican of Pennsylvania, has proposed legislation
that would bar only members and supporters of groups designated as terrorist
organizations by the State Department.

But State Department officials say they do not expect any movement on such
legislation before Nov. 7.

Many refugee advocates fear that administration officials and members of
Congress are delaying action because they do not want to be viewed as easing up
on terrorism during an election year.

Michael J. Horowitz, a neoconservative who worked in the White House of
President Ronald Reagan and testified at the hearing on Wednesday, said in a
statement that it was ''inexcusable that for more than two years the
administration has dragged its feet'' in finding a solution for the refugees who
fought alongside Americans in Vietnam.

The antiterrorism provisions have also affected 500 asylum seekers in the United
States, whose cases have been delayed and has prevented 700 people, who have
already been deemed refugees or granted asylum, from becoming permanent
residents here for the time being.

Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, urged the administration to
redouble its efforts on behalf of the Burmese refugees and others who
desperately need to resettle. ''I know we have a lot security concerns to watch
for,'' Mr. Brownback said at the hearing. ''But there are huge populations that
are absolutely persecuted and have no other option.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assistant Secretary of State Ellen R. Sauerbrey and Jonathan
Scharfen, deputy director of citizenship and immigration for the Department of
Homeland Security, testified yesterday at Senate hearing. (Photo by David Scull
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              409 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Queens, Blacks Are the Have-Nots No More

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1516 words


Across the country, the income gap between blacks and whites remains wide, and
nowhere more so than in Manhattan. But just a river away, a very different story
is unfolding.

In Queens, the median income among black households, nearing $52,000 a year, has
surpassed that of whites in 2005, an analysis of new census data shows. No other
county in the country with a population over 65,000 can make that claim. The
gains among blacks in Queens, the city's quintessential middle-class borough,
were driven largely by the growth of two-parent families and the successes of
immigrants from the West Indies. Many live in tidy homes in verdant enclaves
like Cambria Heights, Rosedale and Laurelton, just west of the Cross Island
Parkway and the border with Nassau County.

David Veron, a 45-year-old lawyer, is one of them. He estimates that the house
in St. Albans that he bought with his wife, Nitchel, three years ago for about
$320,000 has nearly doubled in value since they renovated it. Two-family homes
priced at $600,000 and more seem to be sprouting on every vacant lot, he says.

''Southeast Queens, especially, had a heavy influx of West Indian folks in the
late 80's and early 90's,'' said Mr. Veron, who, like his 31-year-old wife, was
born on the island of Jamaica. ''Those individuals came here to pursue an
opportunity, and part of that opportunity was an education,'' he said. ''A large
percentage are college graduates. We're now maturing and reaching the peak of
our earning capacity.''

Richard P. Nathan, co-director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government in Albany, called Queens ''the flip side of the underclass.''

''It really is the best illustration that the stereotype of blacks living in
dangerous, concentrated, poor, slum, urban neighborhoods is misleading and
doesn't predominate,'' he said.

Andrew A. Beveridge, a Queens College demographer who analyzed results of the
Census Bureau's 2005 American Community Survey, released in August, for The New
York Times, said of the trend: ''It started in the early 1990's, and now it's
consolidated. They're married-couple families living the American dream in
southeast Queens.''

In 1994, an analysis for The Times found that in some categories, the median
income of black households in Queens was slightly higher than that of whites --
a milestone in itself. By 2000, whites had pulled slightly ahead. But blacks
have since rebounded.

The only other places where black household income is higher than among whites
are much smaller than Queens, like Mount Vernon in Westchester, Pembroke Pines,
Fla.; Brockton, Mass.; and Rialto, Calif. Most of the others also have
relatively few blacks or are poor.

But Queens is unique not only because it is home to about two million people,
but also because both blacks and whites there make more than the national median
income, about $46,000.

Even as blacks have surged ahead of whites in Queens, over all they have fallen
behind in Manhattan. With the middle class there shrinking, those remaining are
largely either the wealthy, who are predominantly white, or the poor, who are
mostly black and Hispanic, the new census data shows.

Median income among blacks in Manhattan was $28,116, compared with $86,494 among
whites, the widest gap of any large county in the country.

In contrast, the middle-class black neighborhoods of Queens evoke the ''zones of
emergence'' that nurtured economically rising European immigrants a century ago,
experts say. ''It's how the Irish, the Italians, the Jews got out of the
slums,'' Professor Nathan said.

Despite the economic progress among blacks in Queens, income gaps still endure
within the borough's black community, where immigrants, mostly from the
Caribbean, are generally doing better than American-born blacks.

''Racism and the lack of opportunity created a big gap and kind of put us at a
deeper disadvantage,'' said Steven Dennison, an American-born black resident of
Springfield Gardens.

Mr. Dennison, a 49-year-old electrical contractor, has four children. One is
getting her doctoral degree; another will graduate from college this school
year. ''It starts with the school system,'' Mr. Dennison said.

Mr. Vernon, the lawyer from Jamaica, said: ''It's just that the people who left
the Caribbean to come here are self-starters. It only stands to reason they
would be more aggressive in pursuing their goals. And that creates a
separation.''

Housing patterns do, too. While blacks make more than whites -- even those in
the borough's wealthiest neighborhoods, including Douglaston -- they account for
fewer than 1 in 20 residents in some of those communities. And among blacks
themselves, there are disparities, depending on where they live.

According to the latest analysis, black households in Queens reported a median
income of $51,836 compared with $50,960 for non-Hispanic whites (and $52,998 for
Asians and $43,927 among Hispanic people).

Among married couples in Queens, the gap was even greater: $78,070 among blacks,
higher than any other racial or ethnic group, and $74,503 among whites.

Hector Ricketts, 50, lives with his wife, Opal, a legal secretary, and their
three children in Rosedale. A Jamaican immigrant, he has a master's degree in
health care administration, but after he was laid off more than a decade ago he
realized that he wanted to be an entrepreneur. He established a commuter van
service.

''When immigrants come here, they're not accustomed to social programs,'' he
said, ''and when they see opportunities they had no access to -- tuition or
academic or practical training -- they are God-sent, and they use those programs
to build themselves and move forward.''

Immigrants helped propel the gains among blacks. The median income of
foreign-born black households was $61,151, compared with $45,864 for
American-born blacks. The disparity was even more pronounced among black married
couples.

The median for married black immigrants was $84,338, nearly as much as for
native-born white couples. For married American-born blacks, it was $70,324.

One reason for the shifting income pattern is that some wealthier whites have
moved away.

''As non-Hispanic whites have gotten richer, they have left Queens for the Long
Island suburbs, leaving behind just middle-class whites,'' said Professor Edward
N. Wolff, an economist at New York University. ''Since home ownership is easier
for whites than blacks in the suburbs -- mortgages are easier to get for whites
-- the middle-class whites left in Queens have been relatively poor.
Middle-class black families have had a harder time buying homes in the Long
Island suburbs, so that blacks that remain in Queens are relatively affluent.''

The white median also appeared to have been depressed slightly by the
disproportionate number of elderly whites on fixed incomes.

But even among the elderly, blacks fared better. Black households headed by a
person older than 65 reported a median income of $35,977, compared with $28,232
for white households.

Lloyd Hicks, 77, who moved to Cambria Heights from Harlem in 1959, used to run a
freight-forwarding business near Kennedy Airport. His wife, Elvira, 71, was a
teacher. Both were born in New York City, but have roots in Trinidad. He has a
bachelor's degree in business. She has a master's in education.

''Education was always something the families from the islands thought the
children should have,'' Mr. Hicks said.

In addition to the larger share of whites who are elderly, said Andrew Hacker, a
Queens College political scientist, ''black Queens families usually need two
earners to get to parity with working whites.''

Kenneth C. Holder, 46, a former prosecutor who was elected to a Civil Court
judgeship last year, was born in London of Jamaican and Guyanese parents and
grew up in Laurelton. His wife, Sharon, who is Guyanese, is a secretary at a
Manhattan law firm. They own a home in Rosedale, where they live with their
three sons.

''Queens has a lot of good places to live; I could move, but why?'' Mr. Holder
said. ''There are quite a number of two-parent households and a lot of ancillary
services available for youth, put up by organized block associations and
churches, like any middle-class area.''

In smaller categories, the numbers become less precise. Still, for households
headed by a man, median income was $61,151 for blacks and $54,537 for whites.
Among households headed by a woman, the black and white medians were the same:
$50,960.

Of the more than 800,000 households in Queens, according to the Census Bureau's
2005 American Community Survey, about 39 percent are white, 23 percent are
Hispanic, 18 percent are Asian, and 17 percent are black -- suggesting multiple
hues rather than monotone black and white.

''It is wrong to say that America is 'fast becoming two nations' the way the
Kerner Commission did,'' said Professor Nathan, who was the research director
for the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders in 1968 and disagreed
with its conclusion. ''It might be, though, that it was more true then than it
is now.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Cambria Heights neighborhood in Queens, a county that
belies the ''stereotype of blacks living in dangerous, concentrated, poor, slum,
urban neighborhoods,'' one policy expert says. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The
New York Times)(pg. 29)
Elvira and Lloyd Hicks at home in Cambria Heights, where they moved from Harlem
in 1959.
Kenneth C. Holder, elected to a judgeship last year, says he could move from
Queens, ''but why?'' (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg.
31)Chart: ''Incomes in Queens''Median income in 2005 for Queens
households.BLACK, NON-HISPANIC: $51,836WHITE, NON-HISPANIC: 50,960ASIAN:
52,998HISPANIC (may be of any race): 43,927(Source by Analysis of census data by
Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 29)Chart:
''Racial Income Gap''A large gap between the median incomes of racial groups
among foreign-born residents has helped propel the overall income of blacks
above that of whites in Queens.BLACK, NON-HISPANICHead of household is native
born: 45,864Head of household is foreign born: 61,151Married couple household:
78,070WHITE, NON-HISPANICHead of household is native born: 53,711Head of
household is foreign born: 45,864Married couple household: 74,503ASIANHead of
household is native born: 76,439Head of household is foreign born: 51,979Married
couple household: 56,361HISPANIC (may be of any race)Head of household is native
born: 50,654Head of household is foreign born: 41,685Married couple household:
50,960(Source by Analysis of census data by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College
Department of Sociology
 figures for 2005)(pg. 31)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              410 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shelter From the Storm

BYLINE: By JOHNNY DWYER

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2609 words


SHORTLY after 1 a.m. on a drizzly July night, Hadrick and Abraham Julu, two trim
brothers from Liberia, stared at the door of Room 214 of the Westway Motel in
East Elmhurst, Queens, and then at each other. Hadrick, who held the room's key
card in one hand and the skinny forearm of their ailing father in the other,
jiggled the door's handle, but it would not budge. The brothers had never seen a
door that worked this way. But they kept trying, mindful that eight of their
siblings, the youngest of them 12, were waiting slumped and exhausted on benches
in the lobby.

Eventually, the Julus managed to enter their rooms, and they did so with great
relief. Twenty-five hours had elapsed between their departure from a refugee
camp in Ghana and their arrival at the Westway Motel, a pair of low-rise,
khaki-colored buildings just west of La Guardia Airport.

The Julus' journey had been full of dazzling, sometimes disturbing firsts: the
family's first airplane flight, their first moments in America, the first time
they ate three meals in a single day. Most important, the trip was the first
time that the family, which had fled war-torn Liberia in 1989, had moved from
one country to the next without being in danger.

But for the Westway, the Julus' arrival represented business as usual. For 21
years, the 122-room motel has been the initial stop in a new life for that most
desperate category of immigrant: the refugee fleeing war or persecution. The
Westway, where refugees stay overnight before beginning the next leg of their
journey to safety, is one of only eight motels nationwide that serve this role,
and the only one in New York. For these motels, the most important day of the
year comes in early autumn, when the president sets the exact number of refugees
that will be admitted to the United States in the following 12 months.

This year, the day is imminent. On Wednesday, a State Department official
testified before a Senate subcommittee that President Bush had proposed a 2007
ceiling of 70,000 refugees, the same number authorized for the 2006 fiscal year.
On Friday, a spokesman for the State Department, Peter Eisenhauer, said that the
final proposal had just been forwarded to the White House for the president's
signature.

For the countless refugees worldwide clamoring for entry to America, this number
is critical. But it does not even hint at the deep joy felt by the individual
refugee who, after long trial and tribulation, has finally found a haven in
America.

''When the flight landed,'' said Hadrick, 20, weary but smiling broadly on that
night in Room 214, ''I was like, 'Wow!' ''

Later, he added, ''Every breath is a beginning.''

Ellis Island on the Grand Central

  A modest red sign along the Grand Central Parkway reads ''Westway Motel,'' and
it may be the only beacon to this singular institution. The motel, which abuts
the parkway and sits opposite St. Michael's Cemetery, is easy to miss. Its small
buildings are only three stories high, barely registering among the private
homes and apartment complexes in a working-class, ethnically mixed neighborhood.

Guests trickle into the Westway throughout the day. Not all are refugees. Among
them are delayed travelers, weary truckers, and couples whose baggage consists
of little more than a six-pack and a shared look of expectation. A room rents
for $111 for the night, though what the motel tactfully describes as ''short
stays'' are available for less.

The Westway, which was built to serve airport business, opened in the early
1960's, but only in 1985, at the request of the International Organization for
Migration, did it begin to house refugees. That agency, created in 1951 by the
United States and some allies to cope with refugees from World War II, arranged
for the motel to furnish rooms for people needing a way station en route to more
permanent settlement.

''The Westway is like the Ellis Island of years ago,'' said Barbara Letizia, a
desk clerk who began working at the motel a few years before the first refugees
checked in. But unlike arrivals at Ellis Island, the immigrants entering the
Westway are exclusively refugees -- although Westway staff members refer to them
as ''I.O.M.'s,'' after the agency that handles their travel arrangements.
Between 1990 and this past July, an estimated 170,000 refugees, nearly
one-quarter of the 700,000 refugees who passed through Kennedy Airport during
that time, have spent a night at the Westway.

At first glance, the lobby looks like that of any motel slightly past its prime.
Two pay phones and four vending machines line the walls. On the window of the
desk clerk's office is a gold-lettered placard that reads, ''Cigarettes for
Sale.'' But below that notice is a less familiar sign: it tells guests where
they should leave their bags -- in Cyrillic letters. That is not surprising;
most of the refugees at the Westway do not speak English.

In many respects, the Westway lobby is a time machine, where political
cataclysms from decades long past still reverberate. The Julus' journey, for
example, began with the brutal civil and tribal wars that raged in West Africa
during the late 1980's and the early 90's; other recent arrivals were uprooted
by the disintegration of the Soviet Union around the same time.

''I've had the Vietnamese boat people, Armenians, the Polish, Iranians, the
Russian Jews, the Africans,'' said Alex Beskrownyj, the I.O.M. operations
manager at Kennedy Airport for 25 years. ''And of course, after they opened the
borders for the Soviet Union, we started getting the Ukrainians.''

By the time a family of refugees have passed through the motel's glass doors,
they have typically reached the end of a long bureaucratic road. Not only must
they pass rigorous screenings by the Department of Homeland Security and the
Department of State, but the resettlements they seek are pretty much a last
resort.

''We're trying very hard to bring in people who have a real need, that they've
been enduring a situation that seems to have no solution,'' said Theresa Rusch,
admissions director of the State Department's Bureau of Population, Refugees and
Migration.

The preferred solution for refugees is repatriation, but often that is
impossible for one of two reasons. Some, like the Hmong people of Laos, are
stateless; no country recognizes them as citizens. For others, like the Julus, a
homeland still exists, but to return would bring danger, possibly death.

''Some people are afraid to go back to Liberia because, one, they don't have
anything; two, they are being hunted,'' Hadrick Julu said. ''Like in our case,
those who drove us out of our country, they are still alive.''

Even those who clearly qualify as refugees are lucky to make it to America. The
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that there are 9.2
million refugees worldwide, meaning that the number of admissions proposed by
the Bush administration for 2007 is comparatively minuscule. Moreover, because
of heightened security policies and limited funds since 9/11, fewer refugees
have been admitted than even the low ceilings have allowed. In the 2005 fiscal
year, for example, though the official ceiling was 70,000, the State Department
could afford to accommodate only 54,000 arrivals, and in the fiscal year that
ended yesterday, the number of arrivals was only about 41,000. Nonetheless, the
United States' resettlement program is the largest of any country.

The Westway, Dusk to Dawn

  A day at the Westway begins, and ends, with refugees on the move. In the
afternoon, flights arrive from places like Nairobi, Riyadh and Moscow, and
within an hour or two the I.O.M. has delivered some of those passengers to the
motel door. Early the next morning, those same guests depart, on their way to
new homes in Oklahoma City, Minneapolis, Boston -- wherever.

''This is their first lifeline,'' said Ms. Letizia, the desk clerk. ''They come
here. They eat. They sleep. Then the next morning, they just disperse all over
the country.''

On a slow day, only a single refugee family might arrive at the Westway, but in
an average week, more than 200 refugees will check in. Mohammad Rasouly, an
I.O.M. employee who has been squiring refugees in and out of the Westway for 15
years, does not need a log-in sheet to count the arrivals. ''I know who is a
refugee,'' he said. ''I can separate them from a regular person. By face. By
bags.''

The evening the Julus checked in, Mr. Rasouly sat in the motel's lobby awaiting
more of the day's arrivals. A 48-year-old Afghani, Mr. Rasouly usually greets
guests wearing a vest sporting his agency's logo -- a soft blue globe framing a
man, a woman and a child. The logo is seen all over the Westway, on things like
the name tags the refugees wear and the small plastic bags in which they carry
their travel documents.

To Ms. Letizia, sitting at the front desk, the refugees look confused, tired and
disheveled. But not always.

''We did have one family that stands out -- they had 13 children,'' said Ms.
Letizia, recalling a young Russian mother. ''She had another one on the way. She
had a little tribe. They were all in line, in order, clean, well dressed. It was
amazing. They were like steps: one blond, blue-eyed after the other.''

Sometimes the refugees arrive strikingly unprepared. ''During the winter there
have been people that come in here with barely anything on them for winter
clothes,'' said Renee Weinberg, the motel's manager. ''So we've gone out to
stores to get them socks and jackets, and given them stuff that we had from
other donations.''

Ms. Letizia recalled a young boy who simply did not want to live in the United
States. ''When the van stopped, he ran away,'' she said. ''But when we got him
back, he ate his food, then the next day it was over and done with.''

With old people, the solutions are more elusive. ''The sad reality is, they wait
for forever to get here, and they bring their elderly parents,'' Ms. Letizia
said. ''And some of them are in their 90's. They're going to die here and not at
home. You can see the sadness in them.''

Ms. Letizia's grandfather emigrated from Italy around World War I and built the
home in Queens that her parents still live in.

''I come from here and I struggle,'' she said. ''I don't know how they do it.''

Family Without a Country

  Shortly after 5 p.m. on the day the Julus arrived, a van carrying three other
families pulled into the motel parking lot. All were Meskhetian Turks, an ethnic
group that Stalin had deported from Georgia to Uzbekistan more than a half
century ago.

Mr. Rasouly, the I.O.M. official, strode out to meet them, instructing the men,
in Russian, to wait for their luggage, and then leading the women into the
lobby.

A half-hour later, one of the three families, the Ibragimovs, rested in a room
overlooking the motel's parking lot. Makhamad Ibragimov, the father, finished
off the Styrofoam container of chicken and rice that a Westway porter had
brought to him; the mother, Aziza, did not touch her food. Their three sons,
ranging from 12 to 21 years old, sat and listened intently as their father
recounted the details of their journey.

Unlike the Julus, the Ibragimovs are stateless. As Mr. Ibragimov describes their
situation, he and his wife were born in Uzbekistan and were citizens of the
Soviet Union, but after its dissolution in 1991, they fled to Russia to escape
violence against Meskhetian Turks. Then, because Russia denied citizenship to
their ethnic group, the family moved to Belgrade. A decade later, the family
returned to a region in southern Russia called Krasnodar, but since they were
not Russian citizens, they were unable to work. And so they became refugees.

After dinner, Mr. Ibragimov's sons drifted out into the motel parking lot. As
traffic streamed by on the Grand Central, a banana yellow Ford Mustang
convertible turned into the entrance, and the driver raised the car's top. The
brothers smiled. They were in America.

The next morning, the family would travel to Charlottesville, Va., where they
would be reunited with Mrs. Ibragimov's parents and sister, and begin their new
lives.

''We know why we choose America,'' Mr. Ibragimov said. ''We lived in a Muslim
country. We were Muslim, but they were Muslim, too, and they didn't let us to
live there. But we know how many nationalities, how many different religions,
live in America.''

Palm Butter and Prayer

  Room 214, where three members of the Julu family spent their first night in
America, was a tidy, spare space with off-white walls and floral comforters on
the two queen beds. On the outlets were childproof plastic plugs, a precaution
for guests unfamiliar with electricity. By comparison, at the family's previous
home, the Buduburam Refugee Settlement in Ghana, the floors were dirt, the beds
mats, the only light came from a single kerosene lamp, and the bush served as
the bathroom.

But not all the changes were for the better. ''Especially on the flight, the
food,'' said Hadrick, referring to the rich meals of chicken and fruit juice.
''I wanted to vomit.''

Their father, Kporkwehyea, though only 53, is gaunt and frail and suffers from
congestive heart failure. ''He took the sickness during the war,'' Hadrick said.
''He was stabbed with a knife. By rebels.''

The war in Liberia had torn into the Julu family, leaving two uncles and an aunt
dead, and sending the father and sons into the bush and a 16-year exile.
Although they sought refuge in the Ivory Coast, the war quickly followed them
there. In 1995, they arrived at Buduburam, a sprawling camp that was home to
42,000 refugees. There, by gardening and making bricks, they survived on barely
$2 a day.

Last December, the family applied for resettlement in the United States. Because
another brother and sister had been resettled in Boston previously, the
remaining relatives were eligible for resettlement under the principle of
''family reunification.''

The family's departure was set for July 27. On their last night in the camp,
they had a celebratory meal of cassava leaves, palm butter and fufu, a
traditional West African dumpling. ''During that little gathering,'' Hadrick
said, ''we pray because we are Christians.''

Prayers were the one constant on their journey to America. Before dawn on the
day of their flight, the Julus prayed with friends and relatives in the refugee
camp parking lot. They prayed as their plane taxied down the runway at the
airport in Ghana, and as it pushed through the clouds approaching New York.
After putting their father to bed that night at the Westway, Abraham and Hadrick
Julu knelt before their bed in Room 214, and prayed again.

By late September, the Julus had been settled in a Boston suburb. The father,
who had been hospitalized, had been released and was on the mend.

But the fears that haunt refugees followed Hadrick north. He had heard about the
Big Dig, Boston's troubled highway tunnel construction project, and about the
recent collapse of part of its roof. When he rides in a car, he worries about
something happening. ''Each time when I was traveling through tunnels,'' he
said, ''I feel so afraid.''

The family now lives in a four-room apartment in the town of Malden, Mass. The
younger children have entered high school; the older ones are looking for jobs.
The Julus have found a nearby church, the Church of the Nazarene in Malden,
where they can worship.

Hadrick is exploring his chances of attending Bunker Hill Community College in
Boston. In speaking with college officials, he is learning about ''student
loans'' and ''financial aid'' -- new words for his new life in America.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: WAY STATION -- The Westway, above, in East Elmhurst, Queens, is
the first home in America for many refugees, top, who later fly to their final
stop, and a new life. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg.
1)
KICKING BACK, BRIEFLY -- Two brothers of the Ibragimov family, who arrived from
southern Russia with their parents, spent a little time hanging out in the
Westway parking lot.
 COMING TO AMERICA -- Refugees on a Westway Motel bus, above, including the 11
members of the Julu family from Liberia, peered out at their new country. They
awaited check-in, above right, in the motel lobby, and the next morning, right,
packed up for their flight to Boston. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New
York Times)(pg. 10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              411 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Last Words

BYLINE: By Walter Benn Michaels.

Walter Benn Michaels teaches English at the University of Illinois, Chicago. His
new book, ''The Trouble With Diversity,'' will be published this month.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-01-06: IDEA LAB;
Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1052 words


The subject of disappearing languages has been in the news for some time -- the
standard prediction is that roughly half of the 6,000 languages currently spoken
are, as Unesco puts it, ''doomed'' -- but it has recently been given new impetus
in the United States by the fear expressed by some conservative commentators
that English is being added to the list. Will American English survive ''the
immigrant flood'' of Spanish-speaking migrants, recent columns in the weekly
Human Events have asked. Their answer is, ''tragically,'' no. But would it
really be a tragedy if English vanished?

Of course, the idea that English is a vanishing language seems a little
implausible (it's the second-most-spoken language in the world), but then it was
only a few years ago that the U.S. dominated world basketball, and look what has
happened there. Furthermore, there's a long history on this continent of
immigrant languages killing off the indigenous ones. Scholars believe that there
used to be as many as 300 Native American languages. Now there are fewer than
200. What happened? Well, one thing that happened was that missionaries and the
federal government did their best to get the Indians to stop talking in what
J.D.C. Atkins, a 19th-century commissioner of Indian affairs, called their
''barbarous dialect'' and to start talking in ''civilized'' languages like
English. And another was that even when they couldn't kill off the language,
they were often quite effective at killing off the people who spoke it. Hence
English flourished, and languages like Tlingit, for example, didn't.

Things are obviously better today. Not only are almost no English speakers being
murdered by linguistically evangelizing Mexicans; no Spanish speakers are
complaining about how barbarous English is. In fact, few people today think that
any languages are either barbarous or civilized. ''No language,'' as the
linguist John Edwards has written, ''can be described as better or worse than
another on purely linguistic grounds''; all ''languages are always sufficient
for the needs of their speakers.'' Which is why the effort to get people to stop
speaking in their own tongues (taking them away to special boarding schools,
punishing them when they didn't speak English) and to start speaking in yours
looked then, and still looks now, like an essentially arbitrary use of power.
Theirs is just as good as yours: why should they give it up?

So the good news is that progress has been made; no one any longer thinks that
one language is better than another. But the bad news is that many languages are
dying anyway. In fact, for various social and economic reasons, they are dying
faster than ever. Many of the Native American languages that still exist are
spoken by a very few old people, and while no one is trying to force them to
stop speaking whatever it is they speak, no one is having much success in
persuading their children and grandchildren to continue speaking it. So where
the tragic figure of 19th-century language loss was a child discouraged from
speaking her own language and made to speak English instead, the tragic figure
of 21st-century language loss is an elder allowed, and even encouraged, to speak
her own language but with no one around to speak it to. The 19th-century problem
was about people who couldn't use their languages; the problem now is about the
languages themselves -- ''tragically,'' they're disappearing.

But why would it be a tragedy if English disappeared? Why is it a tragedy if
Tlingit disappears? Although we can all agree it's a bad thing to try to get
people to stop using their language, it's hard to see why it's a bad thing if
their language disappears. Why? Because the very thing that made it a mistake
for the missionaries to try to stop people from speaking Native American
languages (it's not as if English was better) makes it a mistake to care whether
people continue to speak Native American languages (it's not as if English is
worse).

We can see the point clearly by pretending for a second that English really is
starting to vanish. Suppose our children start speaking a little Spanish, our
grandchildren become bilingual and our great-grandchildren speak only Spanish.
Since we can't speak Spanish, we can't talk to them. But if that's a problem, it
won't last for long, and once it is solved, there will be no problem left. Just
as the language we speak does everything we need it to do, the language they
speak will do everything they need it to do. No doubt it's unfortunate that our
descendants won't be able to read Shakespeare in the original. But, truth to
tell, we're not doing much of that ourselves anyway. It's not as if we're native
speakers of Elizabethan English. That's why there's a market for ''No Fear
Shakespeare'': the Bard on one page; a ''translation into modern English -- the
kind of English people actually speak today'' on the other. And, of course,
instead of Shakespeare and Joyce, our descendants will be able to read Cervantes
and Borges -- the classics of their literature if not of ours.

Which is the whole point. Our language is the one we speak, not the one our
ancestors spoke. My great-grandparents could read only Yiddish. Am I supposed to
feel a stronger connection to Abramovich's ''Kliatche'' (''Mare''), a book I
never heard of until I looked up Yiddish classics on the Web two minutes ago,
than, say, to ''Vanity Fair,'' a book my ancestors wouldn't have understood one
word of? And are my descendants supposed to feel they are losing their cultural
heritage just because the old books they are reading are not the same as the old
books I read?

Obviously not. Their cultural heritage will be the books they read; their
language will be the one they speak. A language will have been lost, but like
the old joke about the great train robbery (no loss of train), no one will have
lost his language. And no one will have lost his literature or his cultural
heritage or what our English supremacists say they most want to retain, their
American identity. You can read ''No Fear Cervantes'' in Spanish; you can sing
''The Star-Spangled Banner'' in Spanish; you can invade Iraq in Spanish; you can
even lose the finals of the World Basketball Championship in Spanish. Although
this year (Spain 70, Greece 47), it didn't happen.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tamara Shopsin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              412 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bridging a Racial Rift That Isn't Black and White

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2113 words

DATELINE: WILLACOOCHEE, Ga.


The ministers close their eyes and raise their voices to the heavens and, for a
moment, they are colorless. Two men who grew up desperately poor, who picked
tobacco in the fields and hauled boxes at Wal-Mart and whose life journeys
ultimately led them to the Lord and to each other.

''It's like praying with a brother,'' said the Rev. Harvey Williams Jr., 54, who
is black.

''He looks out for me and I look out for him,'' said the Rev. Atanacio Gaona,
45, who is a Mexican immigrant. ''In the eyes of the Lord, there are no
colors.''

In this immigrant boomtown in Atkinson County, about 45 miles north of the
Florida border, the ministers have forged a rare friendship that transcends the
deep divide between blacks and Hispanics here.

For centuries, the South has been defined by the color line and the struggle for
accommodation between blacks and whites. But the arrival of hundreds of
thousands of Hispanic immigrants over the past decade is quietly changing the
dynamics of race relations in many Southern towns.

The two pastors find that the fault lines that separate their communities
sometimes test their friendship and challenge their efforts to bring blacks and
Hispanics closer together.

Blacks here, who had settled into a familiar, if sometimes uneasy, relationship
with whites, are now outnumbered by Hispanics. The two groups, who often live
and work side by side, compete fiercely for working-class jobs and government
resources. By several measures, blacks are already losing ground.

The jobless rate for black men in Georgia is nearly triple that of Hispanic men,
labor statistics show. More blacks than Hispanics fail to meet minimum standards
in Atkinson County public schools. And many blacks express anguish at being
supplanted by immigrants who know little of their history and sometimes treat
them with disdain as they fill factory jobs, buy property, open small businesses
and scale the economic ladder.

''If you have 10 factory openings, I would say Hispanics would get the majority
of the jobs now,'' said Joyce Taylor, the Atkinson County clerk, who is black.
''And if you look at the little grocery stores, there are more Hispanic
businesses than black businesses.''

''It's kind of scary,'' said Ms. Taylor, 44, whose daughter was laid off from a
factory here. ''My children, looking forward, it may be harder for them.''

Some Hispanics say African-Americans treat them with hostility and disparage
them with slurs, even though blacks know the sting of racism all too well. They
say many blacks are jealous of their progress and resent the fact that whites,
who dominate the business sector, look increasingly to Hispanics to fill work
forces. Blacks say employers favor immigrants because they work for less money.

An Area of Intense Feelings

  The killing of six Mexican farm workers in a robbery last year in Tifton,
about 30 miles away -- and the arrest of four black men in the case -- has
heightened the friction. Nothing so violent has occurred here, but some
Hispanics say black criminals focus on immigrants in this town, too.

Speaking of blacks, Benito Gonzalez, 51, a Mexican who has worked alongside them
at a poultry plant, said: ''They don't like to work, and they're always in jail.
If there's hard work to be done, the blacks, they leave and they don't come
back. That's why the bosses prefer Mexicans and why there are so many Mexicans
working in the factories here.''

Such images stoke the debate over how to overcome tensions, which flared
nationally this year when some African-Americans expressed anger and unease as
immigrant groups hailed efforts to legalize illegal immigrants as a new civil
rights movement. Although the push in Congress to create a guest-worker program
has stalled, concerns about competition between black and immigrant low-wage
workers remain.

Those feelings resonate with particular intensity in the South, home to the
nation's largest share of African-Americans and its fastest-growing population
of immigrants, according to an analysis of census data by William H. Frey, a
demographer at the Brookings Institution.

The two Pentecostal ministers who pray together are men of faith who say they
believe that blacks and Hispanics should be allies in the struggle to overcome
discrimination and economic adversity, even though they acknowledge that
interethnic unity is often hard to come by.

Mr. Williams, a thoughtful man who studied psychology in community college,
ruminates in a weekly newspaper column on topics like spirituality, ethnic
relations and his recovery from cocaine addiction 20 years ago.

Mr. Gaona, whose boyish looks belie his intensity, left school after second
grade to help his father work the fields in Mexico. He entered the United States
illegally and started picking tobacco here when he was 24. Over the past decade,
he has received his citizenship and built his church from the ground up.

The two men met working on a Wal-Mart warehouse floor in neighboring Coffee
County around 1993 when Mr. Gaona was starting to deepen his faith and Mr.
Williams, already a pastor, was looking for a ride to work.

Neither expected much from the acquaintanceship.

Mr. Gaona, who said his perceptions of black Americans were shaped in Mexico by
news reports of crime and violence in poor urban areas, recalled, ''I was
thinking: 'He's black. Who knows what he wants from me?' I was just trying to
keep my distance.''

Mr. Williams said he never envisioned a friendship because he had never known
blacks and Hispanics to be friends.

''I think I probably saw him as being a Hispanic,' he said, ''and I was only
going to get so close.''

Over the next five years, in their hourlong weekday commuting trip in Mr.
Gaona's 1988 Oldsmobile and later in Mr. Williams's 1982 Ford station wagon,
they discovered common ground. Both are divorced fathers. Mr. Williams has two
sons and two daughters. Mr. Gaona has five boys.

Both grew up poor, working in the fields. And both were trying to advance at
Wal-Mart and searching for pathways to God. It was Mr. Williams who helped
persuade Mr. Gaona to quit Wal-Mart to open the first Spanish-language church in
this town.

Today, the men are remarried, full-time ministers who chat by telephone and
disregard the diners at local restaurants who still gawk at the sight of a black
man and a Hispanic man eating together.

But they also remain painfully aware of the fear and prejudice that remain in
their communities.

Mr. Williams, who leads a working- and middle-class congregation of teachers,
Civil Service workers and factory workers at the Union Holiness House of
Deliverance, shakes his head as he describes the jokes about Mexicans with poor
hygiene that circulate among some black people he knows.

''It was not so long ago that we were the object of jokes,'' Mr. Williams said.
''I'm constantly having to remind people.''

Mr. Gaona, whose flock at the Iglesia Alfa y Omega is dominated by factory and
farm workers, says his members often describe American blacks as moyos, a
derogatory Spanish term that sometimes refers to a black insect. He used the
term, too, he admits, before he found God and his friend Mr. Williams.

''Every now and then, I remind them that we need to respect people, no matter
how they look or their color,'' Mr. Gaona said. "But mostly, we don't know them,
and they don't know us. There's no real communication going on.''

Gaps and Similarities

  The tension simmers just below the surface in the quiet communities of
bungalows and trailers where the two churches are situated. Five years ago,
these neighborhoods were overwhelmingly black. Today, Hispanics and blacks
account for 21 percent and 19 percent of the county population of about 8,000,
respectively.

Lyrical Spanish chatter competes with the sweet Georgia drawl as blacks and
Hispanics share streets, assembly lines, classrooms -- and hardships -- that
could prove to be the basis of community and political alliances. The two groups
appear more likely to be poor than whites. About 36 percent of Hispanics and 31
percent of blacks live in poverty in Atkinson County, census data shows; 17
percent of whites are poor.

The two ethnic groups report experiencing some discrimination from non-Hispanic
whites, who account for 60 percent of the population, and they view the
blue-collar jobs in the factories that manufacture industrial fabrics and mobile
homes as steppingstones to prosperity.

School administrators and sociologists suggest that the gap between blacks and
Hispanics in employment and education may stem in part from immigrant parents
who push their children harder to succeed in schools and the immigrant zeal to
find work, regardless of how much it pays.

Many black adults, who typically have more formal education than new immigrants,
seethe at the disparities. In a town where neighborliness is entrenched, blacks
and Hispanics often treat one another warily.

It is hard to envision such tension in the ministers' friendship, particularly
as they laugh amid the wooden pews in Mr. Williams's church. But in many ways,
they, too, keep their distance.

Despite more than 10 years' friendship, the two have never dined in each other's
home. Their wives and children have never met, nor have their congregations.

Mr. Gaona does not know the black families who live near him. And he has never
addressed Mr. Williams's congregation, even though his friend has invited him
several times. The minister says he feels uncomfortable preaching in English.

Mr. Williams, who has spoken at his friend's church twice, says there is more to
it. (Mr. Gaona's English, after all, is quite good.)

''There's still a barrier there,'' Mr. Williams said.

He said the worshippers in Mr. Gaona's church seemed reluctant to mingle with
him after his guest sermons there several years ago.

''They are like standing on the side, you know, with their heads down as if
waiting for me to leave,'' he recounted. ''They're uncomfortable. And that's one
reason for not visiting him any more than I do.

''It's one of my goals in life, to break down these nationality walls. But
people are pretty divided. I just don't know if that's going to change.''

Mr. Williams concedes that he, too, strives to do better. He does not know the
name of the Hispanic family that lives near him. For a time, he refused to wave
to Hispanic drivers on the road because they often hurt his feelings by ignoring
him and the Southern tradition of greeting strangers. He has since decided to
wave -- no matter what.

His wife, who did not grow up around immigrants, still feels a bit uncomfortable
socializing with Hispanics, despite his long friendship with the Hispanic
pastor.

A Shoulder to Lean On

  Mr. Gaona said he was recently taken aback when his 5-year-old came home from
school and described his black classmates as moyos, the aspersion.

'' 'Why you need to call them like that?' '' Mr. Gaona said he asked his son.
''I'm trying to share with him that's not right. But that's what he hears.''

Still, on most days the two men put aside such awkwardness and focus on
supporting each other.

When Mr. Gaona's computer became infected with a virus, he called Mr. Williams,
who stopped by to help repair it. When state officials refused to renew his
brother's driving license because his immigration papers were not in order, Mr.
Gaona called Mr. Williams in frustration.

Mr. Williams relies on Mr. Gaona to interview Hispanic immigrants who ask to
rent his church's social hall for parties. And it was his respect for the
Hispanic pastor that helped persuade him to use his newspaper column to chastise
Americans who disparaged the newcomers.

''I believe that rather than be angry or envy those who have came to America and
found success, we ought to be learning from them,'' Mr. Williams wrote.

As the ministers meandered through their changing neighborhoods one afternoon,
they considered taking their friendship to another level by preaching a joint
service for their congregations. Though they knew it might never happen, they
envisioned Spanish speakers and English speakers, newcomers and long timers'
holding hands and praying beneath the oak trees.

On that sultry summer afternoon, it felt good to dream about the possibility.
Somehow, it felt like it just might be the start of something.

''We'll get together one day soon and do one out in the open,'' Mr. Gaona said.

Mr. Williams replied: ''That sounds good. That sounds good. We'll do that.''

The Latino South

  This is the second article in an occasional series looking at aspects of
Hispanic life in the South. Other articles will deal with economic and social
trends.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE LATINO SOUTH: A New Rivalry

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Revs. Atanacio Gaona, left, and Harvey Williams Jr. in
Willacoochee, Ga., where the two men each have a church. They have forged a
friendship that transcends the divide between Hispanics and blacks.
 Mr. Gaona's church, top, in Willacoochee, where Hispanics are a growing
presence, according to census data. At a lumber company, Gregorio Hernandez,
left, a Mexican immigrant, worked alongside Jesse Daniels. (Photographs by Erik
S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. A19)Map of Georgia highlighting
Willacoochee. (pg. A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              413 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Some Pushcart Vendors, Grim Outlook Is Revealed

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words


Years of tough oversight and steep fines have left street vendors in Lower
Manhattan in a precarious economic state, barely able to make a living at a time
when most vendors are educated, law-abiding immigrants who increasingly support
large families both overseas and locally, according to a report yesterday by the
Urban Justice Center.

The report, based on an in-depth survey, in five languages, of 100 street
vendors in 2004 and 2005, comes from an advocacy group that is calling for
reductions in the fines imposed on the vendors. The breadth of the study also
provides intriguing details into a subculture that helps to feed and even clothe
New Yorkers.

Those surveyed reported a median net income of $7,500 a year, placing them in
the bottom tenth of wage earners, although many may have deliberately
underreported their earnings. The vendors surveyed said they paid an average of
$433 in fines each year. The typical vendor is a married immigrant man who is
the sole provider for his family and has no health insurance, the study found.

The vast majority, 83 percent, were immigrants. By comparison, 93 percent of New
York City pushcart vendors were found to be immigrants in a seminal 1925 study
by the United States Department of Agriculture.

The vendors occupy ethnic niches. In Lower Manhattan, fruit and vegetable
sellers were either Bangladeshi (44 percent) or Chinese (56 percent). Coffee
sellers were overwhelmingly from Afghanistan (80 percent), while most
native-born vendors sold clothing, arts and crafts. Only 20 percent of the
vendors reported English as their first language; forty percent said they were
uncomfortable speaking it.

Of those surveyed, 46 percent sold food, 28 percent sold books, magazines or art
and 26 percent sold merchandise. In the 1925 federal study, food accounted for
72 percent of street sales.

The authors of the report, Sean J. Basinski and Sara Sluszka, had a grim
conclusion.

''The legendary success stories of the past are nearly unthinkable today,'' they
wrote, likening the vendors to the Jewish and Italian pushcart operators who
thronged the Lower East Side a century ago. ''Vendors are faced with so much
regulation and harassment that they can barely subsist. Rather than being
supported, they are targeted as 'quality of life' criminals and hindered at
every turn.''

At a news conference in the Bronx, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that the
fines were longstanding elements of city law and that the city would not let up
in enforcing its regulations.

''The only ways you get people to obey the law is to fine them,'' he said. ''So
I guess first and foremost I'd say, 'Don't break the law and then you won't have
that problem.' ''

The vendors in the survey reported getting an average of 6.7 tickets a year. A
thicket of city departments -- health and mental hygiene, consumer affairs,
sanitation, environmental protection, finance, parks and recreation and police
-- have enforcement powers over the vendors.

The violations included being too close to the curb (22 percent); working on a
restricted street (16 percent); being too close to a storefront (15 percent);
and health violations (10 percent).

The city's Environmental Control Board, an administrative agency, rules on most
of the summonses issued to vendors. Because of language barriers, nearly 60
percent of the vendors surveyed said they did not feel comfortable before the
board, and 41 percent said they did not even appear to defend themselves.

Penalties range from $25 for the first violation to $250 for fourth and
subsequent violations. In February, after two court challenges, the board raised
the maximum penalty for a non-health-related offense to $1,000 per violation. A
bill before the City Council would rescind the increase.

But Mr. Bloomberg said stiff fines were needed. ''The fines have to be
meaningful or people just mark them down as a cost of doing business,'' he said.

Asked why they chose their line of work, the largest proportion of the vendors,
38 percent, said they simply could not find another job. Another 27 percent said
they loved the freedom. Ten percent said they enjoyed the work, 7 percent said
they had a disability that kept them from holding other jobs, and 7 percent said
vending provided good money.

In addition to lowering the fines, the report urged easing caps on vending
licenses and permits; reopening streets and removing obstacles on sidewalks;
overhauling the web of regulations and making it easier for vendors to retrieve
seized property; and providing more translators in proceedings involving the
vendors.

Mitchell Duneier, a Princeton sociologist and author of ''Sidewalk,'' a 1999
study of book and magazine vendors in Greenwich Village, called the report a
''systematic and reliable study'' of Lower Manhattan vendors.

''While the findings cannot necessarily be generalized to other parts of the
city, the recommendations seem sound and constructive,'' Mr. Duneier said. ''The
regulation of street vendors in New York has become increasingly arbitrary. The
report is correct -- and it applies throughout the city -- that street vendors
are having larger and larger fines imposed on them for smaller and smaller
violations.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              414 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 7, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Recruiter Speaking Arabic, Saying 'Go Army' Is a Hard Job

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2944 words

DATELINE: EL CAJON, Calif.


Sgt. Cameron Murad wanders the strip malls and parking lots of this Iraqi
immigrant enclave in the arid foothills beyond San Diego. Wherever he goes, a
hush seems to follow.

He stands by the entrance of a Middle Eastern grocery in khakis and a baseball
cap, trying to blend in. He smiles gently. He offers the occasional Arabic
greeting.

Quietly, he searches the aisles for a version of himself: an Iraqi expatriate
with greater ambition than prospects, a Muslim immigrant willing to fight an
American war.

There are countless hard jobs for American soldiers supporting the occupation of
Iraq. Few seem more impossible than the one assigned to Sergeant Murad. As the
conflict grows increasingly violent and unpopular, the sergeant must persuade
native Arabic speakers to enlist and serve with front-line troops.

''I feel like a nomad in the middle of the desert, looking for green pastures,''
said Sergeant Murad, 34, who is from the Kurdish region of Iraq.

Linguists have emerged as critical figures in the occupation. They interpret for
commanders in meetings with mayors and sheiks. They translate during the
interrogation of Iraqi prisoners. They shadow troops on risky missions.

In the pressing search for Arabic speakers, the military has turned to Middle
Eastern immigrants in the United States. Sergeant Murad is a rising star in this
effort. He has recruited 10 men to the program in little more than a year, a
record unrivaled in the Army National Guard.

Still, he is an unlikely foot soldier in the campaign. His own evolution -- from
a teenage immigrant who landed in North Dakota after the first gulf war to a
spit-and-polish sergeant -- has been marked with private suffering.

In boot camp, he was called a ''raghead.'' Comrades have questioned his
patriotism. Last year a staff sergeant greeted him by calling out, ''Here comes
the Taliban!''

He remembers a day in 2002 when the comedian Drew Carey visited a base in Saudi
Arabia where he was working. During a skit, Sergeant Murad recalled, Mr. Carey
dropped to the ground to mimic the Muslim prayer. As the troops roared with
laughter, Sergeant Murad walked out.

''I thought about my mom when she prays, how humble she is,'' he said.

Yet, day after day, Sergeant Murad sets out to sell other immigrants on the life
he has lived. He believes that Muslims need the military more than ever, he
said: At a time when many feel alienated, it offers them a path to assimilation,
a way to become undeniably American.

It has proved, for him and others, the ultimate rite of passage.

''It's almost like Superman wearing his cape,'' said Gunnery Sgt. Jamal Baadani,
42, an Egyptian immigrant with the United States Marine Corps. ''I've got my
uniform on, and you can't take that away from me because I've earned it.''

Sergeant Murad has earned it, but with a price. He has changed his name. He has
drifted from Islam. He often finds himself at odds with the immigrants he is
trying to enlist.

To many of them, he is a mystery. He sees himself as a man of unavoidable
contradictions: an American patriot and a loyal Kurd; a champion of the military
to outsiders, a survivor within its ranks.

Feeling Like an Outcast

  The sergeant is six feet tall, but often stands shrunken, his hands politely
clasped. He has a long, distinguished nose and wears glasses that darken in the
sun but never fully fade, lending him a distant aura.

He plies the streets of El Cajon in a rumbling, black Toyota Tacoma pickup. In
the back, he carries stacks of fliers advertising what the Army calls the
''09-Lima'' program.

Through the program, speakers of Arabic, Farsi, Dari, Pashto and Kurdish are
sent to boot camp like other soldiers. They later receive specialized training
as linguists, and a majority are deployed to Iraq.

Of the thousands of interpreters working for the military in Iraq, most are
civilians under contract, some of whom earn as much as $170,000 a year. But
military commanders prefer uniformed linguists because they cannot refuse combat
missions and are subjected to more thorough security checks.

They are offered a fraction of what many civilian linguists earn, with salaries
starting at roughly $28,000, including allowances. The program's perks, such as
expedited citizenship, a starting bonus and medical coverage, are a major draw,
military officials said.

Since the Army created the program in 2003, more than 800 people have signed up.
But nearly 40 percent of them have either dropped out or failed language tests
or boot camp. Enlistment in the program has improved with the help of civilian
Arabic speakers contracted by the Army to recruit.

In California, the Army National Guard is trying the same approach, but with
troops. Capt. Hatem Abdine assembled a team of soldiers of mostly Middle Eastern
descent to help recruit full time, and brought Sergeant Murad on board last
year.

In April, the sergeant arrived in El Cajon. Before his first week was up, he
felt like an outcast.

Stacks of fliers and business cards that he had left in grocery stores had
vanished. Cashiers who welcomed him on his first visits were suddenly too busy
to talk. One manager fled the store. The owner of another shop turned his back
and flipped kebobs over a high-licking flame.

''They're so agitated when I approach them,'' Sergeant Murad said. ''Is it
because I'm ugly? I don't think I'm that ugly.''

Nestled in a parched valley, El Cajon drew its first Iraqi settlers half a
century ago because of the resemblance it bore to their homeland. The population
boomed in the 1990's when thousands of refugees -- primarily Kurds and Shiites
-- joined what had long been the domain of whites and Hispanics.

Sergeant Murad makes his rounds with a truck full of Army promotional items,
including a box of T-shirts that state, in Arabic, ''If you can read this'' --
and then in English -- ''the National Guard needs you.'' He cannot bring himself
to wear one.

''To put on that shirt and keep a face free of blush -- it's just an impossible
thing for me to do,'' he said

He favors a more subdued approach. He strolls into restaurants and barber shops,
as though he were just passing through. He offers a smooth, ''Assalamu
alaikum,'' or peace be upon you.

A conversation begins. Soon, Sergeant Murad is reminiscing about his hometown,
Kirkuk. Then, almost as an afterthought, he mentions his job. ''Call if you know
anyone,'' he says, offering a card.

But the calls rarely come. When they do, recruitment is hard won. In the fall of
2005, Sergeant Murad signed up his first two recruits. Over the next 12 months,
he found about 20 other men. Half of them changed their minds.

Most often, recruits do not follow through because of objections from a parent
or spouse. Others learn of more lucrative opportunities. Store windows in El
Cajon are plastered with fliers advertising the six-figure salaries offered to
civilian interpreters.

Some of the sergeant's candidates are overcome by fear. A 33-year-old Egyptian
man from Hemet, Calif., withdrew from the program in June after watching news
from the region on Arabic television channels.

''I know what's happening over there,'' said the man, who would not give his
name. ''My kids need me more than the money.''

From late 2002 to May 2006, 172 civilian contract linguists were killed in
Afghanistan and Iraq, representing 2.6 percent of the roughly 6,500 linguists
who worked for United States coalition forces, a Department of Defense official
said.

None of the 152 interpreters who have served in Iraq for the 09-Lima program
have been killed. But that fact carries little weight in El Cajon, where
memories of violence linger.

''They came here to live in peace and now you're asking them to go to war,''
said the owner of a bakery on Main Street who had fought against Iran with
Saddam Hussein's army. ''We are full up of the war.''

In the pursuit of trust, it does not help that Sergeant Murad is Kurdish. The
Kurds, like the Shiites, are often seen to have an interest in promoting the
American occupation of Iraq because of the repression they suffered under Mr.
Hussein.

The sergeant, who refers to the occupation as ''the liberation,'' does not hide
his impassioned support of the war, or the fact that he is Kurdish.

Sometimes, this backfires. When he told an Iraqi woman at a Laundromat that he
was Kurdish, she snapped, ''Saddam was a wonderful president.''

One afternoon last April, Sergeant Murad dropped by the Main Street bakery,
bought a box of chocolates and left another stack of pamphlets behind. He was
sure they would be tossed, but seemed not to care. He was feeling giddy.

For the first time in weeks, he had a candidate.

The Sting of 9/11

  Sergeant Murad's path to the United States military began 15 years ago, on a
lush meadow in Kurdistan.

American helicopters hovered overhead, dropping packets of dehydrated food to
thousands of refugees, including Sergeant Murad, his three brothers and their
parents.

The next day, they reached a refugee camp run by the United States military in
Zakho. There, a group of marines was standing guard, hefty, tattooed and
smiling. Sergeant Murad, then 18 and rail-thin, thought the men looked like
warriors.

Soon after, in September 1991, the family arrived in Minot, N.D., as political
refugees. A year later, Sergeant Murad got his green card and enlisted in the
Army.

''If a person like me isn't obligated to serve this country, who is?'' he said.
''I had to make a decision that this is my country, that this side is my side.''

He entered the military as Kamaran Taha Muhammad. When he got to boot camp at
Fort Jackson, S.C., he spoke choppy English.

He was, and remains, a shy man. ''If a fly looks at me, I turn red,'' Sergeant
Murad said.

But the first time a fellow soldier insulted him, he threw a punch. He fought
often enough that he was relegated to kitchen patrol.

In time, Sergeant Murad made friends. When he graduated as a light-wheel
mechanic, his fellow soldiers cheered.

The first few years of his military life went smoothly. He was stationed at a
base in Germany. After his tour of duty ended, he found work as the head
civilian linguist at an Air Force base in Riyadh.

But on Sept. 11, 2001, as Sergeant Murad watched the attacks on television in
Riyadh, he felt a searing angst. The next day, he walked into the dining hall
holding a tray, and stopped at a table of officers he knew.

He told them he was sorry. No one responded.

''He didn't know where he fit in,'' said Fernando Muzquiz, 42, now a retired
master sergeant with the Air Force.

Sergeant Murad experienced a shift after Sept. 11, both in his relationship to
Islam and to America. It was as if a fault line crept through him.

As a Muslim, he felt ashamed.

''I was crushed theologically,'' he said. He pored through the Koran, looking
for proof that it condemned terrorism. But from the loud speakers of mosques in
Riyadh, he heard sheiks praying for the mujahedeen.

From Americans, he felt the sting of suspicion.

On trips home to Minnesota, where his parents had moved, Sergeant Murad noticed
the new attention he got at airports. In Atlanta, a security officer saw his
last name, which was still Muhammad, and called out, ''We got one.''

Sergeant Murad wanted to prove his loyalty. He got his chance when the United
States invaded Iraq.

By then, he was working in Bahrain as a civilian linguist with the Naval
Criminal Investigative Service. (He had lost his job in Riyadh after taking an
unauthorized trip off base, which he attributed to a lapse of judgment.)

In Bahrain, he was elated to learn that he would be sent to southern Iraq on a
top-secret mission with the Navy Seals. But several days into the voyage, he
heard a sailor on his ship whisper, ''Cam is one of them.''

Sergeant Murad stopped working for the Navy in March, with his mission in Iraq
successfully completed.

That month, he changed his name.

''In a way, it was my reaction to say, 'No, I am not the same as this criminal,
this coward,' '' said Sergeant Murad, referring to Osama bin Laden. ''I am an
American, I am Cam, I am a naturalized citizen.''

Kamaran became Cameron. Muhammad was dropped for another, less conspicuous
family name, Murad.

The middle name he chose was perhaps most surprising: Fargo.

''I always wanted a connection to North Dakota,'' he said.

Even with a new name, Sergeant Murad felt ill at ease back in the United States.
He has stopped going to mosques. He no longer considers himself a practicing
Muslim. He has few Middle Eastern friends.

''If somebody's name is on a list, and that person has my name or contact
number, I will get harassed,'' he said.

The Army, he decided, was the most comfortable place to be. In 2005, he joined
the National Guard full time.

He is careful to tell potential recruits about the military's zero tolerance
policy on discrimination, and urges them to file complaints should harassment
occur.

Still, Sergeant Murad has never filed a complaint of his own. During several
interviews, he was reluctant to talk about his negative experiences, saying that
he did not want to ''whine'' and that all immigrants endure hardship before they
are accepted.

Last year, when an instructor at an Army base referred to Sergeant Murad as
''the Taliban,'' he laughed along.

''I laughed not to cause trouble,'' he said. ''I laughed because I am really
getting tired of this. I laughed because I know it's a hopeless situation. What
do you do? You just have to laugh.''

''It doesn't matter what you think of me,'' he said. ''Like it or not, I'm your
brother in arms.''

Closing the Deal

  The new candidate's name was Khaled. Sergeant Murad jotted down his number,
passed on by the captain. The Iraqi immigrant had called after spotting a
brochure about the program, the captain explained. And there was one more thing:
the man was on the fence.

Sergeant Murad's job is often one of delicate persuasion. He began by talking to
Khaled, who lived near El Cajon, on the phone. (To protect his identity, the
military requested that his last name not be published.)

By the time they agreed to meet, Sergeant Murad felt uneasy. Not only was Khaled
a Sunni; he was from Mr. Hussein's home province.

A stout man with a mustache answered the door. He seemed overweight for the
rigors of boot camp, thought the sergeant, and his age -- 39 -- was just short
of the cutoff.

They stiffly shook hands, and then sat and sipped tea in a tidy, candle-scented
apartment. A framed picture showed Khaled, his wife and three children waving
from Disney World. Since arriving in the United States in 1999, Khaled had
hopped from one low-wage job to another, pumping gas, stocking groceries.

Now, he told Sergeant Murad, he had made up his mind. He needed the educational
loans the military offered.

Still, he was nervous.

''I'm expecting a shock,'' said Khaled. ''I've been hearing good things, bad
things.''

As he does with all recruits, Sergeant Murad warned Khaled that he might be
hazed at boot camp, and distrusted by other soldiers. But over time, the
sergeant promised, he would make friends.

The two men sat talking until the afternoon turned to dusk. The sergeant gave
Khaled tips on how to lose weight, and promised to help prepare him for the
English tests. Before parting, they embraced.

As Sergeant Murad drove off, he smiled and shook his head. ''This is an Arab
from the Sunni Triangle trusting a Kurd with his life,'' he said.

Khaled entered boot camp in July and is now in advanced training.

Often, finding recruits is only the beginning of Sergeant Murad's job. He spends
time with their families after they have joined up, reassuring mothers that
their sons will eat properly, and helping wives fill out insurance forms.

Last April, Sergeant Murad drove to a boxy stucco house to visit the pregnant
wife of a 22-year-old Shiite recruit. The woman was worried about her husband's
safety in Iraq.

''The fact that he's an Iraqi -- it's unfathomable to these nationals that he
would be with the United States military,'' she said in Arabic, perched on a
couch next to her mother-in-law.

''He is Muslim and in the military -- it doesn't look right.''

The older woman frowned.

''If it were up to me, I would make you join the military because they freed you
from Saddam,'' she told her daughter-in-law.

Boot camp had been effective, the mother said. Her son seemed newly disciplined,
more mature. There was only one thing she disliked: his limited vacation.

''Just two weeks!'' she said. ''Even in the army of Saddam Hussein, this wasn't
the case.''

On a sunny afternoon in August, Sergeant Murad was back in his truck, cruising
El Cajon with a fresh stack of business cards.

He was learning to avoid certain shops. He waved mockingly at the kebab store as
his truck rolled by, no longer concerned about who might be watching.

He had come to the conclusion that first impressions counted little.

Plenty of Iraqis had misjudged him. Eventually, though, they grew to like him.

It was the same with soldiers, Sergeant Murad said. He looked back on his time
in boot camp as the ultimate proof that hardship can be overcome, and wary
comrades, won over.

''In the end, when somebody gets to know Cam the soldier, Cam the citizen, they
always take my side,'' he said. ''That's where my triumph is. The hurt goes
away.''

Faith and War

  This is the second article in an occasional series looking at the experiences
of Muslims and the United States military. The final article will deal with one
woman's efforts to enlist and serve.

An audio interview with Cameron Murad is online at nytimes.com/national.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: FAITH AND WAR: A Tough Sell

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cameron Murad holds the hand of his older brother, Luqman, in
Iraq. The family later moved to North Dakota. Luqman died in an accident in
1981.
Sergeant Murad with a brochure he gives prospective recruits.
Top, Sgt. Cameron Murad leaves the Kurdish Human Rights Watch offices, where he
saw fliers offering six-figure salaries for civilian linguists. Above, he asks
two women if they know anyone who wants to be an interpreter. (Photographs by
JIM WILSON/The New York Times)(pg. A12)
Sgt. Cameron Murad, facing camera, with a potential recruit in El Cajon, Calif.
The man wears a T-shirt Sergeant Murad gave him that day
 the Arabic text on it says, ''If you can read this.'' (Photo by JIM WILSON/The
New York Times)(pg. A1)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              415 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Castro Foe With C.I.A. Ties Puts U.S. in an Awkward Spot

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1356 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Oct. 6


Thirty years ago, long before liquids and gels were restricted on airliners, a
tube of Colgate toothpaste may have brought a plane down from the sky.

Cubana Airlines Flight 455 crashed off the coast of Barbados on Oct. 6, 1976,
killing all 73 people aboard. Plastic explosives stuffed into a toothpaste tube
ignited the plane, according to recently declassified police records.

Implicated in the attack, but never convicted, was Luis Posada Carriles, a Cuban
exile who has long sought to topple the government of Fidel Castro.

Today, Mr. Posada, 78, is in a detention center in El Paso, held on an
immigration violation while the government tries to figure out what to do with
him. His case presents a quandary for the Bush administration, at least in part
because Mr. Posada is a former C.I.A. operative and United States Army officer
who directed his wrath at a government that Washington has long opposed.

Despite insistent calls from Cuba and Venezuela for his extradition, the
administration has refused to send him to either country for trial.

Intensifying the problem is that Mr. Posada, who was arrested last year in Miami
after sneaking into the country, may soon go free, as the United States has been
reluctant to press the terrorism charges that could keep him in jail.

That prospect has brought a hail of criticism of the Bush administration for
holding a double standard when it comes to those who commit terrorist acts.

''The fight against terrorist cannot be fought a la carte,'' said Jose
Pertierra, a Washington lawyer who is representing the government of Venezuela
in its effort to extradite Mr. Posada. ''A terrorist is a terrorist.''

The Bush administration has stopped short of prosecuting him as a terrorist,
however, even though the Justice Department called him as much this week. In
papers filed in federal court in El Paso on Thursday, it described him as ''an
unrepentant criminal and admitted mastermind of terrorist plots and attacks on
tourist sites.''

Instead, Mr. Posada faces immigration charges, as the Bush administration tries
its best to deport him somewhere else, where he would walk free.

Few countries seem willing to take him. So far, Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Panama have all turned down American requests to
take Mr. Posada, who denies that he bombed the plane but who is linked to the
case in declassified C.I.A. and F.B.I. files.

''Who would want him?'' asked one lawyer close to the case, who spoke on the
condition that he not be identified because of the delicacy of the litigation.
''Wherever he goes there will be intelligence agents from a variety of nations
following him, not to mention hit squads.''

Two countries do want Mr. Posada: Venezuela, where he is wanted for blowing up
the plane, and Cuba, where he is viewed as an enemy of the state who has
repeatedly tried to assassinate Mr. Castro.

An immigration judge has ruled that Mr. Posada may be subject to torture in
those two countries. But because no other country has stepped forward, and
because he has not been officially deemed a terrorist by the American
government, a federal judge recommended last month -- coincidentally on Sept. 11
-- that Mr. Posada be released.

The Bush administration is now invoking a law that bars the release of an
illegal immigrant who poses adverse foreign policy consequences for the United
States. That tack has placed it in the awkward position of, in effect, having to
call Mr. Posada a terrorist even as it refuses to charge him as one.

Mr. Posada has longstanding links to American intelligence agencies, and his
colorful past helps to explain why this is not a garden variety terrorism case.
One immigration judge involved in the proceedings described them as being ''not
unlike one of Robert Ludlum's espionage thrillers.''

A former sugar chemist and exterminator in Cuba, Mr. Posada has been working in
the shadows to carry out a policy not unlike the one Washington has advocated
over the decades -- the removal of Mr. Castro.

''How can you call someone a terrorist who allegedly committed acts on your
behalf?'' asked Felipe D. J. Millan, Mr. Posada's El Paso-based lawyer. ''This
would be the equivalent of calling Patrick Henry or Paul Revere or Benjamin
Franklin a terrorist.''

Mr. Posada received military training in the United States and worked for the
C.I.A. as far back as the failed Bay of Pigs invasion. He played a role in
supplying the contras in Nicaragua. He has admitted, but subsequently denied,
involvement in a string of bombings of Cuban tourist facilities.

By the time, the Cubana Airlines plane exploded Mr. Posada was no longer in the
employ of the C.I.A. But records show that he may have notified his former
bosses that a bomb was going to be set off on a plane shortly before it
happened.

Venezuela and Cuba staged events on Friday, the 30th anniversary of the airplane
bombing, where Mr. Bush was condemned for his government's failure to turn over
Mr. Posada. A billboard posted outside the United States Interest Section in
Havana features the image of Mr. Bush, Mr. Posada and Hitler.

Some of the anger directed at the Bush administration's handling of the case
originates closer to home. Roseanne Nenninger Persaud, whose 19-year-old
brother, Raymond, was one of the passengers who perished, recently wrote a
letter to Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales urging him to brand Mr. Posada a
terrorist.

''It feels like a double standard,'' Ms. Nenninger, who was born in Guyana but
has since become an American citizen, said in a telephone interview from New
York. ''He should be treated like bin Laden. If this were a plane full of
Americans it would have been a different story.''

A majority of the victims were Cubans, including the entire Olympic fencing
team, which was returning from a competition in Venezuela. Guyanese and North
Koreans made up most of the other passengers.

''Luis Posada Carriles is a terrorist but he's our terrorist,'' said Peter
Kornbluh of the National Security Archive at George Washington University, which
has been unearthing documents on Mr. Posada's case. ''The historical baggage
that he brought with him when he sneaked into the U.S. has created this dilemma
for the Bush administration.''

Getting out of jail has not been a problem for Mr. Posada in the past. In
Venezuela, where he was held in the prison bombing, he had associates bribe a
guard and he walked out dressed as a priest in 1985. In Panama, where he was
implicated in a plot to kill Mr. Castro during a visit there, the departing
president pardoned him in 2004.

He appears headed for release again, this time from a nondescript holding center
ringed by barbed wire near El Paso's airport.

Mr. Posada's cloak-and-dagger past -- his aliases, his fake passports, his life
on the run through Latin America -- is over, insists his Miami-based lawyer,
Eduardo R. Soto.

In fact, even before Mr. Castro fell ill and ceded power to his brother, Mr.
Posada declared his campaign to topple the Cuban leader by force to be over.

''The Cuban government is in a very deteriorated condition, inexorably reaching
its end, and I sincerely believe that nothing would help to go back to the past
with sabotage campaigns,'' Mr. Posada said.

Mr. Posada's case has eerie parallels with the case of Orlando Bosch, an
associate who has also been accused of playing a role in the bombing. The
administration of Mr. Bush's father released Mr. Bosch from prison in 1990, a
step praised by many in Florida's Cuban community. Now 80, he lives outside
Miami.

Mr. Posada is two years younger and in failing health, partly the result of a
1990 assassination attempt against him. His application to become a United
States citizen has been rejected by the government, but Mr. Posada, who is a
naturalized Venezuelan citizen, is pursuing the matter on appeal.

Mr. Soto says Mr. Posada wants to devote whatever time he has left in life to
his family, which lives in South Florida, and to a hobby he picked up years ago
in prison -- painting.

''Mostly nature scenes,'' Mr. Soto said. ''He's seen a lot of those.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luis Posada Carriles was implicated in the 1976 attack. Now
detained in Texas, he may be freed. (Photo by Joshua Allen/Associated Press,
2005)
 A ceremony in Havana on Friday for the 73 people killed when a bomb planted by
anti-Castro militants blew up a Cubana Airlines plane in 1976. (Photo by
Adalberto Roque/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              416 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 9, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Looking Over the Wall

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 585 words


Congress has adjourned to plead for its re-election, having bequeathed to the
nation a giant fence-building project as its official strategy for fixing the
immigration problem. No doubt some voters will be reassured by the idea that
covering 700 miles of the 2,000-mile southwestern border with razor wire and
floodlights will solve this thing once and for all. But many others will
continue to suspect that it is more complicated than that.

With a better start, this election year could have featured a rational debate
about immigration policy that went beyond xenophobia and the fear of disorder
caused by the presence of immigrant day laborers on suburban street corners.
Americans -- particularly those struggling to find decent jobs themselves --
have a reasonable concern about what effect the presence of so many
unplanned-for workers has had on the economy. They deserved to hear that talked
about in a realistic way.

Last month the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that wants to reduce
immigration, released a study that found that a sharp immigration increase in
the last five years corresponded with a steep decline in the employment of young
native-born Americans, particularly black men without high school diplomas. Last
week in The Times, Rachel Swarns reported on the ways the booming population of
Latinos in the Deep South -- particularly Georgia -- had left many black
Americans resentful of the immigrants' comparative success.

But there is compelling evidence that instead of harming the economy, unskilled
immigrants prop it up, filling jobs that better-educated Americans do not want
and giving everyone access to cheaper goods and services. The case made by the
Center for Immigration Studies is rebutted by other studies that have found that
there is no nationwide pattern of job displacement by illegal immigrants, and
that immigration has broadly been a net plus to the nation. In Georgia,
immigrant labor has kept textile mills, farms and service industries humming.

Right now across America, fruit is rotting on the ground because the crackdown
along the border has created a shortage of immigrant workers needed for the
harvest. Nevertheless, it is impossible to ignore stories of poor American
workers who believe that their livelihoods were undermined by immigrants willing
to work for below-subsistence wages, and of honest employers who could not
compete with unscrupulous competitors using undocumented workers.

These serious problems will not be solved at the border with Mexico. Setting
things right means adopting policies that fence-obsessed members of Congress
have not exactly championed, like raising the minimum wage, improving public
education, having a progressive income tax and making sure that workers' rights
are protected.

These are only a few reasonable solutions. A host of others is offered in a new
report by the Migration Policy Institute, in which Lee Hamilton, the former
congressman, and Spencer Abraham, the former senator and energy secretary, argue
that immigration needs to be seen as an integral element of a national economic
policy. It is a resource to be embraced and managed, with a lawful, orderly flow
of workers governed by flexible quotas set by a national commission advising
Congress.

It's a comprehensive approach and then some. It offers a new way of framing a
stalled debate. The wall builders have made their point, and it's a lousy one.
Now it is time for those who want serious immigration reform to look beyond
them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              417 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

22 Chinese Are Held In a Smuggling Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, April 5


Twenty-two Chinese immigrants were in custody Wednesday after they apparently
let themselves out of a 40-foot-long cargo container that had been used to
smuggle them from China, officials said.

The 18 men and 4 women, all believed to be in their 20's and 30's, seemed to be
in good physical condition after about two weeks in the container, said Michael
Milne, a spokesman for the Customs and Border Protection agency.

Security guards at the Port of Seattle spotted the group about 1 a.m.

Mr. Milne said it could take investigators several days to determine whether the
Chinese would be deported, be held as material witnesses or face other
proceedings, like asylum hearings.

The shipping container, which was loaded on the ship in Shanghai, had water
bottles, food, blankets and toilet facilities.

The ship is registered in Liberia and operated by China Shipping Line, the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said.

Officials at Norton Lilly, a Mobile, Ala., company listed as China Shipping
Line's agent in Seattle, did not immediately respond to a message seeking
comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              418 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

People Power

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 586 words


The marchers in white T-shirts poured out of the subway doors and merged into a
stream, flowing like blood cells through the tubular innards of the Washington
Metro, past turnstiles and up escalators and out into the delicate brilliance of
a fine spring day. On the street, they met up with the others -- young parents,
old people, toddlers in strollers, teenagers in jeans and jewelry -- and headed
to the Mall, where they and their American flags dissolved into a shimmering sea
of white, red and blue.

The immigration rallies of recent weeks have drawn an astounding number of
people around the country: Monday's ''national day of action'' was attended by
an estimated 180,000 in Washington, 100,000 each in Phoenix and New York City,
50,000 each in Atlanta and Houston, and tens of thousands more in other cities.

Adding in the immense marches last month in Los Angeles and Chicago, the
immigrants and their allies have carried off an amazing achievement in mass
political action, even though many of them are here illegally and have no right
to vote. Whether the rallies leave you inspired or unnerved, they are impossible
to ignore.

This nation is deeply divided and undecided about illegal immigration. The
ambivalence runs deep. Americans can hardly even agree on whom they are talking
about. Listen to debates from talk radio to the Senate, and you will hear
utterly incompatible descriptions of the same group of people. The nation's 11
million to 12 million illegal immigrants are either an occupying army of
thieves, snatching jobs and subverting our laws, or they are a wholesome
community of strivers, eager to build families and chase the American dream.

Monday's rallies were a decisive victory for the more positive vision. In
Washington, as elsewhere, the mood was as mellow as the crowd, which was
dominated by parents of young children. (You can shout all the fiery slogans you
want, but you will never be threatening with a baby in your arms.) An
86-year-old Salvadoran, Maria Guevara, sat in a folding chair and waved a
plastic American flag as a friend, Ana Santos, held a placard to keep the sun
out of her eyes. Ms. Guevara was as placid as if sitting beside a pond, though
all around her it was noisier than a baseball stadium.

A recurrent complaint against new immigrants -- particularly Latinos, the
overwhelming majority at most rallies -- is that they are slow to assimilate.
But these crowds clearly had internalized at least one pillar of the American
way: that peaceful dissent can spur a government to action.

Though recent immigration developments in Washington had been a discouraging mix
of stalemate and cold political maneuvering, the marchers seemed motivated less
by a sense of grievance than by hope, and the pure joy of seeing others like
themselves rallying for a precious cause. They were venturing boldly from the
shadows and daring the country to change its laws, but were doing so out of a
desire to participate in the system, not to undermine it.

This became especially clear when the thousands on the Mall recited the Pledge
of Allegiance, reading from yellow sheets printed in English and in a crude
phonetic spelling to help Spanish speakers pronounce the unfamiliar words.
Something about the latter version -- with its strange sense of ineloquent
desire -- was enough to provoke tears.

  Ai pledch aliyens to di fleg

Of d Yunaited Esteits of America

An tu di republic for wich it estands

Uan naishion, ander Gad

Indivisibol

Wit liberti an yostis

For oll.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              419 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Strategy Sessions Fueled Immigrant Marches

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Reporting for this article was contributed by
Brenda Goodman in Atlanta, Colin Moynihan in New York, Rachel L. Swarns in
Washington and Katie Zezima in Boston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1205 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 11


Meeting in February at a convention center in Riverside, Calif., some 600 Latino
immigrant advocates from across the country tossed around ideas about how to
defeat what they considered anti-immigrant legislation in Congress.

The advocates cheered denunciations of Representative F. James Sensenbrenner
Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, who sponsored a bill that would make being an
illegal immigrant a felony and would criminalize the providing of aid to people
living in this country illegally.

They also vowed to take their anger to the streets, setting a date of March 25
for what would turn out to be the largest protest in recent weeks, more than
500,000 people in downtown Los Angeles, and promising months of other
demonstrations.

''I said this is the time for us to have an organizing contagion,'' said Armando
Navarro, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California,
Riverside, who helped organize the February session.

The Riverside meeting was one of many that gave birth to a wave of
demonstrations that is still playing out nationwide.

Soon afterward, grass-roots groups and members of the clergy, many heeding a
call to action from leaders of the Roman Catholic Church, reached out for
organizing and political muscle.

They contacted labor groups, including the Service Employees International
Union, whose membership of janitors, security guards and others includes large
numbers of immigrants.

Through e-mail messages, phone calls, word of mouth, and coverage in ethnic and
mainstream news media, the loose network has shared tactics and developed an ad
hoc blueprint repeated from Fresno, Calif., to Omaha to Atlanta: engage
Spanish-language radio DJ's, who reach millions; place leaflets in churches; and
buttonhole members of Latin American soccer leagues.

There are now unified chants like ''Today we march, tomorrow we vote'' added to
chestnuts from the civil rights era and reflecting an urge for a longer-lasting
mark.

Buoyed by a string of major protests in early March, they arranged a conference
call and set the stage for Monday's round, in which hundreds of thousands of
demonstrators marched in more than 100 cities.

Some organizers are now planning a ''day without an immigrant'' on May 1,
International Workers Day. Others are planning rallies and other events.

Leaders said they had developed coalitions that had set aside differences among
immigrant groups for what they regarded as an important galvanizing issue.

The leaders have taken heart in the breadth of the protests and their locations
in places like Birmingham, Ala., and other parts of the South where Latino
political awakening is occurring after more than a decade of surging Hispanic
growth.

''About two weeks ago, we called a meeting in which we included the radio
stations, members of the Catholic Church, the newspapers, the directors of the
soccer leagues,'' said Sigfredo Rubio, 34, a student at Cumberland School of Law
in Birmingham, where a few thousand people protested Monday.

With ''the first meeting of 15 people,'' Mr. Rubio said, ''we had a connection
with a couple of thousand, just through those groups.''

''It just grew,'' he added.

The snowball effect helps to explain why so many people in such an array of
places have taken part.

''There was definitely a turning point on this one where as people saw the
events that took place in Chicago, L.A. and elsewhere, that inspired and
empowered people in way I haven't seen before,'' said Darcy Tromanhauser of the
Nebraska Appleseed Center for Law in the Public Interest, which helped organize
rallies in Omaha and Lincoln that drew several thousand people.

Organizers focused on two events, the March 25 rally and demonstrations on
Monday in downtown Los Angeles, the San Fernando Valley and Santa Ana, a heavily
Latino working-class city 30 miles south of Los Angeles.

The March 25 demonstration was largely the work of an umbrella group of
immigrant rights and community groups calling itself the March 25 Coalition. The
coalition is taking the lead in promoting a nationwide boycott for May 1, asking
immigrants not to work, shop or go to school.

Members of the New American Opportunity Campaign, a group of 60 immigrant rights
organizations based in Washington, and other advocates met in Chicago on March
16 and 17 and held a series of conference calls to decide how to make a larger
statement than the local protests.

Organizers decided to hold a wave of rallies this week while members of Congress
were in their home districts on a recess.

They urged members to include appeals to vote, to wave American flags and to
emphasize the need for changes in immigration law that would lead to
citizenship.

''We are a powerful community,'' said Angelica Salas, executive director of the
Coalition for Humane Immigrants Rights in Los Angeles, an organizer of Monday's
demonstration.

''These are immigrants and their families, many of them U.S. citizens, having a
voice in this process,'' Ms. Salas said.

She said her group and others would not participate in the May 1 boycott out of
concerns that it could jeopardize immigrants' jobs and because they did not
think that children should stay home from school.

Another important organizer in recent Los Angeles demonstrations, the Central
American Resource Center, said it probably would abstain from the boycott.

''Some boycotts have proved successful in the past, but it would be hard to
measure how successful a one day boycott is,'' said Stephanie Kotin, a
spokeswoman for the organization.

Her group and others are focused on broadening the range of participants in the
street protests. In Los Angeles, advocates of Korean immigrant rights took part
in the march on Monday, and organizers enlisted an appearance by Bruce Gordon,
the president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People,
in a fledgling effort to draw more black support.

The Service Employees union played a large role in many of the demonstrations on
Monday, including one in New York, where union members acted after witnessing a
rally last month in Washington.

''I saw people coming from all over Washington, working people coming from all
over the place,'' said Rhadames Rivera, a vice president of Local 1199 of the
Service Employees union in New York, one of the lead organizers of Monday's
demonstration. ''They were so enthusiastic. People were getting out of work
going to the rally and marching. It was very inspiring.''

Mike Garcia, of Local 1877 of the S.E.I.U. in Los Angeles, said that apart from
organizing prowess the unions brought credibility to the demonstrations, making
it safe for politicians and other community leaders to participate with
grass-roots groups they knew little about.

''We make sure these organizations are stable and respected players,'' he said.

Professor Navarro said he was pleased with the results. He echoed the sentiments
of other protest leaders in declaring a movement at hand that has raised
awareness of the immigration issue.

''The idea we were a sleeping giant, sitting under a cactus saying manana, is
gone,'' Professor Navarro said. ''This is a community showing conviction and
power. It is not a passive community.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters demanding changes in immigration laws held candles
after marching last night in Los Angeles. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              420 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 211 words



Dozens Reported Killed in Afghan Raid on Taliban
Afghan security forces backed by coalition helicopters attacked a suspected
Taliban hideout in southern Afghanistan, setting off an intense gun battle in
which dozens of rebels and six policemen were reported killed.   PAGE 12

Poker's Saturation Point


Television executives are pumping out more poker shows, even as there are signs
that the national poker craze may already be past its peak.   SUNDAY BUSINESS

Aching to Remain Active
Baby boomers who grew up exercising regularly are bearing the toll as vulnerable
knees and hips begin to wear out. They are looking for relief in operating rooms
and orthopedists' offices.   SPORTSSUNDAY

Three Voices on Immigration
An illegal immigrant from Colombia, a construction company owner who hires
foreigners and an advocate for the poor lend voice to the complexities of the
immigration issue.   PAGE 23

Author of 'Jean Brodie' Dies
Muriel Spark, whose novels, including ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' put her
in the top rank of British writers of the post World War II years, died at 88.
PAGE 32

Trapped Cats: A Long Story
Stories about trapped cats like Molly, who was stuck in the wall of a Greenwich
Village store for two weeks, have gripped New Yorkers for decades.   PAGE 27

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              421 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Groups Plan Campaign to Bring Legal Changes

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 882 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19


Leaders of the demonstrations that drew hundreds of thousands of immigrants into
the streets last week announced Wednesday that they were planning voter
registration and citizenship drives across the country in an effort to transform
the immigrant community into a powerful, organized political force.

But the leaders of immigrant advocacy groups remain sharply divided over whether
immigrants should demonstrate their economic strength by staying away from their
jobs, schools and local shops on May 1 in what organizers are calling the Great
American Boycott of 2006.

In Washington, the leaders of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, an
alliance of immigrant, labor and business groups, is urging immigrants to ignore
the boycott and to participate in voter registration drives and other activities
after attending school or going to work.

In Los Angeles, the leaders of some immigration advocacy groups are appearing on
Spanish-language radio stations and warning listeners to consider the
consequences of skipping work and keeping their children out of school,
particularly because dozens of immigrants were fired after participating in last
week's rallies. As an alternative, organizers are planning a five-mile march
that people can take part in after work.

Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles issued a statement opposing the boycott,
saying, ''Personally, I believe that we can make May 1 a win-win day here in
Southern California: go to work, go to school and then join thousands of us at a
major rally afterwards.''

Anjelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights
of Los Angeles, said she and others preferred to focus on events that would win
over the American public, suggesting that a national economic boycott might
unnecessarily alienate ordinary people and decision makers.

Ms. Salas and others are proposing a national day of community service, in which
immigrants, some of whom are in the country illegally, would make repairs in
local schools and paint community centers to demonstrate their value to the
community and commitment to the country. The date for that demonstration has not
been set.

''It is critical for us, that we really, as we move forward, take actions that
are embraced by the American public, that touch the hearts and minds of the
American public, that they get to know us, that they understand who we are,''
Ms. Salas said at a news conference here.

The debate over how to harness the emerging immigrant activism comes as
politicians, church leaders and advocacy groups continue to marvel at the large
numbers of immigrants, most of them Hispanic, who have turned out in recent
weeks to demonstrate against a House bill, which was passed in December, that
would criminalize illegal immigrants and those who help them.

Senate legislation that would have legalized most of the roughly 11 million
illegal immigrants believed to be living in the United States collapsed this
month amid partisan bickering over parliamentary procedure. The Senate is
expected to take up immigration again when it returns from its spring recess
next week.

Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, said
immigrants had demonstrated that they were looking for action from Congress and
the White House, not partisan bickering.

Joshua Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights, said that this summer would be ''an immigrant freedom summer,''
with citizenship and voter registration drives in various cities to ensure that
immigrants would vote in Congressional elections this year and in the
presidential election in 2008.

Advocates for immigrants also acknowledged that they differed with groups
promoting an economic boycott, like the March 25th Coalition, the alliance of
immigrant, church and business groups that organized the rally in Los Angeles in
March that drew about 500,000 people.

Oscar Sanchez, who handles public relations for the March 25th Coalition, said
his group was undeterred by the concerns raised by the other advocacy groups.
Mr. Sanchez said he expected the May 1 boycott to be a national success, with
participation in at least 90 cities.

''We don't want to hurt the United States economically,'' Mr. Sanchez said in a
telephone interview from Los Angeles. ''We want to show them the buying power of
the immigrant consumer. Right now, the campaign is planning a boycott and a
voter registration drive on the same day, May 1. We are flexing our economic
power to gain political power.''

Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland, an advocacy group,
countered that the timing was not right for a boycott. Mr. Torres, who is a
leading proponent of the community service day, said he and others wanted to see
first how the Senate responded to the calls for legalization before taking such
a step.

Immigration Crackdown

  WASHINGTON, April 19 (AP) -- Immigration agents arrested seven executives and
hundreds of employees of a manufacturer of crates and pallets on Wednesday as
part of a crackdown on employers of illegal immigrants.

The authorities raided offices and plants of the company, IFCO Systems, in at
least nine states, the culmination of a yearlong criminal investigation, law
enforcement officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              422 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Latinos in the Midwest, a Time to Be Heard

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words

DATELINE: LIBERAL, Kan., April 21


The pro-immigration rally here two weeks ago was not the largest or most
sophisticated, considering the tens of thousands of people who marched in places
like Washington, Los Angeles and New York.

It came together in just a few days, spread by word of mouth and a hastily
written flier posted in stores. People picnicked or milled about as children
played and vendors sold ice cream. They chanted ''Si, se puede'' -- yes, we can
-- but did not venture many more slogans than that.

But the turnout of 800 or so in this windswept prairie town reflects the
activism around the immigration debate that has rippled to rural areas in the
Midwest, where the Latino population has soared in recent years but opposition
to illegal immigration remains deeply ingrained.

''We've never been united like that, all of us Latinos,'' said Jose Torres, a
meatpacking plant worker who attended the rally. ''We are here and not leaving,
and we need to let people know that.''

The main elements of the national debate are here, just somewhat hidden beneath
the surface: the mutually dependent relationship of employers and immigrant
workers, the financial benefits and setbacks an influx of immigrants brings to a
community, and the awkward question of who is legal and how much it should
matter.

There have long been Latinos in southwestern Kansas, a place steeped in
Americana. One of the towns, Dodge City, still promotes the legend of Wyatt
Earp. Liberal celebrates an annual pancake festival and stakes a tourist-minded
claim as the hometown of Dorothy from the ''Wizard of Oz'' -- complete with a
yellow brick road.

Mexican laborers first arrived more than a century ago to help build railroads,
and some of their descendants remain.

The marches here and in nearby towns, however, underscored the other, parallel
world of newly arrived Mexican laborers living impoverished in trailer parks and
working in the unglamorous meatpacking industry.

With the growth of the meatpacking industry here in the early 1980's came droves
of new immigrants. At $10 an hour, the messy, taxing and sometimes dangerous
assembly-line work of slaughtering cows and processing them into steaks and
hamburger was a bonanza compared with jobs in Mexico, El Salvador and elsewhere
in Latin America.

By 2000, the Latino share of the population of this town of 20,000 had
quadrupled to 43 percent from 10 percent in 1980, reflecting a pattern
throughout southwest Kansas.

''They came to fill important jobs in the community and work, and people in our
world respect hard workers,'' said Donald D. Stull, an anthropologist at the
University of Kansas who has studied the demographic changes across the region.

Liberal got its name, the story goes, from the generosity of its founder, S. S.
Rogers, who would give out water to settlers passing through. That welcoming
spirit pervaded many prairie towns and continues to some extent today.

Still, many people here who are not Hispanic take offense at the waving of
foreign flags -- during the rally here a few carloads of young white men drove
past pointedly brandishing American flags -- and chafe at hearing so much
Spanish spoken on the streets.

In a Survey USA poll earlier this month for The Wichita Eagle and KWCH-TV,
nearly three-quarters of 500 adults statewide answered ''yes'' when asked if the
United States should find and deport all illegal immigrants.

Even so, there has been a respect here, sometimes grudging, that the majority of
the immigrants have come to work and have helped keep Liberal and other towns
hanging on, in contrast to dying farm towns. But complaints about the strain on
services and crowded schools are growing, too.

''We don't look at it as growth and progress always because we are getting the
growth and progress, but from the lower incomes that are a drain on government
services,'' said Sally Cauble, a longtime resident who is running for the state
school board.

The imprint of Latinos in Liberal goes well beyond the schools. Bakeries,
Mexican food stands, Spanish-language radio and other businesses catering to
them have sprouted up over the years. On Pancake Boulevard, a main drag dotted
with fast food restaurants and cheap motels, a restaurant, El Amigo Chavez, rubs
shoulder with the KFC, and the counter girl at McDonald's takes orders in
Spanish while a group of older white men hold court at a table.

''They work hard and don't cause too much trouble, so I guess it's been good for
these parts,'' said one of the men in the McDonald's, Fred Sanders, a former
Liberal resident on a visit.

It is common belief, if difficult to prove, that many of the new arrivals are
illegal, but this town generally has taken a ''don't ask, don't tell'' approach.
For many years, it was better not to know -- the work that needed to get done
was getting done.

Nonetheless, the nationwide crackdown by the Department of Homeland Security on
illegal immigrants and those who employ them has caused a stir here, as many
believe the meatpacking plants, despite assurances from executives that identity
documents are checked, employ some workers with fake work permits and Social
Security cards.

The state's political leadership has been split on how to deal with the problems
of illegal immigration. Last month, state legislators beat back a proposal to
repeal college tuition breaks for the children of illegal immigrants, a proposal
the governor, Kathleen Sebelius, a Democrat, had criticized.

Senator Sam Brownback, a Republican, broke with fellow conservatives to favor a
provision in a Senate bill that would allow a guest worker program that
ultimately would steer illegal immigrants to citizenship. That put him in the
company of major agriculture and industry leaders here.

The state's other senator, Pat Roberts, also a Republican, has emphasized a
crackdown on the border to keep illegal immigrants out. The congressman from
this region, Representative Jerry Moran, a Republican, voted for a House bill in
December that, apart from strengthening border security, would make it a felony
to be an illegal immigrant or aid one.

Against the uncertain political backdrop, some Latinos see opportunity. In
recent months a generation of longtime workers and their relatives, some of whom
have moved on to better-paying work, opened businesses and raised families here,
have seized on the immigration debate in an effort to increase Latino political
power.

''I went to a meeting in Topeka and they said, 'What, there are Hispanics in
southwest Kansas?' '' said Concha Aragon, a custodial worker in Ulysses who is
organizing a chapter of an advocacy group, Hispanos Unidos, in the area. ''I
said, 'Yes, and we're taking action.' ''

The younger generation, especially the children of the immigrants, who make up
nearly two-thirds of the public school enrollment now, are also beginning to
assert themselves.

Kasmine Hidalgo, 25, whose father came here years ago to work in a meatpacking
plant, National Beef, recalled an awkward moment when a local radio reporter
approached her during the demonstration here on April 10.

''He asked me, well, 'Are you Mexican or American?' '' Ms. Hidalgo said. ''I
said: 'I am Mexican-American. I was born here.' People do not realize a lot of
us are from here. We do need more political leaders, and maybe this is a step.''

As in a lot of the country, much of the focus these days is on May 1, when
immigrant groups in many states are threatening a work stoppage. Organizers here
are discussing the possibility of joining the boycott, but some church leaders
argue against it and some workers fret over antagonizing their bosses at the
plants. National Beef, which operates plants here and in Dodge City, issued a
letter before the April 10 demonstration sympathizing with the cause of
immigration law reform but discouraging employees from skipping work.

Fresh from her shift at the plant, Adela Torres sat at the kitchen table of her
Liberal home in a neighborhood of small houses and mobile homes.

''We have to keep this going, to claim our rights,'' Ms. Torres said. ''We're
just deciding how.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cultures meet in Liberal, Kan., as Apolinar Oropeza sells ice
cream to Ethan Davis, 5. Latinos make up 43 percent of the town. (Photo by David
Bowser for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 The growth of the meatpacking industry in Liberal, Kan., in the early 1980's
brought droves of immigrants. By 2000, the Latino share of the population had
quadrupled, and its influence grew more visible. (Photographs by David Bowser
for The New York Times)(pg. A22)Map of Kansas highlighting Liberal: Latinos
living in Liberal, Kan., have enjoyed an uneasy peace. (pg. A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              423 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Student's Prize Is a Trip Into Immigration Limbo

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words


A small, troubled high school in East Harlem seemed an unlikely place to find
students for a nationwide robot-building contest, but when a neighborhood
after-school program started a team last winter, 19 students signed up. One was
Amadou Ly, a senior who had been fending for himself since he was 14.

The project had only one computer and no real work space. Engineering advice
came from an elevator mechanic and a machinist's son without a college degree.
But in an upset that astonished its sponsors, the rookie team from East Harlem
won the regional competition last month, beating rivals from elite schools like
Stuyvesant in Manhattan and the Bronx High School of Science for a chance to
compete in the national robotics finals in Atlanta that begins tomorrow.

Yet for Amadou, who helps operate the robot the team built, success has come at
a price. As the group prepared for the flight to Atlanta today, he was forced to
reveal his secret: He is an illegal immigrant from Senegal, with no ID to allow
him to board a plane. Left here long ago by his mother, he has no way to attend
the college that has accepted him, and only a slim chance to win his two-year
court battle against deportation.

In the end, his fate could hinge on immigration legislation now being debated in
Congress. Several Senate bills include a pathway for successful high school
graduates to earn legal status. But a measure passed by the House of
Representatives would make his presence in the United States a felony, and both
House and Senate bills would curtail the judicial review that allows exceptions
to deportation.

Meanwhile, the team's sponsors scrambled to put him on a train yesterday
afternoon for a separate 18-hour journey to join his teammates from Central Park
East High School at the Georgia Dome. There, more than 8,500 high school
students will participate in the competition, called FIRST (For Inspiration and
Recognition of Science and Technology) by its sponsor, a nonprofit organization
that aims to make applied sciences as exciting to children as sports.

''I didn't want other people to know,'' said Amadou, 18, referring to his
illegal status. ''They're all U.S. citizens but me.''

Most team members learned of his problem only yesterday at a meeting with
Kristian Breton, 27, the staff member at the East Harlem Tutorial program who
started the team, inspired by his own experience in the competition when he was
a high school student in rural Mountain Home, Ark.

Alan Hodge, 18, echoed the general dismay. ''We can't really celebrate all the
way because it's not going to feel whole as a team without Amadou,'' he said.

Amadou's teammates have struggled with obstacles of their own. When Mr. Breton
called a meeting of parents to collect permission slips last week, only five
showed up. One boy's mother had a terminal illness, Mr. Breton learned. Another
mother lived in the Dominican Republic, leaving an older sibling to manage the
household. One of the six girls on the team said her divorced parents disagreed
about letting her go, and her mother, who was willing to approve the trip,
lacked the $4 subway fare to get to the meeting.

But Amadou's case stands out. As he tells it, with corroboration from
immigration records and other documents, he was 13 and spoke no English when his
mother brought him to New York from Dakar on Sept. 10, 2001. He was 14 when she
went back, leaving him behind in the hope that he could continue his American
education.

By then, he had finished ninth grade at Norman Thomas High School in a program
for students learning English as a second language. But his mother left
instruction for him to take a Greyhound bus to Indianapolis, where a Senegalese
woman friend had agreed to take him in and send him to North Central High School
there.

''It was the same thing when I was in Africa,'' he said, describing a childhood
spent shuttling between his grandmother and the household of his father, a
retired police officer with 12 children and three wives.

The woman in Indiana, who had four children of her own, changed her mind about
keeping him after his sophomore year, and he returned by bus to New York in the
summer of 2004. ''I had to find a way to help myself for food and clothes, and
to buy some of my school supplies,'' he said, recalling days handing out fliers
for a clothing store on a Manhattan street corner. ''I ended up living with
another friend -- I'm under age and I can't live alone.''

Taking shelter with a taxi driver, a friend of the family who could sign his
report cards, Amadou enrolled in 11th grade at Central Park East. Under
longstanding Supreme Court decisions, children have a right to a public
education regardless of their immigration status, and in New York, as in many
other cities, a ''don't ask, don't tell'' approach to legal status has prevailed
for years.

But after the 9/11 attacks, practices around the country changed. On a rainy
highway in Pennsylvania on Nov. 7, 2004, Amadou met a very different attitude
when he had the bad luck to be a passenger in a car rear-ended by a truck. The
state trooper who responded questioned his passport and school ID, and summoned
federal immigration officers, who began deportation proceedings.

There is no right to a court-appointed lawyer in immigration court, and though
Amadou's friends hired one for him at first, records show that the lawyer soon
withdrew. ''We really couldn't afford to pay,'' Amadou explained.

By the time the case was finally sent to a special juvenile docket in federal
court after several adjournments, Amadou had already turned 18, closing off some
legal options that can lead to a green card for juveniles, said Amy Meselson, a
Legal Aid lawyer who took on the case last week.

At this point, she said, his best chance is probably a long shot: a measure
included in an amendment to many Senate immigration bills, known as the Dream
Act, which offers a path to citizenship to young people of good character who
have lived in the United States for five years, been accepted to college, or
earned a high school diploma or the equivalent.

Opponents say the measure will encourage illegal immigrants, and subsidize their
education at the expense of American children and their taxpaying parents.

But mentors for Amadou's team, which calls itself ''East Harlem Tech,'' seem to
have no ear for such arguments.

''He's been a hard-working and diligent student with mathematical ability and a
scientific mind,'' said Rhonda Creed-Harry, a math teacher at Central Park East.
But though he has been accepted at the New York City College of Technology in
Brooklyn, he said he could not attend because he does not qualify for financial
aid.

Ramon Padilla, a team mentor who stopped a year short of a college degree
himself and now works in the audio-visual department at Columbia University,
called the news that Amadou faced deportation ''overwhelming.''

''I'm telling you, he's a great kid, a very talented kid,'' he said, adding that
Amadou played an important role in building the robot, with help from Frank
Sierra, a buddy of Mr. Padilla who repairs elevators. Starting from a standard
set of parts, each team had six weeks to design a robot that could move down a
center line and throw balls into a goal. In the last round of the competition,
Amadou helped his team form a winning alliance with teams from Morris High
School in the Bronx and Staten Island Tech, which both advanced to the finals as
well.

Mr. Breton, who made last-minute trips to the Bronx to gather parental
permissions, said he was determined not to leave Amadou behind. ''I started with
19 people, and I want to take 19 people to Atlanta,'' he told the student. ''I
want to make sure that everybody has the full opportunity, because I feel you've
earned it.''

Amadou returned the compliment. ''Because of him, it happened,'' he said.

Yet on the train to Atlanta, accompanied by another staff member, Amadou was
still worried. Bloomberg L.P., which is underwriting the full cost of the team's
trip to Atlanta, plans to display its robot at the company's headquarters in New
York and invite the team up to celebrate their achievement. He said he was
afraid that for lack of the right ID he might be turned away from the building.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kristian Breton met with his team of robot builders in East
Harlem yesterday before they were to leave for a national competition in
Atlanta. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 Amadou Ly left New York by train yesterday for a robotics contest in Atlanta.
He had no ID to get on a plane. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg.
A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              424 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Calls for Boycott by Immigrants, Employers Gird for Unknown

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Gretchen Ruethling contributed reporting from Chicago
for this article, and Fernanda Santos from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1047 words


Leading up to a new wave of immigration demonstrations around the country set
for today, employers met with workers, posted letters on bulletin boards and in
employee lunchrooms, and braced for the day ahead.

Some urged their employees to come to work today despite calls for a broad
economic boycott as a show of immigrants' strength. Others announced that they
would let workers out early to participate in events, or, unsure of just what
today would bring, would close for the day.

In Las Vegas, operators of some of that city's biggest casinos urged their
employees to come to work and to channel their concerns about immigration into
carefully planned and approved alternatives -- signing petitions available at
work or attending a rally after the first work shift.

In the country's midsection, the owners of Cargill Meat Solutions told some
15,000 workers that beef and pork plants in Iowa, Nebraska, Illinois and other
states would close for the day, and, in the case of five of the seven Cargill
facilities, open for business next Saturday instead.

The wide range of plans set out by companies in recent days reflected a broader
uncertainty about what would actually happen today in scores of cities and
towns.

Would large numbers of immigrants stay away from their jobs, from schools and
from spending money for what some organizers are calling the Great American
Boycott of 2006? Or would more simply attend demonstrations, prayer services and
voter registration drives on International Workers Day, as other leaders, who do
not support a boycott, have urged?

''A walkout really isn't the constructive way -- it's the opposite of what
should be happening,'' said Alberto Lopez, a spokesman for Harrah's
Entertainment, the casino company, where prominent banners and petitions calling
for immigration reform (to be delivered, ultimately, to members of Congress)
have been placed in employee dining halls. But, in the end, no one was certain
what workers would choose to do.

Across the country, immigration advocates themselves have been divided over the
notion of a sweeping boycott as a method of protest.

Supporters say it would reveal the size of the country's dependence on immigrant
workers and remind Congress of the power behind their voices at a crucial time
when leaders in Washington are arguing over whether to allow millions of illegal
immigrants to become legal. Opponents, though, say a walkout might erode support
for the central goals, and could cause immigrants to be disciplined at their
jobs and at school.

Predictions for the day varied vastly from city to city.

In Los Angeles, the police prepared for hundreds of thousands of people to
attend demonstrations, while smaller rallies were expected in other West Coast
cities. Some advocates in Los Angeles have pressed for a full boycott, while
other leaders there, including Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, the archbishop of Los
Angeles, have urged a milder approach.

Jesse Diaz, a rally organizer in Los Angeles, has called on people to avoid
buying or selling products, and to skip work or school. He dismisses any
division over the question as ''wishy-washy.''

In an earlier march, Mr. Diaz said, the crowd went ''crazy'' when he announced
plans for the boycott. ''You could just tell these folks were ready to
boycott,'' he said.

But in Chicago, where police predicted that the crowd for a rally and march
could number into the hundreds of thousands, many demonstration organizers said
they were not calling for a boycott.

''We are trying to add on allies and make sure there's unity, not division,''
said Juan Salgado, president of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights, one of the 250 or so groups involved in organizing.

Instead, leaders in Chicago said their events would focus broadly on immigration
reform, labor rights and civil rights, and would include groups -- people of
Polish, Chinese and Irish descent -- beyond the Latino base that has
overwhelmingly attended earlier demonstrations.

Over the weekend, too, legal permanent residents were invited to a workshop at a
Chicago church where they were advised on the paperwork, English proficiency
exams, interviews and other steps needed for citizenship.

In New York City, immigrant rights groups and others were calling on workers and
employers to join in ''human chains'' in locations in all five boroughs at 12:16
p.m. The time, they said, reflects the date -- Dec. 16 -- that the House of
Representatives passed a measure that would make it a felony for an immigrant to
stay illegally in the United States. The measure galvanized anger among
immigrants' advocates and spurred the first demonstrations. A late afternoon
rally in Union Square in Manhattan is also scheduled.

The human chain will hold for 15 or 20 minutes, some organizers said, then
disband so that the workday may resume.

In Denver, Ricardo Martinez, an organizer of a planned march and rally there and
a co-director of a group called Padres Unidos, said he and others were
encouraging a boycott but were not telling students to leave school. He said
that at least 200 businesses, including jewelry stores, grocery stores,
landscaping businesses and a meatpacking plant, agreed to close for the day.

Some employers who announced in advance that their companies would close today
said this weekend that they had already begun to see unexpected fallout.

Before an earlier set of demonstrations, Cargill Meat Solutions officials had
urged its workers to write letters to Congress rather than missing work. Some
workers went to the demonstrations anyway, said Mark Klein, a spokesman, and the
company decided to close this time.

''It made it clear that there's a lot of emotion and passion about these
issues,'' he said. ''We're trying to tell employees that we're in this together.
We thought that this gesture would reinforce that.''

Since the announcement, Cargill has received a flurry of e-mail messages and
phone calls from people outside the company accusing it of employing illegal
immigrants.

''In the meat business, we're very aggressive in verifying employment
eligibility,'' Mr. Klein said. ''They are misconstruing this decision as proof
that Cargill makes a practice of hiring illegal workers, and that's not true.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of the Chicago area lined up Saturday to attend a
citizenship workshop at St. Pius Church. (Photo by Kenneth Dickerman for The New
York Times)
Roberto Alejandro, 78, left, joined in an immigration demonstration yesterday at
the Gregg County Courthouse in Longview, Tex. A few thousand people marched
yesterday down Main Street in Danbury, Conn. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York
Times)
 (Photo by Mario Villafuerte for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              425 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sense and Sandwiches

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 731 words


The proletariat celebrated May Day by taking to the streets of America to demand
lower wages.

That's effectively what immigrants across America were doing yesterday, at least
according to the economists who believe that allowing more immigration would
depress the wages of unskilled workers in America. If that's true, then the
immigrants already working in low-paid jobs here will suffer if there's a surge
of new arrivals.

Yet immigrants yesterday skipped work, boycotted stores and attended rallies to
support freer immigration. Some are illegal immigrants who want Congress to
legalize their status, but many of the protesters already have green cards. Why
do they welcome new competitors for their jobs?

The clearest answers I've found come from the international panel of experts I
consulted at the Sunrise Cafe, the deli near my office where I get tuna
sandwiches. It's staffed by immigrants from five countries in Central America
and South America. They offered a couple of explanations: one economic, one
moral.

They wonder, to begin with, if new immigrants are really much of an economic
threat, and they're not alone in their skepticism. Although some economists
calculate that immigrants have depressed wages for low-skilled workers by 8
percent, many others estimate the decline is only half that much. And others
believe there's virtually no harm done, because businesses expand to create new
jobs.

To the extent that anyone's hurt by immigration, the burden falls not so much on
the people complaining the loudest -- American-born workers -- but on the
immigrants who are already here. The new immigrants have a harder time competing
for jobs against English-speaking natives than against fellow immigrants.

Patricia Cortes of M.I.T. calculates that a 10 percent increase in immigration
would reduce the wages of low-skilled natives by less than 1 percent, while
causing an 8 percent reduction in the pay of the low-skilled immigrants already
here.

Some of the immigrants at the Sunrise Cafe suspect that their wages might be
affected, but they're still committed to the pro-immigration cause. Although
they went to work yesterday, they vowed not to do any shopping, and most planned
to go to a rally or march after work.

They told me they didn't see themselves as activists marching for Latino civil
rights or political power. They said they supported freer immigration not to
help themselves -- they were already citizens or had green cards -- but simply
to give others the same chance they'd had.

''People need to support their families,'' said one of the cashiers, Carmen
Salcedo, who arrived three years ago from Panama. ''Here you can earn four times
as much as you could earn in my country.''

In between grilling sandwiches, Jorge Alvarez said he couldn't blame anyone for
leaving El Salvador, as he had 19 years earlier. ''There are not enough good
jobs there,'' he said. ''If people want to work hard, it's not fair to deny them
the opportunity to come here.''

The reasoning at the deli makes more sense than what I've been hearing from some
intellectuals who want to restrict immigration in the name of social justice.
Although more immigration may be a net benefit to the American economy, they've
argued, it's not fair because it hurts low-income Americans and exacerbates the
gap between rich and poor.

But even if you accept the debatable economic premise that low-income workers
are significantly harmed, the argument fails on moral grounds. It flunks the
famous ''veil of ignorance'' test of John Rawls, the quintessential liberal
philosopher who stressed protections for the least fortunate members of society.
Social rules are fair, he wrote in ''A Theory of Justice,'' if you would endorse
them without knowing what your position in society would be.

Suppose you were setting immigration policy from behind that veil of ignorance.
Which of these would you choose?

(1) Restricting immigration to protect some of the lower-paid workers in America
from a decline in wages that would be no more than 8 percent, if it occurred at
all.

(2) Expanding immigration to benefit most Americans while also giving some
non-Americans living in dire poverty the chance to quadruple their income.

You don't need to slog through ''A Theory of Justice'' to figure out this one.
You can get the answer at the Sunrise Cafe -- and an excellent sandwich, too.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              426 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands Turn Out, But Support Is Mixed Among City's Immigrants

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL; Reporting for this article was contributed by Ann
Farmer, Kate Hammer, Jennifer Medina and Mick Meenan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: NEW YORK;
Pg. 18

LENGTH: 654 words


At his corner grocery on Coney Island Avenue in Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, Tariq
Asheik minded the store alone yesterday morning, having given his two Mexican
employees the day off to join rallies in support of immigrant rights.

''I love immigrants,'' said Mr. Asheik, who is from Pakistan. ''Everyone's an
immigrant here.''

Along the unusually quiet commercial strip, dozens of Hispanics and Pakistanis
joined hands to form a human chain.

But up the street at his sign store, David Lanzman said he had no plans to close
his business, despite the shuttering of other stores nearby in gestures of
support.

''Who's going to secure the store?'' said Mr. Lanzman, a Romanian who immigrated
to the United States more than 30 years ago. ''Maybe I lose $1,000 or $2,000.''

Across the New York region, thousands of people took part in demonstrations and
an economic boycott called for by some immigration leaders and labor unions,
culminating in a demonstration last evening by tens of thousands of people in
Union Square in Manhattan. But despite the large turnout of Hispanics, there was
far from uniform support for the rallies among all immigrant groups.

The divide was visible in New York City, where immigrants from different
countries live side by side. In Ditmas Park, the door to La Nueva Union, a
Mexican bakery, was locked, while a nearby film developing shop, owned by a
Pakistani man, remained open.

Denise Rodriguez, a Mexican immigrant who works as a maid, said she stayed home
from work and kept her two young sons home from school yesterday to attend a
rally. Education officials said attendance in city schools yesterday was down
about 6 percent.

In the Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn, which is home to large numbers of
Hispanics and Asians, about 3,000 people, mostly Hispanic, turned out for a
midday rally, although Asian-owned businesses largely remained open. That was to
be expected, said Artemio Guerra, a rally organizer, who said legislation
pending before Congress that would overhaul immigration law was a ''racial
attack on Hispanics.''

Some of the store closings and rallies took place at 12:16 p.m., a time chosen
as a symbolic protest against the passage of the bill by the House of
Representatives on Dec. 16 last year.

One of the most visible demonstrators in Sunset Park was Sylvia Garcia, an
immigrant from Mexico, who held a large hand-lettered sign reading, ''I lost my
job to be here today.'' Ms. Garcia, 32, said she was dismissed from her job as a
cashier at Cafe O in Midtown Manhattan, along with five co-workers, after
attending the rally without being given the day off, an account confirmed by
Patrick Lee, the manager.

''They came last minute without a heads up,'' Mr. Lee, an immigrant from Korea,
said yesterday as he worked a long day as cashier. ''I understand their
situation, but I don't understand why she didn't give me a heads up.''

In Jackson Heights, Queens, an area with a large Central and South American
population, thousands of people poured onto 37th Avenue, waving flags and
holding signs adorned with a red apple reading, ''I love immigrant New York!''

In Albany, the State Assembly, controlled by Democrats, stopped business for the
day to show support for the national rallies. Shortly after the session was
called to order around 3 p.m., about two dozen Assembly members turned and
walked out in silence. The Assembly adjourned several minutes later, without
acting on any legislation.

On Long Island, where the most visible pools of immigrant labor are the outdoor
sites where Hispanic men and women gather to wait for daily work, the boycott
appeared more uniform.

Along Willis Avenue in Roslyn, where a line of hundreds of Hispanic men awaiting
work usually stretches for nearly a mile, there was no one yesterday, said the
Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, an advocate for immigrants.

''It looked like the streets were abandoned,'' Mr. Ramirez said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 5, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about divisions among immigrants in New York
over the nationwide boycott in support of immigrants' legal status misidentified
the Long Island location referred to by the Rev. Allan B. Ramirez, an advocate
for immigrants, where Hispanic laborers awaiting work usually form a line nearly
a mile long. It is on Grand Avenue in New Cassel.

  The article also referred incorrectly to another Long Island site mentioned by
Mr. Ramirez. It is a store in Roslyn Heights, not Roslyn, and it normally
attracts smaller groups of laborers, not long lines. The street name at that
point is Mineola Avenue, not Willis Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An immigration rally last evening in Union Square in Manhattan,
above, drew tens of thousands of people, while others gathered earlier in the
day for demonstrations in Chinatown, right, and other New York neighborhoods.
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              427 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

TODAY IN BUSINESS

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 575 words



IMMIGRATION PROTESTS -- Hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their supporters
skipped work and school and marched in dozens of cities from coast to coast. The
demonstrations did not bring the nation to a halt as planned by some organizers,
though they conveyed in peaceful but sometimes boisterous ways the resolve of
those who favor loosening the country's laws on immigration. [Page A1.]



RETREAT ON TAX PLAN -- Senate Republicans hurriedly abandoned a broad tax
proposal opposed by the oil industry and business community, another sign of
their struggle to come up with a legislative answer to high gasoline prices.
[A1.]

BOLIVIAN OIL -- President Evo Morales of Bolivia on Monday ordered the military
to occupy energy fields around the Andean country as he placed Bolivia's
plentiful oil and gas reserves under state control. [A9.]

NEW ECONOMIC DATA -- Robust spending on homes, cars and other consumer goods
kept the economy moving at a brisk pace and sent a crucial measure of inflation
higher in March, the Commerce Department reported, renewing concerns that the
Federal Reserve will have to raise interest rates further. [C1.]

CHURCHES AND PENSIONS -- Under a little-known aspect of pension law, churches
and organizations affiliated with them can opt out of the costly and complicated
rules that apply to secular employers. Tens of thousands of people work for
organizations that have opted out of the law, and most do not know that they are
exposed to large losses. [A1.]

DETERMINED TO GO WEST -- BenQ, whose cellphone unit primarily made handsets for
big companies like Motorola, formed a venture with Siemens so it could sell its
own branded phones beyond Taiwan and China. But by trying to reach consumers in
the West, BenQ now competes more directly with the companies it used to sell to,
and some are taking their business elsewhere. [C1.]

S.U.V. LAWSUIT -- Ten states, including California and New York, plan to file a
lawsuit to force the Bush administration to toughen mileage regulations for
sport utility vehicles and other trucks. [A21.]

GOOGLE VS. MICROSOFT -- The rivalry between Google and Microsoft is growing more
combative, and with good reason: the outcome is likely to shape the future of
competition in computing and the way people use information technology. To
succeed, Microsoft has to make strong inroads into Internet services and
software, where Google is a leader. [C1.]

INTEL'S INTERNET PLAN -- Intel plans to announce a design for a sub-$400
educational laptop and a five-year, $1 billion program to train teachers and to
extend wireless digital Internet access worldwide. The initiative comes as Intel
is embarking on what it says will be a $1 billion restructuring program in the
face of declining market share. [C3.]

ENRON TESTIMONY -- Having $100 million in personal debt did not stop Kenneth L.
Lay from spending $200,000 on a birthday cruise for his wife and holding onto
some $30 million in real estate, even as banks were demanding repayment,
according to testimony at his trial. [C3.]

STOCKS DIP -- Anxiety over interest rates sent stocks lower. The Dow Jones
industrial average slid 23.85 points, to 11,343.29. The Standard & Poor's 500
dropped 5.42 points, to 1,305.19, and the Nasdaq lost 17.78 points, to 2,304.79.
[C6.]

QUESTIONS ON MEDICAL STUDIES -- Recent disclosures of fraudulent or flawed
studies in medical and scientific journals have called into question the merits
of their peer-review system. [F1.]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''Google per share''Last Monday: $440.50Yesterday: $398.90

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              428 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 5, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

60's Latino Militant Now Pursues a Personal Quest

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, May 1


The man once called King Tiger, a description fitting for one of the most
militant of radical Latino leaders of the 1960's, now walks with a cane. Almost
forgotten by new generations of Latinos clamoring for immigrant rights, the man,
Reies Lopez Tijerina, faces his own immigration dilemma.

Hobbled by diabetes and years of self-exile in Mexico, Mr. Tijerina, born 79
years ago to a family of cotton pickers in South Texas, spends his days at a
community center here, or in a modest two-room house across the border in Ciudad
Juarez, searching for a way for his wife to return legally with him to the
United States. Immigration authorities have refused to grant residency to his
Mexican-born wife, Esperanza Garcia, whom Mr. Tijerina married more than a
decade ago in Mexico.

''It's as if I'm being pursued because of my past acts,'' Mr. Tijerina said in a
rare interview, accompanied by one of his 10 children and two of his 35
grandchildren.

His existence is far removed from the days when he was a leader in the
land-rights struggle in New Mexico. He was thrust into the national spotlight in
1967 after leading an armed raid on a courthouse in Rio Arriba County in which
two men were shot and others taken hostage. That violence led to a manhunt for
Mr. Tijerina and more than two years in prison; his exploits were celebrated in
folk songs like ''The Ballad of Rio Arriba.''

That event injected radicalism into the Chicano rights movement and was the
crowning moment for a man with an unconventional personal trajectory. Largely
self-educated, Mr. Tijerina traveled throughout the United States as a
Pentecostal evangelist before founding a utopian religious community in the
Arizona desert with 17 families in 1956.

It was as leader of that group, Valle de Paz, where Mr. Tijerina says he had a
vision involving three angels, an event advancing him into advocacy over the
land grants the Spanish crown had given settlers centuries ago in what is
today's Southwest. He formed the Alianza Federal de Mercedes Reales, which
claimed that Anglo speculators took control of much of that land in violation of
the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which ended the Mexican-American War in 1848.

Since the turbulent 60's, however, Mr. Tijerina has largely fallen from public
view. His politics evolved from confrontation to coalitions, and he wrote a
lengthy memoir in Spanish, ''Mi Lucha por la Tierra'' (''My Fight for the
Land''), published in Mexico in 1978. After his house in New Mexico was
destroyed by fire in 1994, Mr. Tijerina moved to Uruapan, in central Mexico,
where he married for a third time and lived quietly until decamping last month
to Juarez.

''People are continuously surprised to find out he's still alive,'' said Rudy V.
Busto, a professor of religious studies at the University of California, Santa
Barbara, and the author of a new book on Mr. Tijerina's religious thinking.

''He could easily be dismissed as absolutely crazy, but if you sit with him and
give him an opening he will convert you,'' Professor Busto said. ''His worldview
is internally consistent and based upon an adherence to divine authority found
in sacred and historical texts.''

Mr. Tijerina still employs a preacher's mastery of communication, citing
Scripture and law, repeating his main points and reaching out to his audience,
sometimes tapping them on the shoulder. On immigration, he said illegal
immigrants were ''simply coming back to their land,'' a nod to Mexico's control
of the Southwest until the mid-19th century.

''Bush's own ranch is on stolen land,'' he said, explaining how Texas, including
President Bush's ranch near Crawford, was wrenched away from Mexico by
secessionists in 1836.

Rose Diaz, a research historian, said, ''Reies has a right not to trust
government.'' Ms. Diaz secured Mr. Tijerina's personal papers for the political
archives at the University of New Mexico. The documents, which include
declassified parts of the Federal Bureau of Investigation file on Mr. Tijerina,
show that the agency monitored him for more than a decade while repeatedly
trying to infiltrate the Alianza.

At times, Mr. Tijerina's thinking veers into the bizarre. He insists with
prophetic intensity and theological references, for instance, that the United
States is flirting with nuclear disaster through its military actions in the
Middle East. He is also immersed in Jewish Scripture and history, and frequently
refers to Israel's military strength and tension with radical Islam.

Mr. Tijerina rejects charges of anti-Semitism, however, saying he believes that
many Spanish-speaking inhabitants of the Americas are descended from Semitic
peoples or Sephardic Jews who fled the Spanish Inquisition. ''I'm an Israelite
by blood and faith,'' Mr. Tijerina said.

Guiding a visitor over the bridge connecting El Paso and Juarez, Mr. Tijerina
lamented the difficulty in securing a visa for his wife. His cinderblock home on
the corner of Heroes de Carrizal and Bobicora Streets in a rundown barrio has
concrete floors, a bed, some plastic chairs and no telephone.

Mr. Tijerina said he relied on his wife to prepare healthy meals and ensure he
took diabetes medication. Ms. Garcia said she had been trying to get the visa
for three years, stymied most recently by a requirement for an additional
financial sponsor in the event of Mr. Tijerina's death.

''We're living a type of punishment,'' Ms. Garcia, 60, said softly in Spanish.

Neither Mr. Tijerina, unable to draw on Social Security after never holding a
formal job, nor Ms. Garcia, a former seamstress, has retirement income. A
granddaughter gave them a small television set for their home in Juarez last
week.

Mr. Tijerina said he dreamed of returning to northern New Mexico, where he owns
land near the town of Coyote. His spine straightened as he touched on the
struggle for land ownership in that area, and on the machinations of its shift
long ago from the fringe of one empire to another.

''The Anglos were our friends in the daytime,'' Mr. Tijerina said. ''At
nighttime they were assassins.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reies Lopez Tijerina, a central figure in the Chicano land
rights effort of the 60's, in his home in Mexico. (Photo by Rick Scibelli Jr.
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              429 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

POLL GIVES BUSH WORST MARKS YET ON MAJOR ISSUES

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and MEGAN THEE; Marjorie Connelly and Marina Stefan
contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words


Americans have a bleaker view of the country's direction than at any time in
more than two decades, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
Sharp disapproval of President Bush's handling of gasoline prices has combined
with intensified unhappiness about Iraq to create a grim political environment
for the White House and Congressional Republicans.

Mr. Bush's approval ratings for his management of foreign policy, Iraq and the
economy have fallen to the lowest levels of his presidency. He drew poor marks
on the issues that have been at the top of the national agenda in recent months,
in particular immigration and gasoline prices.

Just 13 percent approved of Mr. Bush's handling of rising gasoline prices. About
a quarter said they approved of his handling of immigration, as Congressional
Republicans try to come up with a compromise for handling the influx of illegal
immigrants into the country.

The poll showed a further decline in support for the Iraq war, the issue that
has most eaten into Mr. Bush's public support. The percentage of respondents who
said going to war in Iraq was the correct decision slipped to a new low of 39
percent, down from 47 percent in January. Two-thirds said they had little or no
confidence that Mr. Bush could successfully end the war.

The poll comes six months before Election Day and well before Labor Day, when
Congressional campaigns will be fully engaged. Mr. Bush has shaken up his staff
in an effort to improve his political fortunes, and White House aides said they
were confident that events in Iraq were improving and that the political effects
of high gasoline prices could fade by the election.

Nevertheless, the Times/CBS News poll contained few if any bright notes for Mr.
Bush or Congress.

Mr. Bush's political strength continues to dissipate. About two-thirds of poll
respondents said he did not share their priorities, up from just over half right
before his re-election in 2004. About two-thirds said the country was in worse
shape than it was when he became president six years ago. Forty-two percent of
respondents said they considered Mr. Bush a strong leader, a drop of 11 points
since January.

Mr. Bush's overall job approval rating hit another new low, 31 percent, tying
the low point of his father in July 1992, four months before the elder Mr. Bush
lost his bid for a second term to Bill Clinton. That is the third lowest
approval rating of any president in 50 years; only Richard M. Nixon and Jimmy
Carter were viewed less favorably.

Mr. Bush is even losing support from what has been his base: 51 percent of
conservatives and 69 percent of Republicans approve of the way Mr. Bush is
handling his job. In both cases, those figures are a substantial drop in support
from four months ago.

''We should have stayed out of Iraq until we knew more about it,'' Bernice
Davis, a Republican from Lamar, Mo., who said she now disapproved of Mr. Bush's
performance, said in a follow-up interview on Tuesday. ''The economy is going to
pot. Gas prices are escalating. I just voted for Bush because he's a Republican,
even though I disapproved of the war. If I could go back, I would not vote for
him.''

Although the composition of Congressional districts will make it hard for the
Democrats to recapture control of Congress in the fall, the poll suggested that
the trend was moving in their direction. Just 23 percent said they approved of
the job Congress was doing, down from 29 percent in January. That is about the
same level of support for Congress as in the fall of 1994, when Republicans
seized control of the House.

Americans said Democrats would do a better job dealing with Iraq, gasoline
prices, immigration, taxes, prescription drug prices and civil liberties.

Fifty percent said Democrats came closer than Republicans to sharing their moral
values, compared with 37 percent who said Republicans shared their values. A
majority said Republican members of Congress were more likely to be financially
corrupt than Democratic members of Congress, suggesting that Democrats may be
making headway in their efforts to portray Republicans as having created a
''culture of corruption'' in Washington.

By better than two to one, Democrats were seen as having more new ideas than
Republicans. And half of respondents, the highest number yet, said it was better
when different parties controlled the two branches of Congress, reflecting one
of the major arguments being laid out by Congressional Democrats in their bid to
win back the House or the Senate.

Americans said that Republicans would be better at maintaining a stronger
military than Democrats. But the Republicans had only a slight edge on combating
terrorism, an issue that has helped account for the party's political dominance
since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

The nationwide telephone poll, of 1,241 adults, was conducted from May 4 to May
8. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

Seventy percent of respondents said the country was heading in the wrong
direction, compared with 23 percent who said they approved of the direction in
which the country was heading. Those findings are not significantly different
from the responses to a CBS News poll last week and suggest that Americans are
more pessimistic about the country's direction than at any other time in the 23
years that The Times and CBS News have asked the question.

Immigration is another issue undercutting Republicans and Mr. Bush. As
Republicans battle over how to respond to illegal immigration, the poll found
considerable opposition to the strict measures being pressed by conservative
Republicans in the House.

About 60 percent of respondents said they favored the plan proposed by some
Republicans in the Senate that would permit illegal immigrants who had worked in
the United States for at least two years to keep their jobs and apply for
citizenship. Just 35 percent endorsed the view of some conservatives that
illegal immigrants should be deported. Two-thirds opposed building a 700-mile
fence along the United States-Mexican border.

The two biggest problems for Mr. Bush and Republicans are gasoline prices and
Iraq. By 57 percent to 11 percent, respondents said they trusted Democrats more
than Republicans to find a way to curb gasoline prices.

Nearly two-thirds of respondents said the increase in gasoline prices was not
beyond the control of a president, but 89 percent said this administration did
not have a plan to deal with the problem.

More than two-thirds said the war in Iraq was to blame for at least some of the
increase in gasoline prices. Seventy-one percent said they believed that oil
companies were profiting from higher prices, and a majority said oil companies
were much closer to the Republican Party than to the Democratic Party.

''Bush could put in some kind of regulation to control the profits of the oil
companies,'' said Jane North, 43, a Republican from Reisterstown, Md., who said
she recently changed her registration to Democrat. ''He comes from the oil
business, so he certainly knows how it works. I think Bush will just run out his
term and not do anything to control gas prices.''

On Iraq, two-thirds of poll respondents said they disapproved of how the
president had handled the war. Fifty-six percent said going to war in the first
place was a mistake, up from 50 percent in January. And 60 percent said things
were going ''somewhat or very badly'' in the drive to stabilize the country.
Sixty-three percent disapproved of Mr. Bush's handling of foreign policy in
general.

Still, 55 percent said they believed the effort in Iraq was somewhat or very
likelyto succeed.

''We have enough problems here at home without worrying about Iraq,'' said Bill
Trego, 64, a Republican from Waymart, Pa.

''I believed him at first, in the beginning,'' Mr. Trego said of Mr. Bush,
''that there were weapons of mass destruction and if that was a fact, it was
probably not a bad move to go in there. But they didn't find anything. When they
couldn't prove it, I realized it was just a barefaced lie.''

The problems plaguing the Republicans have clearly helped the Democrats: 55
percent said they now had a favorable view of the Democratic Party, compared
with 37 percent with an unfavorable view. By contrast, 57 percent had an
unfavorable view of Republicans, compared with 37 percent who had a favorable
view.

The political situation has not helped some of the more prominent members of the
Democratic Party. Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, who was Mr. Bush's
opponent in 2004, had a lower approval rating than Mr. Bush: 26 percent, down
from 40 percent in a poll conducted right after the election.

And just 28 percent said they had a favorable view of Al Gore, one of Mr. Bush's
more vocal critics.

How the Poll Was Conducted

  The latest New York Times/CBS News poll is based on telephone interviews
conducted May 4 through May 8 with 1,241 adults throughout the United States.
For purposes of analysis, respondents age 65 and older were oversampled and then
weighted back to their proper proportion of all adults.

The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer
from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges
nationwide.

Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone
number, permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each
household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent
for the survey.

The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of
telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample
relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education.

In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will
differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what
would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.

For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. For instance, for
the 500 respondents age 65 and older, it is plus or minus four points.

In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any
survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.
Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to
somewhat different results.

Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its analysis.

Complete questions and results are at nytimes.com/polls.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Perceptions of the President and the Parties''Do you approve
or disapprove of the way George W. Bush is handling the following?Graphs track
whether people approve or disapprove of the President's job since 2001 regarding
the following:His job as presidentThe campaign against terrorismForeign
policyThe economyThe situation with Iraq(An additional graph tracks approval or
disapproval in relation to how Congress has been doing its job since
2001)Regardless of how you usually vote, do you think the Republican Party or
the Democratic Party is more likely to . . .. . . make sure military defenses
are strong?REPUBLICAN: 55%DEMOCRAT: 29NO OPINION: 7NEITHER: 2BOTH: 7. . . make
the right decisions when it comes to dealing with terrorism?REPUBLICAN:
40DEMOCRAT: 35NO OPINION: 15NEITHER: 4BOTH: 6. . . come closer to sharing your
moral values?REPUBLICAN: 37DEMOCRAT: 50NO OPINION: 7NEITHER: 5BOTH: 1. . . make
the right decisions about the war in Iraq?REPUBLICAN: 30DEMOCRAT: 48NO OPINION:
15NEITHER: 5BOTH: 3. . . make the right decisions when it comes to dealing with
immigration issues?REPUBLICAN: 29DEMOCRAT: 45NO OPINION: 16NEITHER: 5BOTH: 4. .
. make sure the tax system is fair?REPUBLICAN: 27DEMOCRAT: 55NO OPINION:
8NEITHER: 8BOTH: 2. . . improve education?REPUBLICAN: 25DEMOCRAT: 53NO OPINION:
11NEITHER: 4BOTH: 7. . . protect your civil liberties?REPUBLICAN: 22DEMOCRAT:
62NO OPINION: 8NEITHER: 3BOTH: 5. . . have more new ideas?REPUBLICAN:
21DEMOCRAT: 45NO OPINION: 17NEITHER: 13BOTH: 4. . . improve the health care
system?REPUBLICAN: 19DEMOCRAT: 62NO OPINION: 10NEITHER: 6BOTH: 2make
prescription drugs for the elderly more affordable?REPUBLICAN: 18DEMOCRAT: 61NO
OPINION: 14NEITHER: 5BOTH: 2see to it that gasoline prices are low?REPUBLICAN:
11DEMOCRAT: 57NO OPINION: 14NEITHER: 14BOTH: 3Totals may not add up to 100
because of rounding.(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              430 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEW YORK ASIANS FACE HIDDEN RISK

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA and MARC SANTORA; Lawrence K. Altman contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words


Among east Asian immigrants in New York City, one person in seven carries the
hepatitis B virus, a new study has found. The condition puts them at far greater
risk than other Americans for deadly diseases like liver cancer and cirrhosis.

Most of the people tested had no idea that they were infected, a fact that
frustrates doctors who know that with proper screening and treatment, the
disease can be controlled, if not cured. But three-quarters of the people in the
study had no health insurance, and even those who did had trouble getting
coverage for screening.

The study, led by researchers at New York University School of Medicine, found
that 15 percent of east Asians in New York -- as many as 100,000 people -- are
chronic hepatitis carriers, with the rate highest among immigrants from China.
That infection rate is 35 times the rate found in the general population.

Because Hepatitis B is endemic in many Asian countries, growth in the number of
Asian immigrants in New York and across the country has made the disease a
broad, expensive, emerging health problem. In the 2000 census, there were
800,000 Asians in the city, with roughly half from China.

Hepatitis B, like hepatitis C, is generally contracted through the blood, and is
not transmitted through casual contact with infected people. Hepatitis A, which
is caused by a different virus, can be transmitted through food, but hepatitis B
cannot, with very rare exceptions.

Since the development a generation ago of a vaccine that is given to nearly all
children born in the United States and to many adults who are considered at
risk, hepatitis B has become rare in this country. While doctors have long
worried about the disease in immigrant groups who come from countries like China
-- which does not have a comprehensive national vaccination program -- little
has been done to raise awareness of the danger.

''The health care costs are enormous,'' said Dr. Henry J. Pollack, the lead
author of the study, which is to be published late this week in the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention's journal, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.
''If you're giving what would be considered to be the proper care for all these
people, it would be hundreds of millions of dollars.''

People can carry the hepatitis B virus for decades without showing any signs of
illness, until it causes life-threatening diseases like cancer or cirrhosis.
''That often is the first sign of trouble,'' said Dr. Pollack, an associate
professor at the medical school.

The New York State cancer registry shows rates of liver cancer among
Asian-Americans 6 to 10 times as high as for whites, Dr. Pollack said, a
difference that is mostly attributable to hepatitis B. And those figures may
underestimate the disparity, because many immigrants who become sick return to
their native countries.

Hepatitis B is prevalent in many poor countries, and there are an estimated 350
million cases worldwide. It is most common in China, but scientists do not
understand why. In this country, hepatitis B is associated with transmission by
sex and intravenous drug use. But in Asia, the disease most commonly passes from
mothers who do not know they have it to their children in the womb. It may also
be transmitted among children who have close physical contact.

Dr. Thomas Tsang, another principal investigator in the study, said the results
confirmed that Asian-Americans face a major health problem that is not captured
by national statistics. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has
estimated that just 0.4 percent of all Americans have chronic hepatitis B, but
experts say that may undercount people from Asia.

''In this past week alone, from those people we screened, I have seen 7 to 10
people who needed to be started on medication because they had abnormal liver
tests,'' said Dr. Tsang, who is chief medical officer of the Charles B. Wang
Community Health Center in New York City. Those are people, who without the
screening program, would probably have gone untreated until they got so sick
they ended up in the hospital.

Representative Mike Honda, Democrat of California and chairman of the
Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, said California faced a problem
similar to New York's, one that was going largely unrecognized. ''To not do
something, when we know we can, is criminal,'' he said.

Early detection and suppression of the virus can interrupt the cycle of
mother-to-child transmission. An adult immune system can usually fight off a new
hepatitis B infection, though a small number of cases become chronic. But, Dr.
Pollack said, ''If you get it when you're an infant, your chance of getting
chronic hepatitis B is greater than 90 percent.''

In the last decade, doctors have been able to use an array of new drugs to treat
chronic infection, but they do not cure the disease. Rather, they often suppress
the virus so that it causes little or no harm. The medication must be taken for
life.

Previous, smaller studies, cited in the N.Y.U. report, have also found high
rates of infection among foreign-born Asian Americans, some as high as 15
percent. But the authors of the N.Y.U. report say theirs is the most
comprehensive look at the problem, and the first to search not only for the
number of people with hepatitis, but also for significant patterns within those
numbers.

The researchers found that people from Fujian province -- the biggest source of
Chinese immigration to the United States in recent years -- had the highest rate
of infection, which corresponds to findings by the Chinese government. Men
between the ages of 20 to 39 were also more likely than other groups to have the
virus; overall, men were twice as likely as women to be infected.

The researchers screened 1,836 Asian-born adults last year at 12 sites in
heavily Asian neighborhoods in Queens, Brooklyn and Manhattan. More screenings
have been conducted this year, but those results have not yet been analyzed.

Some 61 percent of the subjects, who volunteered for the screening, were born in
China, and 30 percent were born in Korea. A small number were from other parts
of Asia, and those groups had much lower rates of infection than the Chinese.

Over all, 24 percent of the people screened were found to carry the virus, but
that included a large number of people who said they had been tested before, and
may already have known that they were infected. Those people might have sought
screening to obtain confirmation or treatment. Among those who had been tested
previously, 40 percent were infected.

Among those who said they had never been tested, who were just over half the
subjects, 15 percent, tested positive. The researchers concluded that this
figure, not the higher number, reflected infection rates in the east Asian
population as a whole.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: The chronic hepatitis B infection rate among Asians in New York
City is higher among those who are . . .. . . male. . . 20 to 39 years old. . .
born in China. . . in the U.S. less than six yearsSEXMale -- 20%Female -- 9%AGE
GROUP20-29 -- 25%30-39 -- 22%40-49 -- 15%50-59 -- 9%60+ -- 4%COUNTRY OF
BIRTHChina -- 21%South Korea -- 5%Other Asian countries -- 4%YEARS IN THE
U.S.Less than 6 -- 22%6-10 -- 16%11 or more -- 12%No response -- 7%(Source by
New York University School of Medicine)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              431 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Day an Immigrant Refugee Can Say, 'I'm an American'

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: FAIRFAX, Va.


My mom sounded both rushed and chirpy when she called Wednesday morning: ''I'm
driving myself to the beauty parlor to get my hair done.''

''What are you, crazy?'' I said. She got out of the hospital a week and a half
ago after orthopedic surgery, and can't really walk yet, let alone drive.

''Tomorrow I become an American citizen, and I am not taking the oath of
citizenship with dirty hair.''

As the debate over immigration reform swirls in Washington and around the
country, the emotional significance behind the phrase ''path to citizenship''
can be lost. I've been reading articles about border patrols and National
Guardsmen; I've seen TV reports conjuring up the fearsome specter of classrooms
filled with children speaking Spanish, as if that would somehow threaten the
very American-ness of our existence.

What I hadn't seen, and had somehow managed to forget, was why the path to
citizenship is so important. Why isn't the green card or the work permit enough?

My family moved here in bits and pieces from Liberia, fleeing coups, revolutions
and civil wars. My mom came in 1990, after Charles Taylor invaded Liberia and
started a war that would kill 500,000 people in Liberia, Ivory Coast and Sierra
Leone.

She came on a one-month tourist visa, and initially got a job as a home health
aide. It was a far cry from our well-off existence in Liberia. But who wouldn't
rather be poor in America than rich in a country where soldiers could enter your
home, rape your children and murder your parents? Eventually she got a green
card, and has since retired. I became a citizen in 1997, but for 16 years, my
mother could not call herself an American.

Yesterday, my younger sister and I drove her to the Homeland Security
Department's office in suburban Virginia, where 63 immigrants were to become
citizens. We were late, and everyone looked tense, as if they were afraid that
something they wanted so badly could be yanked away at the last minute.

Standing at the front of the room was Robert Schofield, the supervisory
adjudications officer. At first, he rubbed me the wrong way. He kept repeating
that people should come up as their names were called, but not to come up if
they hadn't filled out citizenship forms. My mom became flustered -- of course
she hadn't filled out her form. As soon as I handed her a pen, Mr. Schofield
called out her name. My mom reached for her walker, grabbed her bag, dropped the
pen, dropped the form. ''It's O.K., Mommy,'' my sister said.

Eventually all 63 people were seated in front of the dais. Mr. Schofield smiled
at them. ''All right, folks,'' he said. ''Today you are going to become U.S.
citizens.''

Suddenly he didn't seem so officious anymore, and the tension in the room
started to ease. The 63 -- from El Salvador, the Philippines, China, South
Korea, Afghanistan, Bolivia and Liberia -- all stood. The woman from Afghanistan
was wearing a gorgeous cream abaya, her eyes lined with kohl. She looked at my
mom and smiled.

A woman named Phyllis Howard, the immigration agency's district director,
administered the oath of allegiance. My mom teared up while singing ''The
Star-Spangled Banner,'' but not when they played a patriotic video with Lee
Greenwood singing ''God Bless the USA.''

I've always thought that was a sappy song, too, but I felt the tears start to
well as I watched my mom staring at images meant to arouse patriotism: that
great statue of the marines at Iwo Jima, the Washington Monument at sunset, a
bald eagle, cherry blossoms around the Jefferson Memorial.

Whenever Lee Greenwood sang the chorus -- ''And I gladly stand up next to you,
and defend her still today'' -- the video showed a graduating Coast Guard class,
standing up. When he sang, '' 'Cause there ain't no doubt I love this land,'' it
showed newly minted immigrants gazing reverently at the American flag and
reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.

This, I suddenly thought, is why a green card isn't enough. There is something
about being able to say you're American that can get you in your gut. Maybe it's
because being American pretty much means you, or your parents or grandparents,
came from somewhere else. For all the national debate about immigration, this
remains a country defined by the diversity of its people. Once you take that
oath, all you have to do is say you're American, and you are.

After the song, Mr. Schofield called out names and handed each person a
naturalization certificate. Everyone posed with him in front of the flag to have
pictures taken.

My mom was the last called. ''Calista Cooper.'' She was standing up, trying to
get her walker. ''Wait, I'll bring it to you,'' he said.

My mom shook her head. ''No,'' she said, pushing her walker up to the dais. ''I
want to be next to the flag.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              432 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Victory for Intolerance in Holland

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 326 words


Immigration is a political mess in America, but it's reasonably tractable
compared with the problem in the Netherlands, which has seen its liberal values
turned inside out by tensions between Muslim immigrants and the Dutch. The
question, broadly speaking, is whether multiculturalism is possible in such a
small, ethnically homogeneous nation, or whether the government will keep
insisting on assimilation. There have been flash points along the way, chief
among them the 2004 murder of the filmmaker Theo van Gogh by a Muslim extremist.
Now there's a new one: the resignation of Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who was born in
Somalia, from Parliament.

When she sought refuge in Holland in 1992, she gave a false birth date and a
false name. She has said so publicly several times. She has explained that she
was trying to escape the marriage her family had arranged for her. After a brief
investigation, the Dutch immigration minister, Rita Verdonk, who is a member of
the same party, insisted on the letter of the law and initially declared that
Ms. Hirsi Ali's citizenship was never valid. Under pressure, Ms. Verdonk has
agreed to reconsider.

But the real point, of course, is that Ms. Hirsi Ali has become too potent a
social critic to be tolerated any longer. In her resignation speech, she said,
''I wanted to put the oppression of immigrant women -- especially Muslim women
-- squarely on the Dutch political agenda.'' This debacle is the measure of her
success.

In the script of Mr. van Gogh's film, ''Submission,'' and in her speeches and
books -- including ''The Caged Virgin,'' which has just been published here --
Ms. Hirsi Ali has been an unflinching advocate of women's rights and an
unflinching critic of Islamic extremism. Her life has been threatened, and she
is still in real danger. Ayaan Hirsi Ali, whose real name is Ayaan Hirsi Magan,
says she plans to leave the Netherlands for the United States. She should be
welcomed here under either name.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              433 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 226 words



Bombing in Gaza Wounds Palestinian Official
The Palestinian intelligence chief, Maj. Gen. Tareq Abu Rajab, was badly wounded
in a bombing in Gaza City that killed his nephew and wounded eight other people.
Later in Gaza, the Israeli military fired missiles that killed a commander of
the Islamic Jihad and three other Palestinians.   PAGE 6

Tensions on Immigration


Arizona is the top gateway, and the deadliest, for illegal immigrants,
accounting for a third of those captured and half of those who died.   PAGE 24

The immigration debate has been rising in force since a 2004 speech by President
Bush.   WEEK IN REVIEW

T: Travel
The New York Times Style Magazine explores the world: from a river expedition in
Suriname to a bucolic, undiscovered part of Tuscany to a surprising surfing
safari in Maine.

Tough Assignment in Newark
The most pressing task for Cory Booker when he becomes mayor of Newark will be
to bring crime and the police under control.   PAGE 33

Columbia Seeks $4 Billion
Columbia University officials say they are moving ahead with plans for the
largest university fund-raising campaign so far, a push to raise $4 billion over
seven years.   PAGE 26

Calling In for God's Word
Strung together by cellphones and free night-and-weekend minutes, a group of
Chinese immigrants derives spiritual sustenance from a conference-call Bible
study group.   PAGE 33

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              434 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Language Bill, the Language Counts

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words


Stirring even more hot sauce into the immigration debate, the Senate last week
approved a measure designating English as the national language.

The designation was contained in an amendment to the immigration bill, and it is
uncertain whether it will survive House-Senate negotiations. But one thing is
clear: declaring English the national language is not quite the same as
declaring it the official one. ''A national language is very different from an
official language policy,'' said April Linton, an assistant professor of
sociology at the University of California, San Diego who specializes in the
sociology of language. Designating a national language, she said, ''recognizes
it as part of a national culture and not something enforced in terms of
education or government.''

An official language law, on the other hand, ''can have real consequences for
policies,'' Ms. Linton said.

The Senate amendment includes a general call for the government to ''preserve
and enhance the role of English,'' and supporters said it would not lead to the
dismantling of regulations concerning bilingualism. But opponents say another
clause, which declares that no one has the right to demand that government
services be provided in any language other than English, could open the door to
discrimination.

Fewer than half of the nations in the world have an official language -- and
sometimes they have more than one. ''The interesting thing, though,'' said James
Crawford, a writer on language policy, ''is that a large percentage of them are
enacted to protect the rights of language minority groups, not to establish a
dominant language.''

In Canada, for example, French is an official language along with English. Such
a policy is intended to protect the francophone population, which has remained
distinct for hundreds of years.

''In the United States we don't have that kind of stable bilingualism,'' Mr.
Crawford said. ''We have a pattern of very rapid assimilation.''

A more apt comparison might be to Australia, which like the United States has
had high levels of immigration.

''Australia doesn't have an English-only movement,'' Mr. Crawford said. While
English is the official language, Australia also has a policy that encourages
immigrants to preserve their language and English-speakers to learn new ones,
all to benefit trade and security.

''They don't use language as a lightning rod for expressing your views on
immigration,'' Mr. Crawford said. ''Language has not become a major symbolic
dividing line.''   HENRY FOUNTAIN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              435 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Police Stage Raids, Netting 8 Terror Suspects

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: LONDON, May 24


Eight people suspected of plotting terrorist attacks abroad were being held
Wednesday after an elaborate series of raids across England that involved 500
police officers, the authorities said.

The eight, who were detained in Manchester, Liverpool and London, were held
under various government powers, the authorities said. Those powers included
antiterrorism and immigration laws that allow the home secretary to deport
foreigners whose presence in the country ''is not conducive to the public good
for reasons of national security.''

The authorities would not release the suspects' names or nationalities, or other
details about them.

The chief constable of the Greater Manchester Police, Michael Todd, described
the raids as ''a major antiterrorist operation'' that had been organized over
many months in conjunction with MI5, the domestic security agency. The detainees
were not planning attacks in Britain, he said.

''We are not talking today about a direct threat to the U.K.,'' he said. ''We
are talking about the facilitation of terrorism overseas. That could include
funding, providing support and encouragement to terrorists.''

He added: ''This is an intelligence-led operation. We have been gathering
intelligence, together with our security service colleagues, for at least a
year, looking at the funding and support of terrorist activities overseas.''

The government of Prime Minister Tony Blair has been under increasing pressure
over its intelligence and immigration lapses, particularly after last summer's
failure to prevent the bombings in London's subways and buses. This month, the
Home Office admitted that it had lost track of hundreds of foreigners who had
served prison terms and were supposed to have been considered for deportation
but who had instead been released.

In Manchester, three people are being held under antiterrorism laws and three
under immigration laws, the police said. Two others -- one in Liverpool and one
in London -- are being held under immigration laws, they said.

The BBC reported that those detained Wednesday were possibly suspected of
planning attacks in Iraq, and said that they were believed to be linked to an
organization called the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group. The authorities refused
to comment or give further details.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              436 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

QUOTATIONS OF THE DAY

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 59 words


''It's fantastic. It's the best thing that could happen for migrants, and for
Mexico.''

PRIMITIVO RODRIGUEZ, an immigrant activist in Mexico, on plans to build walls
along the border with the United States.

''The more walls they build, the more walls we will jump.''

FELIPE CALDERON, the presidential candidate of the conservative National Action
Party. [A12]

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              437 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In California, Fox of Mexico Is Embraced And Snubbed

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Ginger Thompson contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, May 25


In an echo of the debate on immigration under way in Washington, the California
Legislature gave visiting President Vicente Fox of Mexico a two-edged welcome on
Thursday.

Democratic and Latino members, including the Assembly speaker, Fabian Nunez,
embraced Mr. Fox, while some Republicans boycotted his evening address to a
joint session of the Legislature. Other Republicans attended the speech, but
wore yellow buttons reading ''No mas!'' to protest Mr. Fox's support for
liberalizing American policies on immigration.

In his address, Mr. Fox praised the immigration bill passed by the Senate on
Thursday as a ''historic step'' and as a ''moment that millions of families have
been hoping for.''

''Mexico believes that it will take more than just enforcement or building walls
to truly solve the challenges posed by the migration phenomenon,'' he said,
''and that a comprehensive reform is in the interests of both nations.''

Assemblyman Chuck DeVore, Republican of Orange County, refused to attend Mr.
Fox's speech because, he said in an interview, a foreign leader has no right to
come to the United States to lobby openly on a piece of domestic legislation.

''I do not at all appreciate a foreign head of state telling my nation how to
deal with its own sovereignty and the issue of immigration,'' said Mr. DeVore,
an aerospace executive and a lieutenant colonel in the California Army National
Guard.

Mr. DeVore, like many other Republicans in the California Legislature, supports
the House version of national immigration legislation that focuses on securing
the southern border and imposes sanctions on employers who hire illegal
immigrants.

He opposes the provision of the Senate bill that would lead to legalization for
many of the millions of illegal immigrants already in the country, saying it is
nothing more than amnesty for those who broke the law to come here.

Mr. Fox, who is in the last months of his six-year term, is in California on the
final leg of a four-day visit to the United States to advocate comprehensive
immigration legislation, including better enforcement on both sides of the
border. He has also spoken with business and government leaders about expanding
trade, which he said would increase opportunity in Mexico so that fewer Mexicans
feel compelled to sneak into the United States to find work.

He told the California lawmakers that his country would do its share to reduce
the unregulated flow of people across the border. ''We want to be part of the
solution, not part of the problem,'' Mr. Fox said.

He also said: ''Comprehensive reform will help both countries to concentrate on
efforts and resources on addressing our shared security and prosperity concerns.
We are your partners in security against terrorism. We are your allies in the
war on drugs and crime. Let us work together as neighbors, as partners, as
friends.''

Mr. Nunez, who invited Mr. Fox to address the California Legislature, said
lawmakers who boycotted the speech were showing disrespect to an important
neighbor and trading partner.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, met privately with Mr. Fox on Thursday
evening and was then the host at a reception for him.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              438 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hidden in Brothels, Slavery by Another Name

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 783 words


The word spread that there was a new girl at the brothel in Queens, and the
johns began lining up.

''I was crying all night,'' said Kika Cerpa in an interview last week. ''One by
one they came in.''

That first night, she said, ''I had sex with 19 men.''

Afterward, she took a shower, and then the man who had forced her into the sex
trade demanded his turn with her. When she refused (saying, ''I can't have sex
with nobody -- I feel like I'm dead''), he beat her up.

Ms. Cerpa came to the U.S. from Venezuela in 1992. A man she thought of as a
boyfriend convinced her to follow him to New York. Ms. Cerpa reluctantly agreed,
believing that she could get work as a nanny.

When she got here, her ''boyfriend'' and another woman took her passport and
demanded that Ms. Cerpa become a prostitute to work off debts that they said the
boyfriend had incurred. Threatened with bodily harm, and completely intimidated,
she complied.

''They took me to a house, and I sat in a room with other girls,'' she said.
''Men would come in, and I kept my head down the entire time.''

There was nothing unusual about the predicament that confronted Ms. Cerpa -- not
then, when she was 20, and not now. The demand for prostitutes (here in New York
and elsewhere) is much greater than the supply of women who want to be
prostitutes. So trafficking, the coercion of women and young girls into the sex
trade, is a flourishing industry.

The toll that trafficking takes is often horrific. In addition to the forced
prostitution, the women and children who are the victims of trafficking become
part of a landscape in which drug addiction, disease, mental health problems,
beatings and violent death are commonplace.

The worst moment in Ms. Cerpa's three-year entrapment in the hell of
prostitution occurred when a prostitute she had befriended declined to go with a
customer. The john became enraged and shot the woman. Ms. Cerpa ran to her
friend. ''She was dead, lying there with her eyes open,'' she said.

It may seem peculiar, but there is no law against sex trafficking in the state
of New York -- or most other states, for that matter. Many thousands of women
and children are coerced into the sex trade each year, and the pimps, madams and
other lowlifes who trap them are seldom subject to legal sanctions commensurate
with the severity of their crimes.

A bill has been introduced in the State Assembly that would create two new
crimes in New York: trafficking a person for sexual servitude and trafficking a
person for labor servitude. But that bill, which has overwhelming support in the
Assembly (including more than 100 co-sponsors), has been stuck for some time in
the Codes Committee.

This seems inexplicable, because you will find very few legislators lining up
(publicly, at least) with the soft-on-sex-traffickers crowd. I talked yesterday
to the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon Silver, and asked what was
up.

He said that some of the language in the bill needed to be refined, and that his
staffers would be working on it later in the day. He said he thought the
Assembly would be able to pass the bill ''within the next two weeks.'' It would
then go on to the Senate.

I hope so. The bill is a good one. It emphasizes the coercive aspect of
trafficking, which is really about human beings being bought and sold as
commodities -- not just in the commercial sex trade, but also in exploitive
labor situations on farms and in factories and sweatshops.

Trafficking is much more widespread than most people realize. As the advocacy
group Sanctuary for Families has pointed out, ''In our backyards and
communities, a slave trade is flourishing that makes a mockery of our belief in
civil and human rights.''

The Assembly bill, whose primary sponsor is Jeffrey Dinowitz, a Bronx Democrat,
would make trafficking a felony, with penalties ranging from probation for a
first-time offender to a maximum of 15 years in prison. It would modestly raise
the penalties for patronizing a prostitute, making it easier to jail chronic
offenders. And it would provide a defense against arrest for women who were
coerced into prostitution.

Jane Manning, an attorney with the international women's rights organization
Equality Now, said of the trafficked women, ''More often than not they are the
ones who are arrested and end up with criminal convictions that follow them for
the rest of their lives.''

After seeing her friend murdered, Kika Cerpa cooperated with the police and
helped put the killer behind bars. After a long struggle, and with help from
Sanctuary for Families, she has managed to free herself from the pimps and
madams who had controlled her life, and still control so many others.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              439 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing  West: California: Governor Will Send Troops To Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 115 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger agreed to send the California National Guard to the
Mexican border, ending a 17-day standoff with the Bush administration. The two
sides had been at odds over whether California Guard troops would join the
effort to bolster the Border Patrol and who would pay for it. They reached an
agreement under which California will contribute about 1,000 troops and the
federal government will pick up the full cost, said Mr. Schwarzenegger, a
Republican. But in an act that was not part of the agreement with the federal
government, Mr. Schwarzenegger will sign an executive order that ends the
California National Guard's participation on Dec. 31, 2008, state officials
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              440 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Turns to House in Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 960 words

DATELINE: ARTESIA, N.M., June 6


President Bush tried on Tuesday to win back the trust of conservatives who have
distanced themselves from him on immigration, promising to ''get this border
enforced'' and warning those who enter the country illegally that ''if you get
caught, you get sent home.''

After weeks of embracing ''comprehensive immigration reform'' -- Washington
shorthand for a Senate bill that includes a temporary guest-worker program and a
promise of citizenship for some illegal immigrants -- Mr. Bush shifted his tone
in remarks at the Border Patrol training academy here. Having nudged the Senate
into action, Mr. Bush is turning his attention to the House, where Republicans
deride the Senate plan as amnesty and are balking at the idea of compromise.

After watching Border Patrol trainees conduct mock security stops under a
blistering 100-degree sun, Mr. Bush told the agents ''I want the country to pay
attention to what you're doing.''

He promised to add 6,000 agents by 2008 -- bringing the total to 18,000 -- to
build high-tech fences and new patrol roads, and ''to end 'catch and release'
once and for all on the southern border of the United States,'' a reference to
the practice of releasing those who enter illegally and are not immediately sent
home.

The image of Mr. Bush, his collar open and his starched blue shirt sleeves
rolled up, surrounded by Border Patrol agents and trainees clad in olive drab
uniforms in the dusty New Mexico desert, was carefully calibrated to sell the
president's plan to the American people -- and, by extension, their
representatives in Washington.

But the president's tough talk failed to persuade at least one House Republican,
Representative Steve Pearce, who represents Artesia. Mr. Pearce said he was
''not on board with the comprehensive plan,'' even after flying here with Mr.
Bush on Air Force One -- a flight that included a private briefing from the
chief of the Border Patrol, David V. Aguilar, with the homeland security
secretary, Michael Chertoff, hovering nearby. Mr. Pearce said he was encouraged
that ''the idea of securing the border is beginning to be a more dominant
theme,'' but he warned that Congress was in danger of repeating a failed 1986
amnesty law.

''I trust him,'' Mr. Pearce said of the president, ''but I'm not going to vote
for the bill as it currently stands. Out here, we have a saying, 'Trust your
neighbor, but brand your cattle,' and the president will understand that.''

Mr. Bush's midday appearance here was the first stop on a two-day three-state
swing, and came on the day of New Mexico's primary election. Later, he stopped
on the border in Laredo, Tex., where he toured a video surveillance office at
the local Border Patrol headquarters.

On Wednesday, Mr. Bush plans to visit a Catholic relief organization in Omaha,
where he intends to emphasize that immigrants must learn English and assimilate
into American society. Here again, his intent is to assuage conservatives, many
of whom were put off by the sight of demonstrators for immigrants rights waving
the Mexican flag.

But with more than half the American public disapproving of Mr. Bush's job
performance and a midterm election in which Republicans are far more concerned
with their own political futures than that of the president, Mr. Bush's powers
of persuasion are not what they once were. Even the White House press secretary,
Tony Snow, acknowledged that the hurdles to reaching a compromise were high.

''It's going to be a considerable amount of work, yes,'' Mr. Snow said.

And while Mr. Bush is trying to pitch his plan out in the country, some on
Capitol Hill say he needs to get to work behind the scenes in Washington to
bring the House and the Senate together.

''This is more than an Oval Office speech, and it's more than going to New
Mexico,'' Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and the chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in an interview on Monday. Mr. Specter
added, ''I think he's got to get involved in the negotiations, in the nuts and
bolts.''

Even on that score, Mr. Bush must tread lightly; his relations with Republicans
in Congress have soured in recent months over issues like port security and a
raid by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on a congressman's office.

''That's a touchy issue,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas and a
member of the Judiciary Committee, who said Mr. Specter told him, too, that the
president needed to get involved. ''Under the Constitution, the president
doesn't write the legislation. Depending on how he were to handle it, I think it
could well result in some pushback from members of the House who weren't on the
same page.''

One House Republican who has been a staunch foe of Mr. Bush on immigration,
Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, said there was not much the president
could do to bring the two sides together. ''I don't think there's a thing he can
say,'' Mr. Tancredo said.

But Mr. Bush struck an optimistic note, insisting that there is a ''a growing
consensus'' toward compromise.

''I know when you watch your televisions or listen to the radio it seems like
there's nothing but disagreement on immigration policy in Washington,'' he said.
He added, ''While the differences grab the headlines, the similarities in
approaches are striking.''

House Passes Security Budget
By The New York Times

  WASHINGTON, June 6 -- Spending on port and border security would increase by
about 9 percent in the coming year, as part of a $32.08 billion budget for the
Department of Homeland Security that the House approved Tuesday by a 389-to-9
vote.

The plan includes money to hire 2,400 new border patrol and immigration agents
and screen more ship containers entering the United States for radioactive
threats.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Border Patrol agents applauded President Bush yesterday at a
training center for agents in Artesia, N.M. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              441 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 12, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Burmese Woman Can Stay

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


A Burmese woman who was denied asylum in the United States because she had
offered material support to an armed group that opposes the authoritarian
government in her country won the right to stay here temporarily after a panel
of immigration appeals judges ruled last week that she faced the likelihood of
torture in Burma.

The woman, who is being detained in Texas and whose name has not been released,
was one of nearly 500 Burmese asylum seekers threatened with deportation because
of their indirect support for the rebels.

A provision in the antiterror law known as the USA Patriot Act denies entry to
the United States to anyone who has provided material support to a terrorist or
armed rebel group, even if that support was coerced or if the aims of the group
match those of American foreign policy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              442 of 442 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (Nicholas Kristof)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

Letters on Immigration

BYLINE: NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1051 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here&#8217;s some of the commentary from my column about immigration.
Sylvie from Saratoga writes: &#8220;Blaming immigrants for keeping minimum wages
down is a little bit of a short cut. As Bill Maher mentioned in this
week&#8217;s Real Time, it is not the immigrants who keep minimum wages down, it
is Congress who hasn&#8217;t increased the [&#8230;]


Here's some of the commentary from my column about immigration. Sylvie from
Saratoga writes: "Blaming immigrants for keeping minimum wages down is a little
bit of a short cut. As Bill Maher mentioned in this week's Real Time, it is not
the immigrants who keep minimum wages down, it is Congress who hasn't increased
the minimum wage in years. If the minimum wage goes too high for some of us to
be able to afford domestic help, so be it. We'll go back to our brooms, buckets
and lawnmower, or we'll re-arrange our priorities."

Lynn from New York writes: "You mention that your friend Elmer had a union job
for 26/hour.  Who built the unions?  Immigrants.  Once immigrants began to be
forced to live in the shadows, they couldn't protect themselves enable the wages
of all workers to go down.  Bring them into the light and they will fight
alongside Elmer for fair wages, better working conditions, and better
management.  BTW was his union job really snatched by an immigrant, or did it go
overseas?"

Eli from Newton, MA writes: "Immigrants do drive down wages for the poor, but
they also make life less expensive for those who are already well off. In my
affluent neighborhood they mow the lawns, wash the windows, and clean the
houses. Without them we would have to pay a fair wage for these services."

Dave from Plano, TX writes:  "Based on personal experience, I would claim that
it should apply as well to higher education workers.  I and several of my
friends are over 45 I'm 61 engineers and scientists who have been laid off and
cannot find further employment.  Part of this is due to the technical bust, part
due to outsourcing overseas, part due to the bias against experienced thus older
workers but a great deal is also due to our former employers preferring to hire
cheaper recent graduates, most of who are foreign nationals, most commonly from
the Far and Middle East."

Timothy from San Jose writes:  "Low wages has little to do with immigrant
workers but legal minimum wage. Federal minimum wage is only 5.15. In some
places, a simple Burger King Value Meal is 5.65, more than minimum wage. When
the GOP in Congress sees it fit to raise minimum wage for hard working
Americans, we can then talk about immigrants bringing down the wages. Pay me 10
an hour picking fruits and vegetables, I will work in the field 16 hours a day.
Pay me 5.15 an hour, I will rather go work somewhere else."

Pravin from Monroe, CT writes: "A son of mine, age 25, has a Computer Science
degree BS from Penn State with a GPA of 3.35, and MS in Computer Science from
USC with a GPA of 3.38. He has so far been unable to find a job here in USA. How
can he find a job here, when we have so many H1-B visa immigrants coming here
for relatively low paying jobs in Computer Science. Thanks a lot for your
compassionate advocacy on behalf of H1-B visa, while thousands of American
youngsters, like my son, with a very good education in Computer Science are
languishing with very little hope of finding a job in USA. Some Globalization!"

Ruth from White Plains writes: "As an American with  a Ph.D. in  immunology I
find it ironic that you have changed your mind about the guest worker program
because  of  growing evidence that low-wage immigration hurts America's own poor
and yet you would encourage an increased influx  of biologists and computer
programmers.  Have you asked a biologist or computer scientist just how well
they are doing these days?   We are facing a national crisis in science and
engineering.  Right now we have what amounts to a glut of biological scientists
mostly in the form of immigrants. Many Ph.D.s have found themselves unable to
make a decent living, stuck in successive low-paying post-doctoral positions
years after the completion of their doctorate because there is a logjam at this
level.   The situation has created a stunning sense of entitlement to free labor
on the part of laboratory investigators.  Post-docs are subject to long hours
for minimal pay and abusive behavior by their superiors.  The pathetic wages and
long training period have created a dearth of interest among Americans in these
vital fields.  These same conditions will eventually drive foreign nationals
back to their country of origin.  Who will replace them when they are gone?
Restricting access from abroad has forced salaries and benefits up over the past
few years. Only by making the sciences more lucrative will  more Americans will
step up to the plate and undergo the rigorous training necessary to become the
next generation of scientists and engineers."

Greg from Davis, California writes: "It seems illogical to have any limit at all
on H1-B visas.  The program helps virtually all Americans as well as helping the
immigrants.  If politics forced me to choose between skilled and unskilled
immigrants, then of course I would choose skilled immigrants. But are H1-B visas
really linked to low-skill guest work in that way?  If the real choice is
between helping America's poor and helping Mexico's poor, then I don't see why
Americans have any moral priority.  The poor in Mexico are much poorer, and on
average more than one Mexican worker replaces each American worker.  All that I
will grant is that the American poor vote here and deserve their political fair
share.  But that is different from moral priority."

Khurrum from Bristol writes:  "You are a hypocrite. You go to other countries to
show your 'compassion' without knowing the local realities. But when it comes to
your own country  you want to reduce immigration. How come, from the seventeenth
to the early twentieth century people could come into America without asking the
native americans? Does this have to do with the color of one's skin? The whole
concept of western 'legality' is a hypocrisy."

On balance, I didn't find the emails on low-wage immigration very persuasive;
I'll stick to my guns there. But I did find the emails - and conversations with
various techies - troubling on the subject of the H1-B visa issue. I hadn't
realized how many educated American techies were having trouble finding work
because of people brought in on H1-B's. So maybe I was too quick to suggest
increasing the number of H1-B's, too hasty in asserting that such immigration is
necessarily good for America. I'll have to research that issue more.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2006 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
