
                               1 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 12, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL WEIGHED IN SENATE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11


For the third time in four years the Senate today began debating a comprehensive
bill designed to curtail illegal immigration.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, the sponsor of the bill, which would penalize employers
for hiring illegal aliens, said, ''If the problem of illegal immigration is not
solved, there is a great risk that the American people will turn against legal
immigration and refugees.''

Mr. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is assistant majority leader of the
Senate, said the beneficiaries of his bill would include several million illegal
aliens who now live ''in a fearful subculture.'' Under the bill, illegal aliens
who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1980, and have lived here
continuously since then could qualify for legal status.

The legalization program would start three years after the bill became law.
However, it could begin earlier if a Presidential commission certified that
enforcement of the immigration laws had improved enough to curb illegal
immigration to the United States.

Similar Bills in the Past

The Senate has twice passed similar bills by margins of more than 4 to 1, in
1982 and 1983, and Mr. Simpson said he believed the Senate would approve the
latest version of his bill this week. The bill would make the biggest change in
immigration law in at least two decades.

The House of Representatives passed a different version of the legislation last
year, and the House Judiciary Committee is again working on a bill, sponsored
this year by Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the
committee chairman.

In the Senate, there is strong support for a new provision that would make it
easier for farmers to bring aliens into this country as temporary workers for up
to nine months at a time. Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California, the
chief proponent of this pogram, said it would provide visas for 200,000 to
300,000 aliens, mostly Mexicans, each year.

Senator Steven D. Symms, Republican of Idaho, said that without this amendment
the Simpson bill would be ''absolutely devastating to the fresh fruit and
vegetable industry,'' especially farmers who have depended on illegal aliens to
harvest crops.

Twenty-eight Republican and 11 Democrat senators have signed a letter supporting
a new temporary worker program of the type proposed by Mr. Wilson. Senator Phil
Gramm, Republican of Texas, said the program was a ''safety valve'' that would
provide foreign workers to the fruit and vegetable industry when the Attorney
General determined there were not enough domestic workers available.

Temporary Worker Program

Senator Simpson joined several liberal Democrats in opposing a large new
temporary worker program. They argued that it was antithetical to the basic
objectives of the immigration bill.

Under the bill, an employer would be subject to a civil penalty of $100 to
$2,000 for each illegal alien that he hired. If there was a ''pattern or
practice'' of violations the employer would be subject to a civil penalty of
$3,000 to $10,000 for each illegal alien hired.

Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, said he was worried about possible
effects the Simpson bill could have on the economy of Mexico. He noted that
Mexicans illegally present in the United States sent substantial amounts of
money back home. ''If we aggravate the economic situation that Mexico faces'' by
abruptly cutting off these remittances, he said, ''we could have some very
serious problems south of the border.''

Mr. Simpson insisted that ''the first duty of a sovereign nation is to control
its border,'' adding, ''That must be done unilaterally.''

Although there is no authoritative count of illegal aliens, Mr. Simpson said the
influx of illegal migrants ''appears to have been substantially higher in recent
years.'' He said it was urgent for Congress to pass an immigration bill because
American wages and working conditions were far superior to those in many
countries and would continue attracting people from around the world, including
many who lacked the necessary documents. ''U.S. wages are often 10 to 15 times
as high'' as wages in other countries, he said.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he had ''serious
reservations'' about the Simpson bill in its present form. By deferring the
legalization of illegal aliens for up to three years, he said, the bill takes
''an unnecessary and regrettable step backward'' from measures previously
adopted by the Senate and the House.

In addition, Mr. Kennedy said the bill was being debated ''in a kind of
vacuum,'' without enough emphasis on the international cooperation required to
control migration to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 30, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL WORKERS AS DOMESTICS: UNEASY ALLIANCE

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 6; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1810 words


BY late morning the Pavillion Agency on East 40th Street is crowded with women
seeking positions as nannies, housekeepers and live-in companions. Waiting,
filling out forms, they confer quietly in the accents of such places as Jamaica,
Guyana and Trinidad. Many of the women are in the United States on visitors'
visas that explicitly forbid them to work. But the employment agency has no
trouble placing them, for housekeepers are in short supply and, under Federal
law, placing or employing an illegal worker carries no penalty.

The situation for the housekeeper is precarious. It is balanced, experts say,
only by the laxity of immigration law enforcement. Few if any of the thousands
of housekeepers thought to be working in this country without ''green cards,''
which permit employment, have been threatened with deportation, though officials
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say that all could be deported.
Officials are ''turning their faces the other way,'' said Sidney Elfman, a
Manhattan immigration lawyer. ''It's a humane policy,'' he added.  Still,
employers, employees and labor experts all voice misgivings about the ''gray
market'' in household service, saying that it encourages exploitation on both
sides. ''There's a semi-underground economy in this area,'' said Charles Smith,
associate editor of Interpreter Releases, an immigration law newsletter.

Those who want to make it a crime to hire illegal workers say this would cut
down abuse. Their opponents argue, however, that such amendments would upset
what is at best a delicate balance.

''Most people are in the situation of not wanting to hire someone illegal, but
the pool is very small,'' said a Long Island woman who asked that her name not
be used. The woman, a doctor with two children, said that an immigration bill
clamping down on employers ''would be devastating.''

''If you need somebody, you need somebody,'' said a mother in New Jersey. ''And
you're not going to find someone who's an American citizen.''

For some families live-in help is a luxury that allows parents - usually mothers
- to free themselves from household duties. But many of the parents interviewed,
who generally requested anonymity, said that to pursue their jobs they depend on
available, affordable housekeepers.

''I own my own business, and lately I haven't been doing much business,'' said
the New Jersey woman, who has had difficulty finding a housekeeper to care for
her three children. At least 75 percent of the applicants who responded to her
advertisement did not have green cards, she said.

Labor experts say the shortage of live-in household workers has occurred partly
because the number of working mothers has grown and partly because women who
once were forced to take housekeeping jobs are finding other employment.

''What we're going through now is a continuing trend of middle- and
upper-middle-class women entering the work force at the very time that fewer
American women are going into domestic work because it's the only thing
available,'' said Marion Houstoun, an immigration staff specialist with the
Labor Department's Bureau of International Labor Affairs. ''Today,'' she said,
''poorly educated women have more options that are not domestic work.'' This is
a result of the civil rights movement and other social changes over the last two
decades, she said.

Among immigrants, too, household work and child care tend to be occupations of
last resort, Mrs. Houstoun said. ''They are getting out of this as fast as they
can,'' she said. She added that many move into factories, where employment is
more stable.

The unpopularity of household jobs makes employers unhappy as well. ''The
circumstances are crummy,'' said a mother on Long Island. ''You're entrusting
your family with someone who is not a family member. But you know that their
last option is housekeeping.''

Many parents said the underground nature of the domestic service market has made
even basic employment practices, such as insisting on verifiable references,
impossible. ''The references could turn out to be their mother or their
sister,'' said a teacher in Brooklyn who is seeking a housekeeper for her six
children.

Some employers said they might hire applicants who speak little or no English. A
Long Island woman said she had hired her current housekeeper, who speaks only
Polish, because ''she came with excellent references.'' But she added: ''I can't
leave my child alone with her. God forbid there was an emergency - she wouldn't
know what to do.''

Because so many household workers are hired ''off the books'' - with wages paid
in cash, tax-free - accurate estimates of the work force are impossible,
according to Luda Murphy, a labor economist with the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

The Census Bureau counted 993,000 private household workers in 1984, down from
1.2 million in 1974. ''Even though the demand is there, employment has been
declining because most people don't want to do that kind of work,'' Mrs. Murphy
said.

Labor experts and demographers say they have no idea how many household workers
are illegal. ''All we know is that it's a problem of large proportions,'' Mrs.
Murphy said.

Illegal workers, experts say, are most common in urban centers such as New York,
Los Angeles and Washington. They are most likely to be in live-in jobs, which,
Mrs. Houstoun said, are ''common entry positions.''

Many argue that the prevalence of illegal workers in housekeeping jobs is a
result of substandard wages; most starting salaries for housekeepers are
advertised at $100 to $150 a week plus room and board. ''What we will pay our
housekeeper is substantially less that what we would pay an American,'' said
Mary Kay Hill, a spokesman for Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
who advocates sweeping changes in the immigration laws. ''That translates into
exploitation,'' she said.

Others argue, however, that native Americans have been culturally conditioned to
spurn these kinds of jobs, and that only impossibly high wages could entice
them. ''There are negative symbols attached to domestic service,'' said Warren
Leiden, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
''It's very unpopular among Americans.''

For many women who want to become permanent residents of the United States and
have no immediate relatives in this country, finding a housekeeping job with a
family willing to act as sponsor is one of the few avenues open. Thus, despite
the low wages, many employers and employees say that illegal workers can gain
from the present arrangement. Employment agencies commonly use sponsorship as a
draw, holding out the promise of residence by listing positions as ''sponsored
jobs.''

''I'm not personally too keen on the idea that American women get to rise on the
backs of third-world women, but it can also be an extremely productive
relationship,'' Mrs. Houstoun said. ''I know that there's exploitation, but
there are also cases where the family sponsors not only the housekeeper but all
her children.''

To be a sponsor, an employer petitions the Government to grant permanent status
to a worker - a process that takes at least two years. There are risks, though
for employers they are minor; if the process is not completed, they lose any
money they have spent on legal fees.

For employees, for whom sponsorship is more urgent, the necessity of a long-term
commitment can bring added vulnerability. ''A lot of people are just looking for
someone to exploit,'' said a woman from Guyana who was visiting the
International Domestic Agency in Manhattan searching for a sponsored job.

''If you're the type that's scared, they're going to use you,'' said a woman
from St. Vincent who has worked as a live-in housekeeper. Because she already
has a green card, she said, she will accept no more live-in positions.

Some sponsors acknowledge that they hire workers before the sponsorship process
is complete and they obtain green cards. ''I guess everyone cons themselves into
thinking it's legal,'' said one Long Island woman who has been a sponsor.

Many employers interviewed, however, said they believed it was legal for illegal
workers to be employed if they had started applying for legal status. That is
not true. ''If you work under a visitor's visa, you are subject to
deportation,'' said Duke Austin, speaking for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

For a housekeeper to be legally employed, sponsorship is supposed to start years
before employment actually begins. ''But what employers in their right minds are
going to sponsor someone and hope that this person is going to work for them
three years down the road?'' said Glen Scott, an owner of the Pavillion Agency.

Generally, employers who sponsor housekeepers do so while they are already
working - illegally. Often, the laborious process is abandoned. ''Only 1 in 10
ever works out,'' said Mary Kritz, associate director of population sciences at
the Rockefeller Foundation.

An immigration bill is likely to affect sponsorship, experts say, by penalizing
employers who hire illegal workers. Many proposals would exempt people who have
three or fewer employees, and immigration officials say that private households
are unlikely to be targets of enforcement.

Enforcement officers are ''not going to go knocking on doors arresting maids,''
said Verne Jervis of the Immigration Service. But, he said, ''people obey an
awful lot of laws'' even when punishment is unlikely.

However, many employers said that applicants for housekeeping jobs are so scarce
that they would break the law if necessary. ''I tend not to do things that are
illegal,'' said a doctor in Washington who has two children. ''But there just
aren't enough legal workers in the field.''

Employment services are likely to be hit hardest by new immigration laws,
experts say. ''I suspect we would have at least some focus on them,'' Mr. Jervis
said.

''We could have big trouble,'' said Mr. Scott of the Pavillion Agency. ''I won't
be able to do business.'' Employment agents warn that the pool of workers would
shrink and wages would rise substantially.

The prospects for passage of legislation are uncertain. Some experts say that
pressure for change has been building and that, with no Congressional elections
this year, a bill is likely. Others note that proposals to change the laws have
been intensely debated for almost a decade and their supporters may be running
out of steam. ''This is the third Congress this has gone through,'' said Mr.
Smith of Interpreter Releases. ''How many more times can you try this?''

Illegal workers seem doubtful that change is imminent. ''A lot of people make a
lot of noise,'' said the woman from Guyana. ''But let's face it: Americans
aren't going to do this work. There's a reason why this is the only legal way to
become a resident.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 2, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Guest-Worker Solution to Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 548 words


To the Editor:

Representative James H. Scheuer's Op-Ed piece on illegal-immigration control
(''Let's Firm Up the Borders,'' June 14), in support of the new Simpson bill in
Congress, illustrates the humane-values dilemma that faces all the interests
involved in immigration. Yet some facts from recent studies, and an alternative
approach, can help resolve some of the difficulties.

Mr. Scheuer speaks of ''the estimated 6 million to 12 million undocumented
aliens already here.'' But hardly any scholars nowadays claim more than 5 or 6
million. On the other hand, regarding current inflows, Mr. Scheuer refers only
to 1.5 million surreptitious border crossers (gross numbers), completely
omitting the many legal ''visitors'' who simply overstay their permits.

The overstayers are much harder to control than the border-crossers. But even
for the borders, Mr. Scheuer's suggestions are too weak: chiefly, to concentrate
patrols at ''a handful of urban border crossings'' (leaving other entry points
unblocked!) and to expand ''new surveillance techniques'' (most of which have
been in use at least 10 years!). Border crossings often have a ''human wave''
character that overflows the Immigration and Naturalization Service patrols. And
Mr. Scheuer will not recommend a Berlin Wall.

Representative Scheuer also proposes to ''increase the quota for legal Mexican
immigration'' and ''broaden the program of suspending deportations of illegal
aliens who have roots and equity.'' Mr. Scheuer must either go for very large
increases - in effect giving up on entry limitations - or he must stop at not
much more than an expansive gesture.

The big issue underlying this discussion of control techniques is the stated
fear of a ''negative impact on our nation's economy, labor market, educational
system and health programs.'' Some of the fear of harm to the economy is
probably misdirected. Some is surely exaggerated, since most illegal entrants
are young adults who have no children to burden the schools and hospitals. As
for the impact of aliens on American workers, we have found that aliens are
largely a noncompeting group, who fill vacancies in low-level jobs that most
Americans reject or, if constrained to by unemployment, do briefly and poorly.

A quite alternative approach is the guest-worker or temporary foreign worker
(T.F.W.) program. Expanding from the existing H-2 program, it would bring in
substantial numbers of T.F.W.'s, sufficient to fill in legally the job
vacancies, urban as well as rural, that attract the immigrants. These T.F.W.'s,
admitted for stays of one or two years, without dependents who would put down
roots, and supervised to maintain American labor standards, could be controlled
and variable in numbers.

Home visits at intervals would be encouraged. The final return home at end of
term would be assured by such devices as withholding part of the pay of
guest-workers until they leave this country, and by cooperating with their home
government to insure rotating flows. This method - so long as we have such
low-level jobs - is the least brutal and most effective way to control illegal
immigration.

EDWIN P. REUBENS

New York, June 16, 1985 The writer is an emeritus professor of economics at the
City College of New York, City University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 29, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Bill Pits Unions Against Workers

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 287 words


To the Editor:

Your support for Mayor Koch's directive that New York City employees not turn in
undocumented aliens is to be commended (''The Immigration Mess,'' editorial Oct.
22). The fear of detection by the Immigration and Naturalization Service causes
many such aliens to avoid seeking a remedy for crimes committed against them or
to delay seeking treatment for injury or disease. This fear is partly relieved
by orders such as Mayor Koch's.

However, your support at the same time for provisions of the
Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli immigration bill that would penalize employers for hiring
undocumented workers contradicts the goal of insuring that people in this
country are protected from exploitation regardless of immigration status.

Not only does the bill do nothing to change existing law and give undocumented
workers meaningful remedies for unfair labor practices by their employers, but
also its employer sanctions would be used by employers to argue that such
workers are not even ''employees'' under labor relations law. They could
consequently be denied the right to vote in union elections and to gain the
protection that a union could provide.

Moreover, under Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli, unions would be required to confirm a
worker's immigration status before referring him or her to a job. Thus,
undocumented workers would be discouraged from relying on the assistance of
unions in their dealings with employers. Just as public policy concerns support
Mayor Koch's order, so no union should be required to enforce immigration law.
To do so conflicts with the basic mission of unions - to assist all workers,
regardless of their race, sex, age or national origin. ROBERT H. GIBBS Seattle,
Oct. 23, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS DON'T TAKE JOBS AWAY

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 407 words


To the Editor:

I strongly disagree with several points and implications in ''The Simpson-Nobody
Bill,'' and with your support of immigration reform along the bill's lines.

The substantial difference between the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, which died last
year, and the new bill is that the new one does not include immediate amnesty
for the long-time illegal workers in the country. It maintains, however,
economic sanctions to employers who willingly hire illegals. These sanctions,
you say, are the ultimate test of immigration reform. I believe that economic
sanctions will not drastically reduce the hiring of illegal labor, but worsen
working conditions for the illegals and even increase unemployment of U.S.
labor. As long as enforcement is imperfect, so that the probability of being
caught employing illegals is less than 100 percent, employers will take the risk
and pass on some or all of the cost of the potential sanctions to the illegal
workers themselves.

Why would the employer take any risk? Because to attract U.S. workers to these
jobs the employer would have to pay wages that exceed those paid to illegals.
The result will be lower wages for illegal workers and thus a greater
disadvantage to U.S. workers competing for the same jobs.

Eliminating the amnesty provision in the new Simpson bill renders it politically
and morally unacceptable. Studies based on the 1980 United States census put the
number of illegal workers in this country at a minimum of two million (with a
likely maximum of about three million). Under the proposed reform these people
would not only continue to be deportable, but would actually have to be
deported.

Just think what would happen if Mexico were suddenly required to absorb half a
million unemployed workers coming back from the United States. The destabilizing
effects in Mexico, and the possible political retaliation of the Mexican
Government are clearly not in the interest of the U.S. Lastly, it would mean
total disruption of the lives of half a million individuals who would be sent to
extreme poverty.

There is no way to halt international migration; this is the result of growing
economic inequality among countries. Long-term migrants have to be granted
regularized status because massive deportation is economically, politically and
morally unacceptable. JORGE O. MARISCAL New York, May 28, 1985 The writer is
working on a doctoral dissertation about illegal migration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 14, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ADMINISTRATION REPORTED SET TO BACK NEW IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13


The Reagan Administration plans to support a new immigration bill that would
delay amnesty for illegal aliens until a Presidential commission certified that
the United States had better control of its borders.

The bill was introduced three weeks ago by the Senate majority whip, Alan K.
Simpson, and Administration officials will testify when Congressional hearings
begin on it Monday.

In draft testimony submitted to the White House for clearance, Attorney General
Edwin Meese 3d and Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, strongly support the new bill. Mr. Nelson says the ''deferred
legalization'' is actually better than the approach taken in earlier versions of
the bill sponsored by Mr. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican, and passed by the
Senate.

The new bill contains the same two main provisions as the earlier legislation:
monetary penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens and the amnesty, which
offers legal status to those who arrived in this country before Jan. 1, 1980,
and have lived in the United States continuously in an unlawful status since
then. Under previous versions of the bill, the employer sanctions and the
amnesty would have taken effect simultaneously.

'Represents a Better Balance'

Mr. Simpson's new bill would postpone the amnesty until the Federal Government
had regained control of the nation's borders by establishing effective programs
to curtail the entry and employment of illegal aliens. The bill does not specify
the amnesty date, and some critics of the bill, including Hispanic groups, doubt
whether the criteria would ever be met.

In his statement, Commissioner Nelson says: ''This Administration favors the
concept of legalization. We repeat that support today.'' But he said the
deferred legalization program now proposed by Senator Simpson ''represents a
better balance with enforcement and avoids some of the serious cost issues in a
time of needed deficit reduction.''

State and local officials have demanded that the Federal Government help them
pay for medical care and other social welfare benefits that might be provided to
illegal aliens who obtained legal status.

The Administration also supports a provision of the new Simpson bill that makes
it optional for employers to verify the identity and citizenship of job
applicants. ''You have appropriately removed the penalty for simple failure to
keep records,'' Mr. Nelson plans to tell the Senator, who is chairman of the
Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration.

Strong Incentive Provided

However, Mr. Nelson says he hopes all employers would ask job applicants for
identification documents to check whether they are United States citizens or
aliens authorized to work in the United States. Mr. Simpson's bill would give
employers a strong incentive to do that. If they did not follow the verification
procedures, there would be a legal presumption that they had knowingly hired any
illegal alien who might later be found working for them. The draft bill provides
that if an alien had presented an employer fake documents, the employer would
generally not be penalized.

The penalties provided for in the bill against an employer range from $100 for
each illegal alien hired on a first offense to a maximum of $10,000 for a
''pattern or practice'' of violations.

Although the Administration is prepared to support the Simpson bill, Mr. Meese
has, according to an aide, expressed ''personal discomfort'' with this provision
on verification, which he sees as tantamount to a ''presumption of guilt.''

The Agriculture Department has strenuously objected to a portion of Mr. Nelson's
draft testimony in which he opposes a special transition program allowing
farmers to continue employing illegal aliens for three years after passage of
the Simpson bill. The Agriculture Department says Western growers of fruit and
vegetables need the special program because they have historically depended on
illegal alien labor.

Mr. Nelson maintains that the transition program is ''unnecessary'' because of
other provisions in the bill that would make it easier for farmers to bring
temporary foreign workers into this country.

Senate Passed Earlier Bill

The Senate passed an earlier Simpson bill in August 1982 by a vote of 80 to 19,
and it passed a similar bill in May 1983 by a margin of 76 to 18. The House
passed its version of the legislation, 216 to 211, in June last year, but
efforts to resolve differences with the Senate broke down in October after four
weeks of work by a conference committee.

The House bill was sponsored by Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky. So far he has not reintroduced the bill, and he has declined to state
his plans. In a memorandum to the Attorney General in May, Mr. Nelson laid out a
timetable to achieve passage of a bill in both houses of Congress by Nov. 14 of
this year. The schedule showed ''introduction of House bill by Mazzoli'' on July
10.

In other testimony prepared for the hearing Monday, Ralph B. Evans, speaking for
the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, endorses the new Simpson bill
while noting that the chamber has been ''a long-time opponent of previous
immigration reform bills.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 10, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TOP FREE 33 AFGHANS WHO ENTERED ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 465 words


Thirty-three Afghan refugees detained here for up to 18 months for entering the
country illegally are to be released today under an agreement reached by Federal
immigration officials, legislators and lawyers representing the detainees.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is to free the refugees from a
Federal detention center at 201 Varick Street beginning at 9:30 A.M. They will
be released on parole pending the outcome of efforts to allow them to remain
permanently in the United States.

The agreement to release the detainees was reached yesterday after Senator
Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan
and Representative Gary Ackerman, New York Democrats, met with immigration
officials at the detention center.

Lawmakers Praise Decision

Later, the legislators praised the immigration agency's decision to release the
detainees. ''This is much more in keeping with what this nation is all about,''
Senator D'Amato said.

Mr. Ackerman said the 33 were ''bona fide refugees'' who deserved sanctuary in
the United States because they could not return to their Soviet-occupied
homeland.

He said that they were ''people who came here for the same reason our
grandparents came,'' except that the Afghans were ''thrown into a cage and
incarcerated.''

Immigration officials said the Afghans had been detained because they entered
the United States illegally, mostly with bogus passports, not because of any
question about their refugee status.

Upholding the Law

Charles C. Sava, the immigration service's district director for New York,
hailed the decision because it released the prisoners but continued ''to uphold
and enforce the law.''

In exchange for the detainees' release, the Lawyers Committee for International
Rights, which had been challenging their incarceration, agreed to drop its suit.

''I don't things there's much chance that they need ever worry about deportation
again,'' said Arthur C. Helton, a lawyer who headed the effort in the refugees'
behalf.

Under the immigration agency's agreement with the lawyers' group, the Afghans
can live and work in this country while they apply for political asylum and can
enjoy all Government benefits, including Social Security.

Two Groups of Refugees

According to Mr. Helton, the refugees fall into two categories.

Some of them had applied for political asylum and were rejected. The others are
in the process of applying for asylum.

The first group can appeal its rejection, Mr. Helton said.

Most of the Afghans are men in their 20's. Some of them have been in the
detention house for a year and a half.

Originally, the immigration service insisted that the 33 leave the country and
legally seek re-entry from another nation. That demand was dropped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 14, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

LET'S FIRM UP THE BORDERS

BYLINE: By James H. Scheuer; James H. Scheuer is Democratic Representative from
New York

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As Congress again prepares to debate the immigration reform bill, the issue of
amnesty for illegal aliens residing in this country will be a bone of
contention.

This year's bill, introduced by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
contains an important new provision that should quell some opposition to
legalizing the status of many immigrants who have lived in the United States for
years.

Rather than grant blanket amnesty to all illegal aliens living in the United
States prior to a designated date, the new provision would delay amnesty until a
Presidential commission certified that our borders were substantially secure.
The Simpson measure also provides for effective sanctions against employers of
illegal aliens.

Unless we can firm up our borders before amnesty is declared, the lure of legal
status will accelerate dramatically the steady stream of illegal aliens already
crashing through our borders.

Without the latest proposal, smugglers who bring illegals across the borders
will do a booming business and counterfeiters will prosper as they manufacture
false documents -driver's licenses, birth certificates, rent receipts, Social
Security cards -to ''prove'' eligibility for legal status under the amnesty
provision.

Our nation is beset by record numbers of illegal aliens. Approximately 1.5
million undocumented aliens enter each year, adding to the estimated six million
to 12 million undocumented aliens already here.

The prospects of a better life, politi-cal and personal freedom and enhanced
employment opportunities are some of the powerful incentives that ''pull''
millions across our borders. Equally strong forces - soaring unemployment,
poverty, hunger, harsh military dictatorships -''push'' the aliens out of their
homelands.

Unless we correct this problem, the explosion of aliens who will seek amnesty in
the ''land of opportunity'' after the law takes effect will have a negative
impact on our nation's economy, labor market, educational system and health
programs.

The obvious way to stop ''gate crashers'' is to increase the law enforcement
force at the borders. There are more than twice as many police officers assigned
to protect the 209-acre United States Capitol complex than there are agents
guarding our 1,933-mile border with Mexico.

In addition, we should take these steps to improve border control:

* Tighten security at a handful of urban border crossings (San Diego, Calif.; El
Paso, McAllen and Brownsville, Tex.; Yuma, Ariz.) and at a few trails through
rough mountain and desert terrain, where, taken together, roughly 50 percent of
illegal aliens gain entry.

* Train and equip border personnel to be able to spot counterfeit documents.

* Step up investigations of alien-smuggling rings to put pressure on the
kingpins who run the operations.

* Increase the use of new surveillance techniques - sensitive stethoscopes to
detect heartbeats in truck compartments and car trunks, infra-red night scopes,
ground and aerial sensors.

* Erect barriers to make entry more difficult.

* Increase the quota for legal Mexican immigration from 20,000 annually to
40,000 or even 60,000 (a small increase considering the million-plus figures on
illegal entry) and broaden the program of suspending deportation of illegal
aliens who have roots and equity, including children, homes and businesses, in
this country.

Leonel J. Castillo, a former Immigration and Naturalization Service
commissioner, suggests that we ease the requirements for Mexicans to become
legal immigrants.

Even the tightest border security will let some aliens slip through, but we can
stop most of those who attempt to shortcut our policy on legal immigration.

The sponsors of immigration reform do not support draconian measures to seal our
borders hermetically.

The United States does not need or want a Berlin Wall. But we must regain
control of our borders and end the de facto policy of ''open borders'' that
rewards those who break the law while penalizing those who play by the rules and
wait years to obtain legal status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 10, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MEESE ADVOCATES NEW ALIENS CODE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 889 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9


Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d urged Congress today to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws, but strongly objected to key features of a bill proposed by
Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Meese said that he and President Reagan were ''committed to comprehensive
immigration reform,'' including penalties against employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens.

But Mr. Meese criticized the Rodino bill on the ground that it was too generous
in offering legal status to illegal aliens who are already in the United States.

The measure would authorize the Attorney General to offer legal status to
illegal aliens who entered this country before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here
continuously ''in an unlawful status'' since that time.

Mr. Meese said the cutoff date should be pushed back to Jan. 1, 1980, to assure
that the legalization program was open only to aliens who had set down ''roots''
in this country.

Eligibility Date at Issue

The 1982 eligibility date, he said, would be ''unfair to those persons who have
respected the legal immigration system'' and ''would serve to attract even more
illegal migrants.''

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said that
''persons with more than five to six years of illegal residence in the United
States would appear to have demonstrated the type of commitment'' to this
country needed to qualify for legal resident status. After another five years as
legal permanent residents, the aliens could apply for United States citizenship.

Mr. Meese and Mr. Nelson testified before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration, headed by Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky.
Mr. Mazzoli is a co-sponsor of the bill introduced by Mr. Rodino, a New Jersey
Democrat.

Comprehensive legislation to curb the influx of illegal aliens has been passed
twice by the Senate and once by the House of Representatives since 1982, but the
bills ultimately died in Congress. In July, the Senate Judiciary Committee
approved another version of the legislation, which includes the 1980 eligibility
date for illegal aliens seeking legal status. That bill, sponsored by Senator
Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, may come to the Senate floor for a vote
this month, aides to Mr. Simpson said.

Attorney General Meese also criticized provisions of the Rodino bill that would
establish a special office in the Justice Department to investigate complaints
of employment discrimination against legal aliens and refugees. Hispanic groups
warn that such discrimination might increase because of the bill's ban on hiring
illegal aliens.

Rodino Bill Criticized

''We endorse the spirit of those provisions, but not the specific mechanisms,''
Mr. Meese said. ''We see them as unnecessary and undesirable.'' Further, he
said, ''we feel that the present law is adequate'' to protect the rights of
legal aliens and that a ''new bureaucracy'' is not needed. He said this element
of the Rodino bill, if approved by Congress, might lead to a Presidential veto.

Mr. Rodino contends that the new civil rights protections are needed because
otherwise aliens might have difficulty finding work after they had been legally
admitted to this country.

Mr. Meese said the Administration would also insist that any immigration bill
include provisions making it easier for farmers to bring in aliens as legal
temporary workers, to offset the expected loss of illegal alien labor.

''Permanent and temporary guest worker programs are necessary,'' Mr. Meese said,
for both economic and political reasons. On this issue, he said, the
Administration is trying to negotiate a compromise acceptable to farm worker
unions and to fruit and vegetable growers who have depended on illegal aliens to
pick crops.

Several members of the House Judiciary Committee said that if the Administration
wanted to see an immigration bill passed in the next 16 months, President Reagan
must speak out publicly and lobby for the legislation.

Focus on Public Opinion

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, wanted to know what Mr.
Reagan would do to ''focus and galvanize public opinion.'' Mr. Nelson said Mr.
Reagan had issued eight statements supporting the bill since 1981. Mr. Meese
said he would urge Mr. Reagan to speak out again ''at the appropriate time.''

Mr. Mazzoli said that ''with tax reform and other issues swirling around on
Capitol Hill, there is a possibility that immigration could get lost in the
static.'' Several Democrats said that Mr. Rodino might push the bill more
forcefully if the White House shared political responsibility by taking steps to
dramatize Mr. Reagan's support for the measure.

Mr. Meese said the Administration would be flexible in negotiating details of
the immigration bill. But he cautioned that Mr. Reagan might veto the measure if
it would allow ''an uncapped, virtually inexhaustible flow of Federal funds to
state and local governments,'' to help finance health, education and welfare
benefits for aliens gaining legal status.

The Administration originally wanted to limit such aid to $600 million a year,
but agreed to $1 billion a year in negotiations last October. Lawmakers from
states with large numbers of illegal aliens argued that $1 billion was not
enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 12, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

'Organizational Schizophrenia in the I.N.S.'

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 670 words


To the Editor:

Your Oct. 22 editorial ''The Immigration Mess (Both of Them)'' and your
front-page story on Federal assertions that lawyers are aiding immigration fraud
(Oct. 21) need the addition of a chapter on the seeming failure of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to deal with the well-ripened fruits of
illegal immigration. I suggest it be titled ''Organizational Schizophrenia in
the I.N.S.''

The incredibly mixed signals I.N.S. receives from Congress, the Administration
and its internal hierarchy (both past and present), has resulted in an agency
with a classic split personality, in an identity crisis.

I.N.S. is still reeling from a succession of Presidentially appointed
commissioners of diverse backgrounds. The message these appointments sent to the
agency, to Congress and to the public was worse than unclear, and the effects
are still with us.

The Senate, for all its positive efforts to struggle with illegal immigration,
has, in succeeding sessions, passed sanctions provisions to assist I.N.S. in
dealing with unscrupulous employers of illegal aliens. Simultaneously, however,
the Senate, by approval and adoption of the McClure open-fields amendment, would
create an absurd inconsistency with those sanctions provisions by imposing an
open-field search warrant requirement on I.N.S. agents.

The courts are not without their input in warping the I.N.S.'s personality.
Indeed, we must live with the scars of judicial decrees that under the guise of
due process have frustrated the ability of the I.N.S. to effect the removal of
countless Haitian boat people from this country.

Finally, is it any wonder that this agency and its clients fall prey to schemes
and schemers to abuse the system? Some insist there are increasing numbers of
dishonest lawyers engaged in the immigration business. It is my feeling,
instead, that there are increasing opportunities for abuse created by our
unwillingness to simplify our processes.

We somehow attempt to convince ourselves and others of the complexity of our
work. At the highest levels we proclaim that I.N.S. laws and regulations are at
least as complex as the revenue laws. We perpetuate this by insisting that one
must hire a lawyer to pursue an entitlement benefit, no matter how simple or pro
forma the administrative process. In so doing, we drive the legal or illegal
alien, who often is at a tremendous cultural and language disadvantage, to
unscrupulous persons (waiting under the umbrella of I.N.S. blessing) for
assistance.

There is little argument that some issues and cases before I.N.S. are complex
and should be handled accordingly. However, the vast majority of I.N.S. fraud
involving lawyer culpability flows from I.N.S. administrative proceedings not
requiring legal representation. This agency is chartered by Congress to provide
benefits to people, regardless of whether they are represented and without
regard to their ability to pay for such representation. Notwithstanding, we send
mixed signals.

While we will not provide counsel to persons filing for benefits, we advise them
that they may be represented by a lawyer or a nonlawyer representative
specifically approved by the Board of Immigration Appeals, though that nonlawyer
representation is generally unavailable or limited to inexperienced personnel.
Ironically, I.N.S. will not allow unrestricted representation (as does the
Internal Revenue Service) by any other nonattorney, regardless of the
individual's qualifications. This shortsighted, narrow thinking sanctions and
encourages representative fraud.

In summary, I.N.S. must cease functioning as a multiple personality to
accommodate the shortcomings of each of the branches of government. It is time
I.N.S. reassessed its role in government as an executive branch agency and shed
its dual personality to perform that role effective-ly. WILLIAM H. TRUESDALE JR.
Getzville, N.Y., Oct. 30, 1985 The writer was deputy district director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, Buffalo District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 27, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION ABUSES ALLEGED

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26


High-ranking officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service interfered
with investigations into alleged corruption by agents, according to a Justice
Department report made public by immigration agency officials today.

Although the report said ''substantial strides'' have been made since 1980 in
investigating such allegations, it asserted: ''Serious institutional obstacles
to vigorous pursuit of these and other allegations have been raised. Some of
this interference has come from I.N.S. upper management.''

Among the concerns cited in the report were allegations that high-ranking
immigration officials might have participated in covering up smuggling
activities and falsifying employment records. The report did not identify any
agents who might have been involved in these activities.

The allegations of corruption most frequently cited in the report involved
contentions that agents accepted bribes for helping illegal aliens cross
borders.

Few Safeguards Against Abuse

These border agents often perform their duties ''with little supervisory
oversight,'' the report said. ''There are few internal controls and safeguards
in the process to guard against the potential for abuse,'' it contended.

''The immigrants these employees deal with daily, many of whom come from
countries where the practice of giving gratuities to Government officials for
official acts is accepted, are intensely interested in entering this country and
in staying, once admitted,'' it said.

''When the complexity of the immigration laws and the large backlog of pending
I.N.S. matters are added to the mix,'' the report said, ''situations highly
susceptible to corruption result.''

Vern Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration office, said the agency would have
no comment on the report.

The report was prepared by the Office of Professional Responsibility, a Justice
Department ethics unit, and was delivered recently to William French Smith, the
Attorney General, who was succeeded Monday by Edwin Meese 3d.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE GETS NEW VERSION OF IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23


Senator Alan K. Simpson today introduced a new version of his comprehensive
immigration bill that would delay the granting of legal status to illegal aliens
until after the United States had better control of its borders.

It was the third time in four years that Senator Simpson, a Wyoming Republican,
had introduced a bill to overhaul the nation's immigration laws and curtail the
influx of illegal aliens.

There was, however, no sponsor for the new bill in the House. Representative
Romano L. Mazzoli, the Kentucky Democrat who has led the campaign for the bill
in the House, did not attend Senator Simpson's news conference today and was
silent on his intentions.

The new Simpson bill differs in several major respects from the legislation
passed twice by the Senate and once by the House. Under earlier versions of the
bill, amnesty for illegal aliens would have taken effect about the same time as
penalties for employers who hired illegal aliens.

Amnesty Provision Is Modified

The new bill would not offer legal status to illegal aliens until a Presidential
commission certified that the employer penalties were reducing the illegal entry
of aliens into the United States and the employment of illegal aliens. It was
not clear how the commission could make such a determination because the
Government has no reliable way of counting illegal aliens.

Mr. Simpson said he thought the legalization program could start ''within a
year'' after the bill was passed. But he said it was necessary to make the
program contingent on improved enforcement because otherwise it ''would cause a
tremendous stimulus to further illegal entry'' by aliens.

Many conservatives have criticized the amnesty proposal on the ground that it
would reward lawbreakers. Senator Simpson said he wanted to ''assure the
American public that legalization will not cause'' additional flows of illegal
aliens.

Passage of the bill appears likely in the Senate, which approved earlier
versions of the legislation, in 1982 and 1983, by margins of more than 4 to 1.
But the outlook is uncertain in the House, which approved the measure by a vote
of 216 to 211 last June.

The Simpson bill would prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens. An
employer convicted on a first offense of hiring illegal aliens would be subject
to civil penalties ranging from $100 to $2,000 for each illegal alien. The
maximum penalty on employers for a ''pattern or practice'' of violations would
be $10,000 for each illegal alien.

Concession to Business Groups

In an apparent concession to business groups, Mr. Simpson reduced the paperwork
and record-keeping requirements for employers. Under earlier versions of the
bill, employers would have had to ask all job applicants for identification
documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens authorized to work in the
United States.

The Chamber of Commerce of the United States, which opposed earlier versions of
the bill as burdensome to employers, endorsed the new bill.

Mr. Simpson said the bill did not address the question of employment
discrimination against aliens legally in the United States. That was one of the
most difficult issues in negotiations over the bill last year. Hispanic groups
and some members of Congress argued then that new penalties for hiring illegal
aliens would inevitably lead to an increase in employment discrimination against
legal aliens.

Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d welcomed the new Simpson bill. But Wade J.
Henderson, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union,
criticized it as ''an unfortunate compilation of some of the worst elements of
the original Simpson-Mazzoli bill.''

Joseph M. Trevino of the League of United Latin American Citizens and Richard
Fajardo of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund also opposed
the new bill. They said the employer sanctions would probably be ineffective and
that, as a result, Hispanic people would not get the benefit of a legalization
program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 24, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

The Simpson-Nobody Bill

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 668 words


Illegal aliens keep pouring across the border, stirring broad bipartisan
concern. Three years ago, Congress responded by taking up an immigration reform
bill. Simpson-Mazzoli, it was called, personifying the bipartisanship of the
sponsors, Senator Alan Simpson, Wyoming Republican, and Representative Romano
Mazzoli, Kentucky Democrat. The bill sailed through the Senate but failed in the
House for lack of time.

The broad reform consensus kept growing, however, and in 1983 the sponsors
introduced a simpler Simpson-Mazzoli bill. Again it passed the Senate easily.
Then in 1984, in somewhat different form and with great difficulty, it passed
the House. Yet it perished again, in the conference called to reconcile the two
versions.

Yesterday, when Senator Simpson started the process for a third time, there was
a big gap. Though altered in many details and debatable in some, the new bill
remains a worthy, sophisticated vehicle for immigration reform. The problem is
that it is now the Simpson-Nobody bill. The problem persists, even grows, and
the bill is decently bipartisan in content. But not in sponsorship. Where are
the House Democrats?

The ultimate test of any immigration reform can be stated in two words: employer
sanctions. As long as employers can hire illegal aliens with impunity, illegal
aliens will find a way to be hired. Even low wages in this country are
astronomical compared with those south of the border; the migrants stream in to
jobs here like iron filings to a magnet. To turn the tide, turn off the magnet:
make it illegal to hire aliens. That has always been the core of
Simpson-Mazzoli.

In his new proposal, Senator Simpson takes a somewhat different tack, applying
civil rather than criminal penalties to employers. That looks like surrender,
but in truth would probably be just as effective, perhaps even more so. On a
second offense, an employer could be fined $5,000 for each illegal employee. It
wouldn't take long for the Texas contractor employing 400 illegals to punch in
the numbers and read ''$2,000,000'' on his pocket calculator.

The new Simpson bill also alters the other principal provision of reform
legislation: amnesty for illegals who have lived in this country for several
years. No one knows how many, though a million is a defensible guess. Previous
versions would have provided for immediate legalization. Now Senator Simpson
would delay the amnesty until a special legalization commission finds employer
sanctions to be effective.

His argument carries a certain rough justice. Sanctions are to be phased in; so
should amnesty. But it's hard to avoid the impression that this provision is
included to provide bargaining grist; in the absence of any reliable count of
illegals, now or then, how could a commission ever tell that the sanctions are
working?

In any case, the new bill warrants comparison not with the old ones but with the
legislation on the table when the House-Senate conference expired last October.
It makes a bow here to Chairman Rodino of the House Judiciary Committee, a nod
there to the Chamber of Commerce and a concession elsewhere to growers of
perishable fruit. The result is a consensus that warrants being called the
Simpson-Rodino-Wright-Lungren-Schumer-Scheu-er-Panetta-Morrison-Richardson-Mazzo
li-Hesburgh bill.

But it's called no such thing. Depressingly, it's now the Simpson-Nobody bill.
Why? The need for immigration reform is, if anything, greater than ever. So is
the bipartisan consensus for it, even in Congress. Why, then, the diffidence
among House Democrats? Why Mr. Mazzoli judges it wise to absent himself is
something he can answer. Why the House Democratic leadership has again distanced
itself is a matter more important than individual circumstance.

This bill offers a reasonable basis for negotiation, and sound immigration
reform. If the House Democrats wish to be known for favoring something better
than paralysis, the next move is up to them. The country needs a
Simpson-Somebody law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 25, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

LOW NUMBER GIVEN FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24


A panel of the National Academy of Sciences estimated today that there are two
million to four million illegal aliens in the United States, a figure
substantially smaller than previous authoritative estimates.

In addition the panel, after an exhaustive study of immigration statistics, said
the number of illegal aliens had probably not increased sharply in recent years.
Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and of other Federal law
enforcement agencies have said there has been such an increase.

In an appendix to the panel's report Kenneth Hill, a demographer and
statistician who was associate director of the study, said: ''There is no
empirical basis at present for the widespread belief that the illegal alien
population has increased sharply in the late 1970's and early 1980's. The only
data available on recent trends, I.N.S. records of locations of deportable
aliens, in fact suggest that the population has increased little if at all since
1977, although entry attempts may have increased.''

Mr. Hill added, ''The size and growth of the illegal alien population may not be
problems of the magnitude sometimes suggested, although any substantial number
of illegal residents may cause social and economic problems, particularly at the
local level.''

Data 'Woefully Inadequate'

The panel also said that immigration statistics were ''woefully inadequate'' for
making decisions about immigration policy, and that as a result immigration
policy ''has been made in a data vacuum.''

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has devoted far too little attention
to the collection of statistics, the panel said, and Congress ''must share in
the blame'' for having condoned this situation.

A Census Bureau estimate in 1980 that there were 3.5 million to six million
illegal aliens in the United States in 1978 has been the most widely accepted
figure. Officials of the immigration service contend that the number has grown
since then, but they have not updated the Census Bureau's estimate, according to
Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service.

Officials of the immigration service and the Census Bureau stood by their
estimates, while acknowledging that there were uncertainties in all such
estimates. Experts generally agree that no precise count of illegal aliens is
possible. #234,000 in New York The Academy panel's study did not estimate the
number of illegal aliens in particular states. The Census Bureau has estimated
that two million illegal aliens were counted in the 1980 census, of whom 234,000
resided in New York State and one million in California. The panel said that
''many, if not the majority'' of illegal aliens were included in the 1980
census.

Estimates of the number of illegal aliens are politically sensitive. If the
number could be conclusively shown to have increased substantially in recent
years, it would tend to support arguments for new immigration controls.
Conversely, if there has been no increase, opponents of controls could argue
that the problem had been exaggerated.

Roger Conner, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which supports stricter limits on immigration, said the panel's
''unreasonably low'' estimate of two million to four million would distract
attention from the panel's important finding that immigration statistics were
extremely inadequate.

The report, ''Immigration Statistics: A Story of Neglect,'' was produced by the
Academy's 14-member Panel on Immigration Statistics in response to a request
from the immigration service. The panel was headed by Burton H. Singer, chairman
of the department of statistics at Columbia University. Copies are available for
$23.95 each from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Avenue N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20418.

'Pressure' Has Risen

Mr. Hill observed that in the last few years there had been an increase in the
number of illegal aliens apprehended by the Border Patrol within 30 days of
their entering the United States. But the number of illegal aliens caught after
living here for a year or more had not increased, he said; that figure for last
year was about 75,000.

This pattern, he said, suggested that ''The pressure of attempted entries has
risen in 1983 and 1984, but the long-term illegal population has not increased
much since the late 1970's.''

This conclusion, in turn, implies that ''the Border Patrol does a much better
job of locating illegal aliens shortly after entry than it is generally given
credit for,'' Mr. Hill wrote.

The report said there was a technical flaw in some previous studies that led
researchers to overstate illegal migration from Mexico to the United States in
the 1970's.

Mr. Hill said, ''The data do not support a huge flood of Mexicans into the
United States in the 1970's, nor the entry of 1.6 million illegal Mexicans in
the 1960's.''

The panel from the Academy said that data on emigration from the United States
were ''totally lacking.'' It recommended that the Census Bureau produce and
publish such data, noting that demographers had estimated that more 100,000
people moved permanently out of this country each year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Patrols Curbed In How They Hunt for Aliens

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 18


Immigration officers searching for illegal aliens may not stop people just
because they look like Hispanic people and have a ''dirty, unkempt appearance,''
a Federal appellate court has ruled.

The ruling Friday by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
stemmed from a case in Washington State in which 22 people challenged officers
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service who stopped the automobile they
were in to question them about their citizenship.

They testified that neither they nor their passengers were illegal aliens. Three
of the 22 said they had been stopped more than once.

A chief immigration service patrol officer in the Spokane area said that in
deciding to stop people the agents relied on a ''Hispanic appearance,'' ''lean
and hungry look'' and a ''dirty, unkempt appearance'' of people traveling early
in the morning in the largely agricultural area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 29, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Bill Pits Unions Against Workers

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 219 words


To the Editor:

The proponents of the Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli Immigration Reform Act have had a
frustrating time over the last three Congresses.

They seem now to be on a new tack: attack the lawyers who assert the rights and
protect the interests of some of those ''huddled masses yearning to breathe
free'' who have managed to make it to the shores of this powerful country (front
page article, Oct. 21, and editorial, Oct. 22).

From the North Carolina indictment of the incoming president of the 1,900-member
national immigration lawyers bar association, in a substantively minor case, to
the subpoenaing in Cambridge, Mass., of the records of a pro bono legal clinic
staffed by Harvard Law School students, immigration lawyers are under serious
attack. Lawyers as a class have never been particularly popular, and
undocumented aliens (usually, but misleadingly referred to, as ''illegal
aliens'') are easy prey.

But the phenomena constituting the immigration problems of the U.S. are a highly
complex and frequently contradictory lot. Attacking the lawyers who try to work
through this morass is an easy ''solution,'' but solves none of the underlying
problems and is a blow to the spirit of civil liberties for all. PETER HIRSCH
Legal Counsel Association of Immigration Attorneys New York, Oct. 22, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 24, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Torpedo From the White House

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 529 words


Two striking facts characterize the national debate over immigration reform.
First, how remarkably bipartisan is the support. Second, how remarkably
bipartisan is the opposition - opposition that could now be deadly unless
President Reagan himself speaks out.

Many Democrats favor the Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli reform bill as a step toward
decent treatment of low-income workers; others oppose it because they fear
discrimination against Hispanics. Many Republicans approve because the bill
would help control the borders; others resist because they fear the loss of
low-wage labor.

So far, the Administration has resolutely supported reform. But there have been
enemies within, as is jarringly clear from a draft report of the President's
Council of Economic Advisers described in The Times yesterday by Robert Pear.
The report purports to be an economic analysis of immigration. More surely it is
a torpedo, fired by Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the council and an implacable
enemy of the bill.

The report is mostly an ambivalent survey of the literature. Do illegal workers
depress wage rates? Yes and no. Do aliens pay more in taxes than they cost in
public services? Some do and some don't, depending on their age. Then, however,
the report turns suddenly and emphatically clear, on the topic of employer
sanctions.

This provision, the heart of the Simpson bill, would remove a sanctimonious
stench from present law. It is now illegal for undocumented aliens to work in
this country - but it is not illegal for employers to hire them. The employer
gets the cheap labor; the alien takes all the risks. The Simpson bill would
apply to employers as well as employees and, by making jobs harder to get, would
discourage aliens from sneaking across the border.

But that, says the council's draft report, would impose ''the equivalent of a
labor market tax'' and hurt the economy. If employers have to look harder for
low-wage workers, and live up to screening obligations, the report says, why
that would reduce labor market efficiency.

True, but in that spirit, why settle for so trivial a remedy? Why stop at
Mexican migrants, who are accustomed to earning a fifth of American wages? Why
not encourage the entry of workers accustomed to earning much less and dispatch
747's, even ocean liners, to Ethiopia or Bangladesh or China to stock up?

Hard as it is to take this draft seriously as a piece of analysis, it sends a
tremulous political signal. The Republican Senate has passed the Simpson bill
again for a third time; and House Democrats, led by Representative Peter Rodino
of New Jersey, are poised for a spring offensive, awaiting a reaffirmation of
support from the President. What do they see churning toward them from the White
House? Mr. Sprinkel's torpedo.  They're not likely to find much assurance in the
council's statement that it does not approve illegality, or in the assurance
from the White House that the report has been modified. These hardly constitute
a positive or ringing Presidential endorsement. If Attorney General Meese and
Mr. Reagan still want this sound, humane immigration law, they need to say so,
loud and clear and in person.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. JUDGE BARS RELIGIOUS ISSUE IN ALIENS CASE

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, July 25


Church workers facing trial may not use religious arguments to justify
transporting and sheltering Central American refugees in defiance of the
immigration laws, a Federal judge ruled in an opinion filed here today.

The ruling, by Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll, means that 12 church
workers, including a nun, two priests and two Protestant ministers, cannot avoid
prosecution for smuggling and harboring illegal aliens. They maintain that their
actions are a spiritual duty and that the charge against them is an
unconstitutional infringement on freedom of religion.

The judge not only rejected a motion to dismiss the charges against the church
workers on religious grounds but also granted a motion by the Federal Government
to bar all testimony, arguments or evidence regarding the defendants' religous
beliefs.

The Government has maintained throughout the prosecution of people in the
sanctuary movement that they are no more than common criminals involved in
smuggling and harboring illegal aliens.

U.S. Role in Salvador Cited

Participants in the movement, which brings refugees from Central America into
the country clandestinely and shelters them in homes and churches, maintain they
are acting out of religious motivations and that the Central Americans, chiefly
Salvadorans, who come to this country are forced to do so because of war,
terrorism and violence supported in part by American military aid to Central
America.

The sanctuary movement has been endorsed by the governing bodies of several
denominations, including the United Methodists and the Presbyterians, and 200
churches are taking part around the country, including the Riverside Church in
New York and 14 churches of various denominations in Tucson.

Several church workers have already been tried and convicted on charges of
transporting illegal aliens. In the most recent case, in Texas, a worker was
given a two-year prison sentence in a Government crackdown.

In the case here, 16 defendants were originally charged last January with 71
counts of conspiracy and related acts in the transporting and harboring of
illegal aliens.

Two defendants, both Salvadorans who assisted church workers in bringing family
members into this country, pleaded guilty to reduced misdemeanor charges and
were given probation.

Response to Pretrial Motions

The ruling by Judge Carroll was a response to pretrial motions by Government and
defense lawyers.

In its motions, the Government asked that no testimony be allowed regarding
religious motivation, Government policy in Central America, international law
relating to United States immigration policy and what it considers other
extraneous issues.

So far, Judge Carroll has granted most of the Government's requests.

The defendants have admitted publicly that they transported and sheltered
Central Americans. They have maintain that American immigration policy is
illegal and that elimination of arguments about immigration policy and religious
motivation robs them of any defense whatsoever.

A. Bates Butler 3d, one of the lawyers defending the sanctuary workers, a former
United States District Attorney who is now in private practice, said the ruling
today was a setback. ''Any time we can't inform the jury about the facts as they
exist, it makes the defense task more difficult,'' he said in a telephone
inteview after the ruling was made public today.

U.S. Attorney Defines Case

The United States attorney, Don Reno, said: ''This is not a Government attack on
religion. It's a prosecution of alien smuggling.''

Mr. Reno maintains that the investigation, which took 10 months and used two
paid Government informers, both previously involved in transporting illegal farm
workers, was routine.

The two informers made over 100 hours of secret tape recordings, some in
churches, dealing with planning sessions and other sanctuary activities.

The Government is now transcribing the 91 tape recordings, some in Spanish, and
the trial of the workers, originally set for September, has been rescheduled to
begin Oct. 15.

At hearings last month, one defendant, Sister Darlene Nicgorski of the School
Sisters of Saint Francis in Phoenix, said, ''To deny our religious motivation is
to deny 19 years of my life as a Catholic sister, and that's going to be very
difficult to do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Giving Immigration the Business

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 680 words


Once, walking through his apricot orchard, a California grower was asked what
would happen if Congress reformed immigration law, sharply curtailing illegal
farm workers. ''I'd go out of business the next day,'' he said. In that case,
how much could he sell his land for? ''Who said anything about selling the land?
I'd cut down the apricot trees and plant walnuts. You don't need to pick
walnuts; you can shake them down.''

The story, told by a student of immigration law, tells something about how
Western growers last week shook down the Senate, in a blazing example of
special-interest politics. The Senate finally passed immigration reform, but
only after nearly giving away the farm.

The damage need not be mortal. It was contained by a later amendment and can be
mitigated in the House. In any case, farm workers account for only about 15
percent of illegal entrants. Controlling the illegal flow remains worthy of
support from all those, right and left, who have spoken for it so forcefully.
What most needs to be heard now is the voice of the President.

The heart of the reform bill is the correction of a glaring wrong in present
law, one that encourages hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants: It is
illegal for them to work in this country but it is not illegal to hire them.
Under the legislation, sponsored this year by Senator Alan Simpson, Wyoming
Republican, and Representative Peter Rodino, New Jersey Democrat, the Government
could finally go after the employers, too.

''Hardship!'' insist the growers of perishable fruits and vegetables. ''We need
special treatment!'' Sometimes, truly, they do. Sometimes they cannot find
enough domestic workers for the harvest. Without access to experienced foreign
workers, crops would rot. Yet at other times, it is easy to believe that the
growers are really clamoring for something else, not labor that is experienced
but labor that is cheap.

Senator Simpson's bill responds to the plea of hardship. It would make importing
foreign workers easier under present law. The bill also offers special
treatment. All other businesses would have to stop hiring illegals immediately.
Growers would get three years to comply gradually.

What did the growers say to all this? Not good enough. They launched a costly
campaign for treatment that is even more special. Last week they got it, in the
form of what might be called the Wilson Workers. Senator Pete Wilson, California
Republican, persuaded his colleagues to create, just for growers, an
astonishingly large army of seasonal farm workers, up to 350,000 at a time. All
a worker need do to get a nine-month visa is apply for it. Monitoring all those
workers to see that they go home after nine months would not, however, be so
simple.

What's a torpedo like that doing in a bill intended to give the nation more
control of its borders? The motive was not need, Senator Simpson said, but
greed. Such thoughts must have occurred to many senators after they voted to
create wave after wave of Wilson Workers. The next day, they limited the program
to three years.

The Senate's passage of the whole bill leaves two hurdles. The House passed it
with difficulty last year, before it died in conference. With Chairman Rodino's
lead, it may pass more easily this year. In the process, the House could insist
on sharply reducing the Wilson Workers.

The final hurdle is the President. Attorney General Meese professes strong
Administration support for the legislation. But the bill has been attacked by
White House guerrillas before. This is a fine time for a strong word from
President Reagan, especially considering that Senator Wilson, the grand
panjandrum of all those Wilson Workers, is from Mr. Reagan's own party and
state.

What does the President, such a determined foe of iniquitous ''special
interests,'' think of what the California growers have wrought? Does he believe
that Wilson Workers will strengthen America's capacity to control its borders?
Most of all, does he want immigration reform? If he does, this could finally be
the year. But he has to say so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 7, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ENTRY BY NON-MEXICANS ON RISE AT BORDER

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1779 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., Oct. 3


Federal officials say that growing numbers of immigrants from Central and South
America, China, Korea, India, Poland and other countries are entering the
country illegally across the Mexican border.

Until recently, officials say, virtually all of the aliens caught trying to
steal across the 2,000-mile border between the United States and Mexico were
Mexicans and, to a much lesser extent, immigrants from El Salvador. But over the
past two years or so, immigration officials said they have detected an upsurge
of illegal immigration across the border from virtually every part of the world.


Professional Smugglers Suspected

According to investigators for the United States Border Patrol, dozens of
organizations of professional smugglers based in Latin America, Asia, Europe and
elsewhere are charging up to $10,000 a person to bring aliens across the border.
The investigators also say the smugglers sometimes arrange to have bandits rob
the immigrants at the border.

''This is really a new phenomenon; what's frightening us about it is that we
don't know who is crossing our borders,'' said Robert Walsh, assistant
commissioner for intelligence of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
While the vast majority of people in this new wave of illegal immigration may be
propelled by hope of finding a better life, he said, ''there are people who may
be infiltrating the United States for political reasons, for terrorist
reasons.''

Mr. Walsh said immigration officials in Britain, Canada and other industrialized
countries have also noted a rise in efforts by citizens of lesser developed
countries to immigrate illegally in the last two years.

No one knows how many people have entered the country illegally from Mexico or
any other country. Most immigration officials concede that only a fraction of
those who attempt to do so are caught. But data compiled by the Border Patrol
indicate a rise in the number of people from around the world who are crossing
the border without authorization.

Data Indicate a Trend

Here in San Diego County, Calif., alone, almost 10,000 aliens from countries
other than Mexico were arrested over the 12-month period that ended Sept. 30
trying to cross illegally into the United States near this border town. San
Ysidro, about 16 miles south of downtown San Diego, is across the border from
Tijuana.

The number of arrests near here was more than 20 percent higher than in the
previous 12 months and included twice the number of non-Mexicans caught two
years ago, according to preliminary data compiled last week by the Border
Patrol.

The number of Guatemalans caught at the border near here in the past year, for
example, was more than 2,000, up more than 30 percent. The number of Nicaraguans
caught at the San Diego County border, estimated at more than 650 for the year,
was up by 58 percent, and the number of apprehended Colombians was up 89
percent, estimated at 450 for the year.

The number of aliens from China, South Korea, India, Honduras, Peru, Argentina,
and other countries crossing here also increased.

Other Areas See Increase

The pattern is similar elsewhere along the border, officials said. Jerry Hicks,
a senior official of the Border Patrol in McAllen, Tex., who helps to police a
270-mile stretch of the border in the Rio Grande Valley, said, ''During August,
we had an increase of over 100 percent in apprehensions of other-than-Mexican
aliens, which we refer to as 'O.T.M's.' ''

Although most were from Central America, he said, ''we had people from China,
Afghanistan, Poland - 42 different nationalities in all.''

''I've been in this over 25 years, and it used to be rare to get anybody from
Central America or outside Mexico,'' Mr. Hicks added. ''Now, you've got 'em
coming from all over. They're looking for a better life, and they all want to
come to the United States.''

Most of the Central Americans who escape detection at the border, officials say,
appear to be settling in the Los Angeles area, especially along Pico Boulevard,
a mile-long corridor, where hundreds of thousands of Central Americans live.

New York City is also an increasingly popular choice among immigrants from
Colombia, Honduras and some other Central American countries, immigration
specialists say. The city is also attracting many of the Korean and Chinese
illegal immigrants, the specialists say.

Efforts to Control Immigration

The officials say that personnel increases in the the Border Patrol this year by
the Reagan Administration had undoubtedly contributed to the rise in
apprehensions at the border. But intelligence specialists in the agency say
investigations of organized smuggling operations indicated the number of
non-Mexicans trying to enter the country illegally is continuing to rise
sharply.

Officials said, however, that there appeared to be an unexplained drop recently
in illegal immigration from El Salvador. In the San Diego area, arrests in the
past year declined to 3,651, from 4,077 the previous year.

Officials say they believe one reason for the apparent rise in illegal
immigration by non-Mexicans are the successful efforts to detect forged entry
documents, which have prompted more immigrants to attempt to enter without
documentation.

The influx of non-Mexican aliens is still relatively small compared with the
number of Mexicans believed to be entering the country illegally. In the fiscal
year that ended a week ago, for example, some 420,000 Mexicans were caught at
the border in San Diego County, compared with about 10,000 non-Mexicans.

Immigration officials say, however, that what is apparently a much faster rise
in the number of non-Mexican aliens trying to enter the country illegally are
posing increasingly difficult administrative problems.

Gene R. Smithburg, assistant chief of the San Diego Border Patrol unit that
polices a 66-mile stretch of desert, canyons and mountains that is regarded by
Federal officials as one of the busiest illegal gateways to the United States,
said Mexicans arrested at the border can be quickly returned to their country.
But Federal law requires all illegal aliens to be returned to their homeland.
When immigrants from countries such as India, Korea or Poland are arrested, he
said, the Border Patrol must send them home at the expense of the American
taxpayer. ''It's costing millions and millions'' a year, he said.

Using the Legal Avenues

Moreover, he added, many of the new immigrants are more sophisticated than many
of the poor, rural Mexicans who attempt to enter illegally. Many of the
non-Mexicans have been briefed on what legal rights they will have as an illegal
alien and know how to delay their deportation if caught at the border, either by
claiming asylum as political refugees or through other legal avenues.

''Many of them have relatives in this country who get them lawyers and know how
to delay the process,'' he said. '''They're filling up our detention
facilities.''

Americans who have helped illegal aliens from Central America find refuge in
this country have argued that most are political refugees trying to escape
repression, and as such are entitled to asylum. But Border Patrol officials, in
interviews, maintain that political motives are a factor in only a tiny portion
of the immigration. A search for a better life, they contend, is the force that
propels most of the immigrants toward this country. If that is the case most
would not be entitled to asylum.

Bargaining With Smugglers

Investigators say that most of the non-Mexican aliens bound for this country
negotiate their passage with representatives of smuggling rings, who officials
said were usually employees of travel agencies, in their home countries. The
investigators said package fees may be $2,500 or less for travel from some
countries in Central America to $10,000, or sometimes more, from India, Taiwan,
Hong Kong and some other nations.

Most smuggling rings, said Mr. Hicks, the Border Patrol official in Texas,
''specialize, dealing with a particular nationality; it's all highly
organized.''

Smugglers net tens of millions of dollars annually for trafficking in human
cargo, investigators say. Typically, the route of the would-be Americans takes
them first to Mexico City or, often, to Guatemala or another country in Central
America where they can obtain genuine or counterfeit documents allowing them to
enter Mexico. Once in Mexico City, they board a plane to a city near the border
and await guides who lead them across the frontier.

Usually, investigators say, they are then taken to a private home or ''safe
house'' on the American side of the border and await transportation to Los
Angeles, New York, or another destination.

Although the Mexican aliens who sought to cross the border in the past usually
came with nothing but the clothing they wore, investigators say that many of the
new immigrants, especially those from China and India, often bring significant
amounts of cash or other property. And increasingly, they are being met by
bandits who in many cases have been tipped off about their wealth by informers
among the smuggling rings.

For the past 20 months, the Border Patrol and San Diego Police Department have
assigned a team of volunteer officers to help protect the aliens from the bandit
gangs; so far, there have been 13 shoot-outs in which at least five bandits were
killed and four Americans injured.

If, as expected, the new influx of non-Mexican immigrants continues, Border
Patrol agents say they expect still more gun battles and robberies here along
the international frontier.

''The border,'' Mr. Smithburg said, ''is a very violent place.''

'A Bag of Money'

Almost 150 Chinese were caught trying to cross the border near here in the first
nine months of this year. ''Most of the Chinese have relatives here,'' said Mr.
Smithburg, the San Diego border official. ''Most are destined to the East Coast,
and almost all get out on bond.''

A few weeks ago, he said, 13 nationals of the People's Republic of China were
arrested as they walked across the border not far from here. They were natives
of a province on the southeastern coast of China who had come by way of Hong
Kong, Guatemala City and Mexico City, to make their way to a desolate stretch of
the border.

Within days of their arrest, Mr. Smithburg said, ''a guy showed up with a bag of
money to bond them out.''

''He had $130,000 in cash in a paper bag,'' Mr. Smithburg said. ''They'll
forfeit $10,000 bond a piece, and we'll probably never see them again. They'll
probably have to work for the rest of their lives, probably in someone's kitchen
or restaurant, to pay it off.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 20, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
THE CITY OPENS ITS ARMS AND SHUTS ITS EYES TO ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 211 words


ACCUSING the Federal Government of failing to defend the borders of the United
States against illegal immigrants, then refusing to provide financial assistance
to cover the city's cost of providing health services and education for aliens
who are here, Mayor Koch said last week that the city would not report illegal
aliens to Federal authorities unless they appeared to be involved in criminal
activity. He said as many as 750,000 illegal immigrants live in New York.

City officials also said Federal immigration agents had asked repeatedly that
the city not routinely turn in illegal immigrants because the capacity to hold
and prosecute them was inadequate.

The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service called the city's policy
''unwise and unpatriotic.'' Greg Leo, an agency spokesman, said the city had an
obligation to help the Government enforce immigration laws. Later, Federal
officials acknowledged that they had urged the city to report only people
suspected of criminal activity because they do not have the resources to track
down every illegal alien reported to them.

Mr. Koch said he had acted because he wanted immigrants to know that they could
receive health care and their children could attend school without being subject
to arrest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 4, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. DEBATING NEW POLICY ON ALIEN MINORS' RIGHTS

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1449 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 3


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, in an effort to reach a new policy
for dealing with children in its custody, is negotiating with critics who
contend the service has been ignoring the children's rights.

The negotiations follow a long dispute between the National Center for
Immigrants' Rights, which says unaccompanied alien minors have been routinely
coerced into agreeing to voluntary deportation, and Government officials who
contend they face a sophisticated system used by illegal aliens, particularly
from Central America, for bringing additional family members into the United
States.

The dispute culminated in a Sept. 30 ruling by a Federal judge that the
immigration service's policies concerning children were unconstitutional and
must be changed.

The ruling that prompted the negotiations ordered the immigration agency to
provide children with an understandable description of their rights, access to a
telephone and up-to-date information on obtaining legal assistance, before
allowing them to waive a deportation hearing. Illegal aliens are entitled by law
to a hearing on whether they may remain in this country.

Hearing on Judge's Ruling

The immigration service has not decided whether to appeal the court ruling, but
has requested a hearing, scheduled for Monday, to obtain clarification,
according to William B. Odencrantz, general counsel for the agency's Western
office.

The case was brought to the courts here in 1981 by a coalition of immigrants'
rights and civil liberties groups, under the umbrella of the immigrants' center,
which is active in the cause of Central American refugees. Coalition members
contended that children under the age of 18, when taken into custody apart from
their families, were often hurried out of the country by the immigration
authorities without being adequately advised of their rights and were sometimes
mistreated and verbally abused.

Immigration officials say about 200 alien minors are in detention in this
country at any one time, and that up to 120 of these are in the Los Angeles
area. The immigrants' rights center says the number is higher.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said that
when children are picked up singly, it is frequently because their parents
illegally entered the United States earlier and hired smugglers to bring their
children from Central America to join them.

''Almost every time, that child is alone because his parents have created that
situation,'' Mr. Austin said. ''They're with a smuggler on the border because
the parents chose to abandon him earlier.''

'Conspiracy of Families'

George Wu, an assistant United States Attorney in Los Angeles who represented
the Government in the case before Federal District Judge Edward Rafeedie,
likened the situation to ''a conspiracy of families'' that is aimed at
circumventing United States policy that denies political asylum to most illegal
immigrants, particularly from El Salvador. The Reagan Administration holds that
most Central Americans who try to enter this country are fleeing economic
conditions and are therefore ineligible for political asylum.

Lawyers for the rights organizations counter that they are seeking to assure
children the minimum rights ''of a civilized society.''

''There's no question that there are Salvadoran, Guatemalan children, often very
young, and that their passage to this country is paid for by their parents,''
said Mark Rosenbaum of the Los Angeles chapter of the American Civil Liberties
Union, who was one of the lawyers in the case. ''But the reason they're here is
not because their parents want them to visit Disneyland, it's because they're
fleeing life-endangering situations. That's perfectly appropriate for a
parent.''

Change in Policy Ordered

The lawsuit was filed on behalf of Jose Antonio Perez-Funez, a 15-year-old from
El Salvador who was about to be deported, and a number of alien children picked
up in California and other states, most of whom were from El Salvador.

Judge Rafeedie, calling the nature of immigration processing for deportation
''inherently coercive,'' ordered the immigration service to alter its policies.

In the past, Judge Rafeedie said, ''agents permitted a phone call prior to
presentation of the voluntary-departure form only in the low-volume offices and
then only upon request.''

''Unaccompanied alien children possess substantial constitutional and statutory
rights,'' in spite of their illegal entry into the United States, Judge Rafeedie
said, adding that the most important of these was a right to a hearing before
deportation.

Charges of Abuse Rejected

The judge rejected allegations that the immigration service has subjected
unaccompanied minors to physical mistreatment and verbal abuse. Several
witnesses had testified that they had been ill-treated, but Judge Rafeedie said
he did not believe them.

The judge characterized the immigration agency as as ''a well-intentioned agency
with considerable expertise,'' but also said he considered the remedies ''not
unduly burdensome.''

In a second lawsuit, now pending in Federal District Court in Los Angeles, the
immigrants' rights center accusing the immigration service of using
unaccompanied alien children to lure their parents into custody by refusing to
release them to what the group characterized as other qualified adults.

Immigration officials deny using children as bait and defend their policy as
being in the best interest of the children. John Belluardo, a spokesman for the
immigration service's Western section, said the agency's policy was to release
unaccompanied minors only to a parent or legal guardian as a precaution against
turning over a child to an unauthorized person.

Agency Disputes Charges

Mr. Austin, of the agency's Washington headquarters, flatly denied that the
agency was taking improper advantage of the situation to apprehend adults. ''We
say to these parents, come in,'' he said. ''We'll give you your child and let
you leave with your child. We won't legalize you, but we'll let you go.''

But Peter Schey, director of the immigrants center, contended that the agency
has abused the policy by holding children hostage.

Mr. Schey cited the experience of Jenny Lisette Flores, a 15-year-old from El
Salvador who is a plaintiff in the suit. Mr. Schey said she was held in
Government detention for two months after she was arrested for illegally
entering the United States last spring. He said that Jenny's aunt, an American
citizen living in the Los Angeles area, offered to take the teen-ager into her
home, but was turned down by the immigration service.

The suit also charged that alien children are detained in potentially harmful
living conditions, sometimes placed with adult strangers in detention centers
and denied adequate resources for education and recreation.

Jenny was ordered released on bond by a judge last July, Mr. Schey said.

Conditions Under Custody

Mr. Schey contended that during her detention, Miss Flores was held in an
immigration agency center that was a converted motel and was placed in a room
with two adult women she did not know. He said she had been subjected to
strip-searches and vaginal searches there before she was allowed to meet with
her lawyer. Moreover, Mr. Schey said, she had access to no educational resources
and the only recreational facility was a former parking lot, Mr. Schey said.

The immigration spokesman, Mr. Belluardo, said, ''The claims made in the suit as
a whole are exaggerated and without merit.''

Mr. Belluardo denied that strip or vaginal searches were conducted at the
facility, which is operated under contract by a private company.

He said, however, that he did not know whether children were housed there with
strange adults.

Mr. Belluardo said it was ''impractical to have an educational program because
these youngsters are only in custody two or three weeks at a time.''

Mr. Schey, in an interview, asserted that the policy barring release of alien
children to anyone other than a parent or legal guardian ''came about for one
reason only, and that was to provide the Immigration Service with an enforcement
mechanism which basically involves holding the children as hostages to surrender
to the agency.''

But Ernest Gustafson, director of the Los Angeles district of the Immigration
Service, just as flatly disputed that. ''I've got all the people I need to
apprehend very close, if I needed a certain number of a certain day,'' Mr.
Gustafson said. ''We are not about to release the children to anyone on the
street who has bond money. Our policy is good common sense, the protection of
the children.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Jenny Lisette Flores (NYT/Roger Sandler)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 27, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Cities Can't Make Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words


San Francisco and half a dozen other cities are declaring themselves to be
sanctuaries for illegal immigrants from Central America. Inspired by the
religiously-based sanctuary movement, they propose to shelter these assertedly
persecuted aliens in a variety of ways, from ignoring immigration rules to
outright defiance of Federal agents. No matter how humanely motivated, these
actions are misguided.

Cities are well within their rights to say what Mayor Koch has said for New
York: Local authorities are not responsible for guarding the borders and in fact
are obliged to give support services to needy and otherwise law-abiding illegals
without turning them over to the Feds. That's just; it's also sensible. Fighting
crime and containing sickness are prominent municipal duties. In any case,
Federal immigration officials, lacking the resources to deal with many more
cases, do not ask for such wholesale reporting.

It is something quite different for a city to proclaim itself as a haven for
illegal aliens whom the Government is determined to deport. That offers a
reckless and false promise to fugitive illegals already here and an inducement
to those thinking of sneaking into the United States. It also invites
retaliation in the form of Federal fund cutoffs or lost Federal law enforcement
cooperation.

Like the church movement, the cities are acting in the belief that Federal
authorities have improperly refused to classify Central American immigrants as
refugees. But the Federal Government adheres to the United Nations definition,
which reserves the pitiable status of refugee for people with a well-founded
fear of political persecution. Such migrants are different from people who enter
this country seeking opportunity. Economic migrants should take their place in
line with all other applicants around the world.

Thus the cities in this sanctuary exercise are, like the church people now on
trial in Tucson, arrogating to themselves a Federal function. They claim to have
examined individual immigrants and pronounced them refugees. This is, at best, a
kind of civil disobedience, without a willingness to accept the legal
consequences.

Individuals who defy Federal law may at least take instruction from the classic
doctrine of disobedience, as cogently defined by the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. in his ''Letter From a Birmingham Jail'': ''I submit that an individual
who breaks a law that conscience tells him is unjust and willingly accepts the
penalty by staying in jail to arouse the conscience of the community over its
injustice, is in reality expressing the very highest respect for the law.''

That high creed is not available, however, to San Francisco's supervisors and
other city authorities who act as if they had authority to proclaim their own
immigration policy. If the law displeases them, let them petition Washington. If
they find it unconscionable, rather than claim municipal authority for open
defiance, let them take the consequences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

'STARTLING' SURGE IS REPORTED IN ILLEGAL ALIENS FROM MEXICO

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20


The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service warned today that
there had been a ''startling'' surge of illegal aliens entering the United
States from Mexico in recent months.

''We are seeing the greatest surge of people in history across our southern
border,'' Commissioner Alan C. Nelson said at a news conference called to renew
the agency's appeal for tougher immigration laws.

Mr. Nelson said American border agents were apprehending nearly 40 percent more
illegal aliens from Mexico each day than were captured last year. Immigration
officials expect to apprehend 1.8 million illegal aliens nationwide this year,
he said, 50 percent more than last year's record total of 1.2 million. #95%
Enter From Mexico Even though the number of immigration agents assigned to the
Mexican border has been greatly enlarged, he said, the improved law-enforcement
effort has not kept pace with the number of people trying to cross into the
United States.

Nearly 95 percent of the aliens apprehended by the immigration service attempt
to cross from Mexico. Officials say that for every alien apprehended, two or
three aliens are able to cross the border without detection.

Mr. Nelson said that economic troubles in Mexico and Central America were
largely responsible for the growing number of people entering the United States
illegally. The figures released today, he said, demonstrated the need for
legislation to provide sanctions against employers who knowingly hire illegal
aliens.

''We need the immigration reform legislation,'' he said. ''The best deterrent to
illegal immigration is to remove the attraction of easy-to-obtain jobs. We
remain hopeful that this legislation will become a reality this year.''

Last month, he said, the Government apprehended 131,500 illegal aliens on the
border with Mexico, as against 86,200 in the same month last year. ''The pace in
February has not slackened,'' he said.

The numbers may grow even further, he said, as a result of the earthquakes that
devastated portions of Mexico City last year. The earthquakes uprooted tens of
thousands of people.

Mr. Nelson said that narcotics trafficking remained a growing problem for the
Border Patrol. He released figures showing that the number of narcotics seizures
at the borders had increased by more than 25 percent over the last two years.

The immigration official suggested there was a growing ''criminal element among
those coming in, which can add to crime in many of our cities and communities.''


Rise in Drug Smuggling

According to the Immigration Service, border agents made 886 narcotics seizures
at the borders in the last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, up 28 percent from
the previous year. The value of the seized drugs nearly tripled in the same
period, to $120 million from $42.5 million.

According to immigration officials, the growing number of arrests of illegal
aliens is partly a result of the recent addition of 650 immigration agents on
the border with Mexico, a one-third jump in the size of the patrol. But they are
still badly outnumbered, Mr. Nelson said.

''Our intelligence sources report that 1,500 persons a day are arriving by train
at Mexicali, Mexico, from the interior with most continuing by bus onto Tijuana
on the border,'' Mr. Nelson said at the news conference.

''Mexican airlines also tell us they are seeing more poor people arriving by air
at Tijuana on the 14 daily flights from the interior,'' he said. ''The
conclusion drawn from this heavy flow of traffic is that many, if not most, will
try to enter the United States illegally.''

New Laws Are Urged

He said the numbers pointed up the need for immigration reform, specifically
legislation now before Congress that would impose penalties on employers who
hire illegal immigrants. In the past, the Reagan Administration has supported
such bills, including one passed by the Senate last September and awaiting
action in the House.

Mr. Nelson seemed to play down the results of a report prepared by the
President's Council of Economic Advisers, which found that proposals to punish
employers of illegal aliens would have adverse effects on the economy. The
report found that sanctions against employers would impose a new ''labor market
tax'' that would reduce productivity.

The immigrantion bill, Mr. Nelson said, would aid the Government by, among other
things, reducing the use of such public facilities as hospitals and schools by
illegal aliens. And some Americans might be put back to work as illegal aliens
were removed from some jobs, Federal officials have said.

Mr. Nelson said he hoped Congress would view the legislation as ''not only
necessary, but also a cost saver.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graph of aliens coming over (page A15); photo of Alan C. Nelson

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Surge of Aliens Said to Enter U.S.

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and aroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 242 words


Economic hard times in Latin America have touched off a ''startling'' surge of
illegal aliens streaming north across the border,the head of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said last week.

At a news conference, I.N.S. Commissioner Alan C. Nelson said the number of
illegal aliens being captured along the Mexican border is 43 percent higher than
last year. If the trend continues, he said, the agency expects to apprehend 1.8
million illegal aliens this year, 50 percent more than last year's record total,
1.2 million. The I.N.S.'s rule of thumb is that for every alien apprehended, two
or three cross undetected.

Commissioner Nelson described the border as a strikingly rougher place this
year, with Mexican-based bandits frequently crossing the frontier to strip
illegal aliens of their valuables and, occasionally, ambush American border
patrol officers. Further, he said, his agents are seizing more illegal
narcotics. Altogether, he said, nearly $42 million in drugs were confiscated by
border patrols in the fiscal year 1984; the figure tripled last year.

The commissioner clearly had one eye on the border badlands and the other on
Capitol Hill. Congress, he said, should forthwith overhaul the immigration laws
and, among other things, impose stiff sanctions on businesses employing illegal
aliens. The Senate approved a package of immigration-law revisions last year;
the House version is still in the Judiciary Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 18, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE WILL GET IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17


Senator Alan K. Simpson will soon reintroduce his comprehensive immigration
bill, but with major changes designed to increase its chances of passage in the
next 18 months.

Different versions of the bill have twice been approved by the Senate, in 1982
and 1983, and once by the House of Representatives, in 1984. But it died last
October when a House-Senate conference committee was unable to resolve
differences between two versions.

The chances for passage of the bill in the Senate have, if anything, improved
since Mr. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican, became the assistant majority leader
this year.

The prospects in the House are uncertain, and the chief sponsor of the House
bill for the last three years, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky, said today that it was too early for him to discuss his plans.

Penalties for Employers

Mr. Simpson's bill is designed to curtail illegal immigration to the United
States by establishing stiff penalties for employers who knowlingly hire illegal
aliens. It would also offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered the
United States before 1980 under a plan often referred to as an amnesty program.

The biggest change from prior versions of the bill, according to the Senator, is
a proposal to make the amnesty contingent upon a showing of improved enforcement
of the immigration laws.

The amnesty program could not start until a Presidential commission, called for
in the bill, certified that the employment of illegal aliens had been reduced.
It was not made clear how the commission would make this determination.

Richard W. Day, chief counsel to the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration, said that as other conditions for the amnesty the commission would
need to certify a reduction in the entry of illegal aliens and a reduction in in
the number of aliens who entered legally but stayed beyond their authorized
time.



'Triggered Legalization'

The bill sets no time limit for the start of the amnesty and some critics of the
legislation expressed concern that there could be a very long delay before it
took effect.

In an interview, Mr. Simpson, the subcommittee chairman, described these
conditions for the amnesty plan as a ''triggered legalization'' program. Under
previous versions of the bill, the amnesty program would have begun
automatically three to six months after the bill became law.

The changes are designed to make the program more palatable to members of
Congress and the public. ''Our mail continues to be overwhelmingly opposed'' to
granting legal status to illegal aliens, Mr. Day said, and ''opinion polls show
a majority of Americans opposed to it.''

Under the new bill, like the old one, it would be unlawful for an employer to
hire an alien knowing he was not authorized to work in the United States. The
penalties on employers could be much higher than under prior versions of the
bill, which set a maximum fine of $2,000 for each illegal alien hired.

Under the new bill, Mr. Day said, for a first offense the employer would be
subject to a penalty of $100 to $2,000 for each illegal alien he hired.
Penalties for a second offense would range from $2,000 to $5,000. For subsequent
offenses, it would range from $3,000 to $10,000.

Under current law, it is generally not illegal for an employer to hire an
illegal alien, but the alien may be deported if he is caught.

The bills passed by the Senate and the House would have required employers of
four or more persons to ask all job applicants for documents to verify that they
were citizens or aliens authorized to work in the United States. The bills would
also have required employers to keep records showing they had complied with this
provision.

Under the new bill, the verification and paperwork would be optional, Mr. Day
said. But an employer who kept records showing that he examined identification
documents and verified the eligibility of job applicants would have an
''affirmative defense'' against any charge that he had knowingly hired an
illegal alien.

If employers did not keep such records, Mr. Day said: ''If they are found with
an illegal alien in their employ, they will be presumed to have knowingly hired
that alien. We think this presumption will be sufficient to encourage a large
percentage of employers to check the documents of all employees.''

Mark A. de Bernardo, manager of labor law for the Chamber of Commerce of the
United States, said this change in the bill was an improvement. However, he said
the Chamber, which opposed the earlier version of employer sanctions, had not
taken a position on Mr. Simpson's new proposal.

Mr. Day outlined the new bill at a recent conference here sponsored by the
Center for Migration Studies, a nonprofit institute that does research on
migration and refugee affairs.

He said the bill would adopt provisions of the conference committee agreement
making it easier for farmers to bring foreign workers into the United States.
This compromise did not go far enough to satisfy many growers of fruit and
vegetables, but it went too far to be acceptable to the United Farm Workers of
America.

Mr. Simpson said he was encouraging the growers and organized labor to work out
a better compromise if they could this year.

Joseph M. Trevino, executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, said his group would probably be ''more adamant in opposition to
Senator Simpson's new bill than to the old one.''

''We believe employer sanctions will not be effective in deterring illegal
immigration, but will promote discrimination against Hispanics,'' Mr. Trevino
said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 24, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ADMINISTRATION IS DIVIDED OVER BILL ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23


As Congress once again takes up an immigration bill that would ban the hiring of
illegal aliens, the Reagan Administration is sharply divided over a proposal to
allow American farmers to employ hundreds of thousands of temporary workers from
foreign countries.

The Agriculture Department argues that temporary workers are needed to ease the
transition for an industry long dependent on illegal aliens for the harvesting
of perishable crops. But the Labor Department contends such programs would be a
new source of illegal immigrants who would depress domestic wages and weaken
labor standards.

The dispute over the issue began in 1983 when an extensive lobbying campaign by
the growers began to make headway in the Congress. It intensified this year when
the comprehensive immigration bill providing for a new foreign worker program
was introduced by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming.

Labor Secretary Bill Brock told the Office of Management and Budget last week
that the foreign laborers could become a ''new pool'' of illegal immigrants at a
time when the United States was trying to regain control of its borders.

Brock Wrote Budget Office

Mr. Brock wrote in a letter: ''I must express equally strong concerns about the
potential adverse effect that a new large-scale flow of unskilled alien workers
would have on our most disadvantaged workers - unskilled youths, especially
blacks and Hispanics -whose unemployment rates are a continuing cause of serious
concern.''

The Agriculture Department, which supports Mr. Simpson's proposal, is pushing
the Administration for an even broader program that would provide for the rapid
admission of temporary workers for the perishable fruit industry. In the Senate,
39 members have signed a letter calling for such a program.

An Agriculture Department official who asked not to be identified said the
temporary workers were intended as a ''safety valve'' as the industry moved away
from its traditional work force of illegal aliens. ''The labor protections
afforded American workers are extremely broad,'' he said.

A number of growers have told Congress that they rely on illegal aliens to
harvest their crops. Many of those who grow perishable produce fear their crops
could rot on the vine if the ban on hiring illegal aliens becomes law.

Mr. Simpson, at a meeting of the Senate Judiciary Commmittee last week, said
that the growers originally agreed to a relatively limited program for temporary
foreign workers, in 1983, in the recent attempts to pass immigration
legislation. However, they succeeded, he said, in winning a more expansive
program with fewer controls from the House in its bill last year.

The immigration bills passed last year died in conference when Senate and House
conferees failed to reach agreement.

The temporary worker issue will be debated this week before the Senate Judiciary
Committee, which is scheduled to act on Senator Simpson's bill. Senator Edward
M. Kennedy has said he will offer an amendment to delete the temporary worker
provisions.

Mr. Simpson's bill sets several requirments before growers could hire temporary
foreign workers. The growers would have to obtain Department of Labor
certification that there were no willing, able or qualified American workers
available in the region. In addition, the employers would need a finding by the
department that the temporary workers would not adversely affect wages and
working conditions offered to domestic workers in the area.

Under the bill, foreign workers could be admitted while an application was
pending before the Department of Labor if the grower had a ''critical need.''

Opponents of these provisions, including organized labor, are concerned that the
standards would make it too easy to admit temporary workers. They argue that the
temporary foreign workers in agriculture will make their way into other parts of
the work force, where they will compete with domestic workers.

Limited Times and Jobs

While the foreign workers would be allowed for a limited period for specific
jobs under the bill, they would be allowed to remain in the United States for
short periods to look for additional work with other employers involved in the
program.

Growers violating terms of the program could be barred from it for up to a year.
There would be no limit on the number of aliens who could be admitted under the
program, though at least one Senator was considering proposing one.

Mr. Brock said that as many as 300,000 to 500,000 temporary workers might enter
the country annually under the program. Federal officials have estimated that
about 500,000 illegal aliens enter the country each year looking for work in
agriculture and a broad range of other industries.

Some civil rights groups say Mr. Simpson's proposal amounts to a revival of a
temporary worker plan that was ended in 1964. Richard Fajardo, acting associate
general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, said
that Mr. Simpson's plan offered fewer protections than did the program ended in
1964. That program was widely criticized by civil rights groups.

Mr. Fajardo noted that under that program, the costs of transportation and tools
were borne by the employer. The proposed Senate bill would allow the workers to
be charged for such costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 25, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

RODINO PLAN SEEN AIDING CHANCES OF BILL ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 24


The immigration bill that Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New
Jersey, plans to introduce differs markedly from the bill in the Senate.

Lobbyists who follow the issue say the involvement of Mr. Rodino, chairman of
the House Judiciary Committee, has increased the chances that Congress will pass
an immigration measure after several years of efforts.

Mr. Rodino's bill, to be introduced Thursday, would offer legal status to
millions of aliens who entered the United States illegally before Jan. 1, 1982,
according to a summary of its provisions circulating today on Capitol Hill.

The bill would provide for both civil and criminal penalities against employers
who knowingly hired illegal aliens. It would also require employers of four or
more workers to keep records on their attempts to verify the immigration status
of a prospective employee. Companies would be required to examine two pieces of
identification for each new employee, under the bill.

Employers who knowingly hired an illegal alien would be subject to fines of
$1,000 to $2,000 for each alien hired. Subsequent offenses could lead to fines
of $2,000 to 5,000 for each illegal alien worker with criminal penalities of up
to six months in jail for those found to in a ''pattern or practice'' of
deliberately hiring illegal aliens.

The measure calls for a new Office of Special Counsel within the Justice
Department that would prosecute cases in which companies discriminated on the
basis of alien status. Hispanic rights groups opposed to the immigration bill
have said in the past that employers would might stop hiring anyone who ''looked
foreign'' as a way of avoiding fines for hiring an illegal alien.

Mr. Rodino had proposed two programs to aid fruit and vegetable growers. One
would expand an existing program for the admission of temporary foreign workers;
the other would allow growers to continue hiring a limited number of illegal
aliens in a three-year transition period after the bill became law.

Simpson Open to Compromise

The sponsor of the Senate bill, Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, strongly
hinted this week that he was open to compromise with Mr. Rodino.

''We've always been very sweet, kind and malleable,'' he said when asked about
potential differences between his bill and the House measure.

Mr. Simpson's bill will come before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday.
It would delay legal status for illegal aliens until a Presidential commission
concluded that the sanctions against employers had curtailed the flow of illegal
aliens. It does not contain any special provisions to address the issue of
discrimination.

Additionally, Mr. Simpson's measure provides for only civil penalities against
employers of illegal aliens.

Despite these differences, lobbyists predicted that the gap could be bridged in
a House-Senate conference if the bills were passed in the two chambers.

This week the Senate Judiciary Committee has met twice to consider the measure
and has made little progress. Mr. Simpson had hoped to bring the bill to the
floor before the Senate's August recess, a prospect that has dimmed.

Roger Conner of the Federation of Americans for Immigration Reform, a group
seeking tighter controls on immigration, said of the Rodino bill: ''This bill
represents a decision by Peter Rodino which says he clearly wants to see a bill
passed. This bill can be described as a strategic document because it is within
range of what Simpson has proposed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 26, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Change Rejected in Aliens Bill

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25


The Senate Judiciary Committee today turned back an attempt to expand a proposed
amnesty program for illegal aliens.

By a vote of 8 to 6, the committee defeated an amendment proposed by Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to a comprehensive immigration
bill. The committee also rejected attempts to delete or alter the bill's
provisions for a program that would admit temporary foreign workers to harvest
crops.

The committee scheduled a meeting next Tuesday to complete action on the
measure, which is sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming.
Mr. Simpson said today that he hoped to bring his bill to the floor this fall.

Meanwhile, Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, today
introduced an immigration bill in the House. The bill's co-sponsor,
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, announced that hearings
before a subcommittee of the House Judicary Committee would be held in
September.

Mr. Simpson's bill would subject employers who knowlingly hired illegal aliens
to fines. It would set up a Presidential commission that would grant legal
status to illegal aliens who entered this country before Jan. 1, 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 31, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

PANEL APPROVES IMMIGRATION BILL BUT ACCEPTS 2 KEY AMENDMENTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30


The Senate Judiciary Committee today approved a comprehensive immigration bill
that would offer legal status to aliens without official papers within three
years and establish criminal penalties for employers who repeatedly hired
illegal aliens.

The bill was approved by a vote of 12 to 4, with 10 Republicans and 2 Democrats
supporting it. The opponents, all Democrats, were Dennis DeConcini of Arizona,
Howell Heflin of Alabama, Paul Simon of Illinois and Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts.

The bill's chief sponsor, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, said
the prospects were ''quite good'' that it was be approved by both houses of
Congress, in part because Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, had introduced a companion bill. The full Senate is
expected to take up the measure in September, after a monthlong recess.

Previous Bill Died

Legislation on immigration died at the end of the last Congress after the House
and Senate failed to reconcile their differences in their versions of the bill.

Today, in a display of bipartisan cooperation, Mr. Simpson accepted two major
amendments proposed by Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio. One of
the amendments would guarantee legal status to those who entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1980 and have lived in the country continuously.

Mr. Simpson's bill would have established an amnesty program only if a Federal
commission certified that improved law enforcement had curtailed illegal
immigration. Mr. Metzenbaum said he was concerned that ''the commission may
never get around to making the necessary certification.''

Under the amendment approved today, the legalization program could begin as soon
as nine months after enactment of the bill and no later than three years
afterward. The nine-month period is designed to give the Government, church
groups and social agencies time to prepare for the program.

Pattern of Violations

The other amendment accepted would establish a criminal penalty for an employer
who hired illegal aliens after once being found to have engaged in ''a pattern
or practice'' of hiring workers living in the United States illegally. The
maximum criminal penalty would be six months in prison and a $3,000 fine for
each illegal alien hired by the employer.

The bill introduced by Mr. Simpson last May authorized civil penalties but not
criminal penalties.

In the bill approved today, on a first offense the employer would be subject to
a civil penalty of $100 to $2,000 for each illegal alien. On a second offense,
the civil penalty would range from $2,000 to $5,000 for each illegal alien.

Then if a pattern or practice of violations was found, the employer would be
subject to a civil penalty of $3,000 to $10,000 for each illegal alien.

The criminal penalty would apply only to an employer who had already been cited
for ''a pattern or practice of violations'' under the procedures for civil
penalties.

Mr. Metzenbaum said the criminal penalties were designed to punish ''hard-core
violators, who commit the worst and most egregious violations.''

Senator Metzenbaum, who has not played a prominent role on immigration
legislation before this year, said he was motivated by concern that undocumented
foreigners take jobs from Americans, especially at the lower end of the wage
scale and that the aliens are exploited by employers. While not perfect, he
said, ''This bill is better than no bill at all.''

Groups React to Changes

Samuel A. Roth, a spokesman for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States,
said that the business organization still supported the Simpson bill. But in
view of the amendments, he said, ''We'll have to look at it again.''

In previous years, the Chamber objected to provisions that required employers to
ask all job applicants for documents to verify that they were citizens or were
authorized to work in the United States. That procedure is optional under the
bill approved today.

Hispanic-American groups continue to oppose the bill, and representatives of
such groups said that once Congress passed a bill illegal aliens would be
''indentured servants'' until the start of the legalization program. In that
period, employers would be forbidden to hire illegal aliens, but could continue
employing those already on the payroll. Thus, the groups say, the aliens would
increase their risk of being expelled from the country if they tried to change
jobs.

Richard P. Fajardo, an attorney with the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said the legalization program would be ''a cruel joke'' for
many workers.

However, Mr. Simpson said that they were already subject to exploitation and
that ''nothing could be worse than the status quo.''

The Simpson bill would establish an expedited procedure for farmers to bring
aliens into the United States for temporary work in harvesting crops. The bill
does not limit the number of such foreign workers, but several senators said
they would propose a limit when the bill reaches the full Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 18, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE, IN REVERSAL, VOTES FOR ALIEN FARM WORKERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17


The Senate voted today to establish a new Government program under which farmers
could bring up to 350,000 aliens into the United States to harvest perishable
fruit and vegetables.

The proposal was adopted by a vote of 51 to 44 as an amendment to a
comprehensive bill designed to curtail illegal immigration. The Senate last week
rejected a similar amendment by a vote of 50 to 48.

The two proposals differed in one significant way: The amendment adopted today
set an explicit limit on the number of temporary foreign workers who could be
admitted under the program at any one time.

Approval of the farm worker program complicates the outlook for passage of the
bill because many people who support the overall legislation are bitterly
opposed to the admission of thousands of alien workers, who help in the harvest
of fruit and vegetables that spoil if not picked at the proper time.

Both amendments on alien workers were offered by Senator Pete Wilson, Republican
of California, who said his state produced nearly half of the nation's
perishable fruit and vegetables. With the ceiling of 350,000 workers, Mr. Wilson
said, the bill would not contain ''an open-ended authorization for seasonal
workers.''

Nevertheless, Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, opposing the
Wilson amendment, said it would create ''a massive migrant foreign worker
program'' and would take jobs away from Americans. The amendment, he said, was
evidence of ''the power of big agriculture.''

Mr. Metzenbaum said that more than 350,000 foreign workers might come into the
United States in the course of a year because the limit would apply to the
number of visas that could be issued ''at any given time.'' Some workers could
return to their countries and others replace them over the course of a year.

However, Mr. Wilson said he did not expect many more workers in any 12-month
period. The amendment provides that after three years' experience with the new
program, the Attoney General could set a new ceiling, using criteria described
in the legislation. He would take into consideration ''the historical employment
needs of agricultural employers and the availability of able, willing and
qualified domestic labor.''

Five senators who voted to reject the Wilson amendment last Thursday voted for
it today. They were Richard G. Lugar and Dan Quayle of Indiana, Warren Rudman of
New Hampshire and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, all Republicans, and Donald W.
Riegle Jr., Democrat of Michigan. In addition, several senators who were present
last Thursday did not vote today.

House Backed Similar Plan

The Wilson proposal is similar to one adopted last year in the House of
Representatives by a vote of 228 to 172.

The bill would prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens and would offer
legal status to illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1,
1980, and had lived here continuously since then. The bill would bring aboutthe
most sweeping change in immigration laws in at least two decades.

A generally similar bill was approved last year in the House of Representatives
by a vote of 216 to 211. But it died in a conference committee when negotiators
from the House and the Senate failed to resolve all differences between the
House bill and one passed in 1983 in the Senate by a vote of 76 to 18. A similar
measure is again pending before the House Judiciary Committee.

Members of Congress said it was difficult to predict whether a comprehensive
immigration bill would become law.

Under the new Senate bill, sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, employers would be subject to civil penalties of $100 to $2,000 for
each illegal alien they hired. If there was a ''pattern or practice'' of
violations, the employer would be subject to a penalty of $3,000 to $10,000 for
each illegal alien hired.

The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that under the Senate bill,
952,000 illegal aliens would be eligible for legal status and 570,000 would
apply and be accepted.

The House bill would offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1982. Under this provision, the budget office estimated,
2.2 million illegal aliens would be eligible for legal status and 1.4 million
would successfully apply.

By a vote of 74 to 22, the Senate today approved an amendment that would require
the Federal Government to reimburse states for the cost of incarcerating illegal
aliens and certain Cubans who had been convicted of felonies under state law.
The amendment was offered by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York,
who said there were at least 5,000 illegal aliens and Cubans now being held in
state prisons.

D'Amato Offered Amendment

The proposal covers the cost of detaining Cubans who came to the United States
by sea from the Cuban port of Mariel in 1980.

Aides to Mr. D'Amato said his proposal could provide as much as $20 million a
year to New York, since the state is holding a total of 850 to 1,000 illegal
aliens and Cubans who came to the United States in the 1980 boatflift from
Mariel, at an annual cost of $20,000 a year for each prisoner.

The Senate today rejected, 66 to 30, a proposal by Senator Paul Simon, Democrat
of Illinois, that would prevent the Government from denying entry to aliens on
ideological grounds. His amendment proposed that no alien could be denied a
temporary visa ''because of his or her lawful political beliefs, activities or
associations.''

By another vote of 66 to 30, the Senate today rejected a proposal that would
deny Government loans to Mexico if it continued to allow access to its ports by
Soviet naval vessels capable of delivering nuclear weapons. Senator Steven D.
Symms, Republican of Idaho, proposed the amendment.

The Reagan Administration generally supports the Senate bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Sen. Alan Simpson, Edward M. Kennedy and Richard Day
(NYT/George Tames) (page B7)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Undocumented Aliens Don't Take Jobs Away

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 426 words


To the Editor:

''The Simpson-Nobody Bill'' (editorial, May 24), supporting Senator Alan
Simpson's new immigration-reform bill, indicates a lack of sensitivity to the
illegal-immigration situation in the southwestern United States. Like the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill, the new bill is blatantly discriminatory.

Senator Simpson's bill proposes civil sanctions for employers who hire
undocumented aliens. Such penalties would have devastating effects on the civil
rights of all persons of Hispanic descent. If the Simpson bill becomes law,
employers will certainly think twice about hiring illegal aliens. They will also
think twice about hiring Hispanic-looking or Spanish-surnamed U.S. citizens.

Senator Simpson and many others see illegal-alien traffic as a threat to U.S.
territorial sovereignty. A sovereign nation must protect its borders, but a
guest-worker program such as exists in Switzerland and many other industrial
democracies, would serve this purpose much better than the Simpson bill.

Although Congress would have to work out the details of guest-worker
legislation, such a law would grant legal status to those who cross the border
to work and would continue to provide the inexpensive labor force on which many
Southwest businesses depend. Legal status would end the hardships that illegal
aliens must endure even before they get to the United States; it would also
eliminate the ''coyotes,'' guides who smuggle aliens across the border for
exorbitant fees.

Every night, hundreds of illegal aliens enter San Diego from the poorest part of
Tijuana, a neighborhood known (ironically) as Colonia Libertad. Many are rural
people who have left their families and come thousands of miles to the unpaved
streets of this fetid slum on foot, by hitchhiking or by jumping freight trains.
These desperate souls are known in the local jargon as ''pollos'' (chickens).
Every year thousands of them are robbed, raped, even murdered in the desolate
canyons of San Diego County. Undocumented aliens do not take jobs from U.S.
workers. Most speak little or no English and can therefore work only at the most
menial jobs (dishwashers, agricultural workers). Lately, there has been an
outcry in this country over the illegal-alien ''problem,'' yet the very
existence of such a problem is open to debate. How many of the Americans who are
calling on their Congressmen to do something to prevent illegal aliens from
crossing the border would be willing to wash dishes or clean stables for $1 an
hour?

WILLIAM ANDREW LAURENCE

San Diego, May 25, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 13, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE KILLS PLAN ON ALEN WORKERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12


The Senate today narrowly rejected a proposal to admit thousands of aliens to
the United States as temporary farm laborers.

The vote was 50 to 48, with 33 Republicans and 15 Democrats supporting the
program. It was proposed by Senator Pete Wilson as the Senate began a second day
of debate on a comprehensive bill aimed at curbing illegal immigration.

The California Republican had argued that without his amendment, the bill would
''savage an important American industry,'' the producers of perishable fruit and
vegetables, many of whom rely on illegal aliens to pick crops.

The immigration bill, sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, would
prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens. Employers would be subject to
civil penalties of $100 to $2,000 for each illegal alien they hired. If there
was a ''pattern or practice'' of violations, the employer would be subject to a
penalty of $3,000 to $10,000 for each illegal alien hired.

Measure Called Unnecessary

Senator Wilson said the bill would cut off the supply of alien workers that
farmers need, on short notice, to harvest their crops. ''This bill,'' he said,
''would force the grower to watch his crop slowly but irrevocably rot in the
fields or on the trees if warm weather hastens the ripening process by a day or
a week. These crops are ripe for harvest when they are ripe, not when the
Secretary of Labor says they are ripe.''

Under a provision of the Simpson bill, farmers could apply to the Labor
Department to approve the entry of foreign workers, and the department would
establish expedited procedures to review appeals in emergencies. Mr. Simpson,
who is also a Republican, said this and other special provisions in his bill
made Mr. Wilson's amendment unnecessary.

More than 200 perishable commodities are grown in the United States, according
to the California Senator, and he estimated their market value at $23 billion.
Under his proposal, foreign agricultural workers would be admitted to a specific
region of the country for up to nine months a year, and they would be free to
move from one grower to another within that region.

Wages to Be Held in Trust

Twenty percent of the foreign workers' gross wages would be deposited in a trust
fund and distributed to the workers, through a United States consulate, only
after they returned home.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Mr. Wilson's proposal
resembled ''the pass laws of South Africa'' because it would restrict foreign
workers to a specific region of the United States. ''How will the Attorney
General know whether the workers are in the right district?'' Mr. Kennedy asked.

Mr. Wilson rejected the comparison as ''invidious.'' The pass laws of South
Africa, he said, apply to South Africans, not to illegal aliens.

The Wilson proposal is similar to one adopted last year in the House of
Representatives by a vote of 228 to 172. The chief proponents in the House were
Representatves Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California, and Sid Morrison, a
Washington State Republican.

The Reagan Administration, internally divided over the Wilson amendment, today
urged the Senate to ''establish a self-financed, limited seasonal worker program
which would provide field harvest labor for perishable commodities.'' The
official statement of Administration policy did not explicitly endorse the
Wilson amendment.

Labor Dept. Opposes Idea

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said in an
interview just off the Senate floor that ''we are not supporting'' the Wilson
amendment. He said the Administration hoped that farmers, labor unions and
others could reach a compromise on the issue.

The Agriculture Department, like farmers in the West and Southwest, supported a
temporary worker program like the one proposed by Mr. Wilson. The Labor
Department, like many labor unions, opposed it on the ground that it could
undermine the wages and working conditions of Americans.

Mr. Wilson said that under his proposal, farmers would have to pay prevailing
wages and provide housing or a housing allowance, as well as workers'
compensation or similar insurance, to foreign agricultural workers. With these
guarantees, Mr. Wilson said, the working conditions for many aliens would be
substantially improved.

Senator Simpson said Senator Wilson's proposal would ''keep alive the status
quo'' under which illegal aliens worked at agricultural jobs. ''I am certain we
could solve the problem of illegal immigration by declaring that everyone who
crosses our borders at any time is here legally,'' Mr. Simpson said, ''but that
is not my idea of immigration reform.''

Mr. Simpson noted that under his bill, farmers would be given three years longer
than other employers to end the hiring of illegal aliens. ''I honestly don't
know what more we could have done to meet the needs of Western growers,
including those with perishable crops,'' he said. ''Nothing I have ever done is
enough'' for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 29, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF THE ILLEGAL ALIEN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When the Senate took up a comprehensive bill to curtail illegal immigration
earlier this month, the growers of fruits and vegetables once again demonstrated
their considerable political power.

Over the objections of the bill's chief sponsor, Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, the Senate accepted a proposal, strongly backed by the growers, for a
special program to bring as many as 350,000 aliens into the United States for
seasonal farm work.

Opponents of the program said it undermined the purpose of the bill, which was
to tighten the borders of the United States. But Senator Pete Wilson, Republican
of California, argued that the program would legalize the status of many foreign
workers and thereby protect them from exploitation. And without it, he said,
crops would rot in the fields because farmers could not hire enough Americans to
do the harvesting.

The growers' lobby, which represents such groups as the California Grape and
Tree Fruit League, the International Apple Institute, the Raisin Bargaining
Association and the Washington Asparagus Growers Association, has excellent
connections with the Agriculture Department. Chief among its friends is Patrick
H. Quinn, who, as executive vice president of the National Council of
Agricultural Employers, used to lobby for some of the growers.

Mr. Quinn is now an aide to Deputy Secretary of Agriculture John R. Norton 3d.
In disputes with the Labor Department over immigration policy, the Agriculture
Department almost always sides with the farmers. The Wilson proposal, Mr. Quinn
said, is ''a prudent safety valve'' to meet the farmers' expected need for
foreign workers if Congress prohibits them from hiring illegal aliens.

Under the Simpson bill, employers would be subject to civil penalties of $100 to
$2,000 for each illegal alien they hired. The penalties would start six months
after the bill became law. But under a special section of the legislation,
farmers would have three years to stop their use of illegal aliens. The growers
could use their normal complement of illegal alien workers in the first year, 67
percent the second year and 33 percent the third year.

Advocates of immigration-law changes said the need for new controls was
highlighted last week by the disclosure that at least 49 bodies had been found
in the Arizona desert since 1982. Law-enforcement officials said the victims
were believed to be aliens who had died in the trackless waste while seeking
work in the United States. A local union said many of the Mexican workers,
driven by economic desperation at home, were hoping to harvest lemons and grapes
in this country.

Many Hurdles Ahead

The immigration bill faces many hurdles before it can become law. Its passage
depends, in part, on questions to which there is no clear answer at this time:
Will President Reagan campaign for the bill, as he has stumped for his tax
proposals? Mr. Reagan has issued numerous statements of support for a
comprehensive immigration bill, but the White House has also raised formidable
objections to any measure that deviates from the President's specifications.

Another question is whether Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New
Jersey, will push the legislation. Mr. Rodino, the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, is nearing the end of a long career in Congress. He might like to
have his name preserved in a statute of the type Congress passes once in a
generation, but aides say he would resist any bill that violates the liberal
principles for which he has fought.

Mr. Rodino has said, for example, that he would oppose a measure likely to
increase employment discrimination against legal immigrants and refugees.

Mr. Rodino also said he was ''deeply disappointed'' by the Senate's approval of
a new foreign worker program because he believed it could jeopardize the wages,
working conditions and job opportunities of American farm workers.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, is trying to work out a
compromise on the agricultural provisions of the bill. Those provisions, he
said, ''will make or break'' the legislation. The House Judiciary Committee may
approve an immigration bill this year, but it is not expected to reach the floor
before next spring.

Representative Leon E. Panetta, a California Democrat who led the fight for the
foreign worker program in floor debate last year, said the bill had a 60 percent
chance of becoming law if it reached the House floor this year. But he estimated
its chances at only 40 percent if a vote is delayed till 1985. ''Once you put it
into the election year,'' he said, ''all hell breaks loose.''

Many former Government officials, business executives and labor leaders have
signed letters endorsing the bill. Christopher J. Matthews, a spokesman for
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said, however, that the process of
organizing coalitions of support had been ''too antiseptic,'' too dispassionate.
By contrast, Hispanic opponents of the bill denounce it with passionate fury
because they believe it would stigmatize them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of migrant workers picking spinach on a farm in Gregory, Mich.
NYT/Andrew Sachs)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 23, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN'S ADVISERS SAY BILL ON ALIENS CAN HURT ECONOMY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22


President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers warns in a new report that
proposals to punish employers of illegal aliens would have adverse effects on
the nation's economy.

Imposing sanctions on employers for hiring illegal aliens would reduce the
national output of goods and services and would impose a new ''labor market
tax'' on employers, the council says in a confidential draft of its 1986 report,
to be submitted to Congress in early February.

The report undermines the rationale for a comprehensive immigration bill
designed to curtail the influx of illegal aliens by imposing penalties on
employers who hire them. In the past, the Reagan Administration has supported
such bills, including one passsed by the Senate last September and awaiting
action in the House, 'Restrictions Are Costly'

But the Council of Economic Advisers said in its draft report that
''restrictions on immigration, like restrictions on trade, are costly'' to
employers and to the economy as a whole.

The report estimated that it would cost employers $1.6 billion to $2.6 billion a
year to screen job applicants and weed out illegal aliens. The council did not
give the basis for this estimate, which it called conservative.

The draft report, obtained today from a White House official, said there was no
firm evidence that illegal aliens displaced native-born workers from jobs in the
United States. The number of jobs is not fixed, the report said, adding that
alien workers contributed to an overall economic expansion whose benefits were
''widely diffused,'' in the form of lower prices, new job opportunities and
higher profits for investors.

Output Said to Be Increased

The report concluded that immigration to the United States increased total
employment and output in this country as well as the per-capita income of the
native-born population. Conversely, it said, employer sanctions ''would reduce
employment and output.''

The study generally does not distinguish between legal and illegal aliens in
assessing their effects on the economy. It is nearly impossible to draw such
distinctions from the available evidence, which suggests that the two groups
affect labor markets in similar ways, the report said.

The main function of the Council of Economic Advisers, established in 1946, is
to advise the President on economic developments.

Members of Congress have not yet received or read the report, so it is difficult
to gauge its impact. However, the document appears likely to impede progress on
the immigration bill, which is awaiting action in the House Judiciary Committee.
The bill is sponsored by Representatives Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey and
Romano L. Mazzoli of Kentucky, both Democrats. The Senate bill is sponsored by
Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming.

The report also seems certain to strengthen the hand of critics of the
legislation, including Hispanic groups and farmers who have resisted tighter
controls on immigration.

Albert R. Brashear, a White House spokesman, declined to comment on the report.
''We don't generally comment on documents before they are released,'' he said.

Other Administration officials said the report reflected the views of Beryl W.
Sprinkel, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. Confidential minutes of
Domestic Policy Council meetings over the last six months show that Mr. Sprinkel
has expressed similar views in that forum, challenging the ''fundamental
premises'' of the Senate and House bills. But to date no member of the Reagan
Administration has publicly expressed such doubts.

The Domestic Policy Council is an advisory body composed of Cabinet officers.

The draft report said that Americans who competed directly with immigrant labor
might experience ''job losses or wage reductions.'' Such losses, although ''more
visible than the economic gains,'' are outweighed by the overall increase in
national output, which ''increases the per capita income of the native-born U.S.
population,'' the report said. In addition, it said, ''The work of immigrants
reduces the prices of domestically produced goods.''

Farmers Helped by Aliens

The presence of low-skilled foreign workers in the United States ''enables
domestic business enterprises to produce goods profitably that would not
otherwise have been produced here,'' the report said.

For example, it said the availability of alien workers had helped American
farmers compete with their counterparts in other countries. Restricting the
supply of alien farm labor would ''increase the costs of farm production,'' it
said.

In addition, the report said aliens often helped Americans perform their work
more efficiently. ''A scientist is more productive if there are assistants to
wash the test tubes and type manuscripts,'' it said. ''A worker with family
responsibilities is more productive if there are others in the household to help
with child care.''

The House bill would require employers to ask all job applicants for
identification documents to verify that they were United States citizens or
aliens authorized to work in this country. Employers would be subject to civil
penalties of $1,000 to $5,000 for each illegal alien hired. The Senate bill also
provides for civil penalties.

Cost to Employers Assailed

The economic report said: ''The imposition of screening and record-keeping
obligations, along with penalties for noncompliance, imposes costs on employers
and employment agencies. These costs are the equivalent of a labor market tax.
Such a tax falls on both legal and illegal workers. The most adverse employment
effects are on workers with-low skill levels, particularly on youths and
minorities.''

''To the extent that sanctions are effective in barring illegal aliens from
employment, aggregate income and output will also be reduced,'' the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 28, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SWEET LAND OF MULTIPLE VISIONS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27


Whenever Congress debates immigration, the oratory almost always evokes
different visions of America, its past and its future.

For example, several themes dominated the recent debate leading up to the
69-to-30 vote by which the Senate passed a comprehensive bill to curtail illegal
immigration. The vision was at once dark and uplifting, hopeful and pessimistic.

The debate started with talk of an America that had lost control of its borders.
A silent invasion of aliens was, according to this view, threatening the
nation's sovereignty.

''The United States cannot perform the most basic function of a sovereign
nation, which is to control the entry of aliens across its borders,'' said
Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the sponsor of the bill.
''Immigration to the United States is out of control.''

In contrast to this was a vision of America as ''a nation of immigrants.'' John
F. Kennedy used that phrase as the title of a book celebrating the contributions
of immigrants, and his brother, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, has been a foremost
defender of a generous, nondiscriminatory immigration policy. ''Whenever we have
had provisions in the law that could be used in a discriminatory way in the area
of immigration,'' Senator Kennedy said, ''they have been'' used in that manner.

The Simpson bill, adopted Sept. 19, goes now to the House, which passed a
similar measure last year by a vote of 216 to 211. The Simpson bill would have
authorized the Attorney General to charge aliens for the cost of services
provided at the border, but Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, persuaded
his colleagues to eliminate that provision. The collection of such fees, he
said, would be ''like the American Government holding a tin cup at the border''
and telling foreigners to deposit a quarter.

''We have a history in America of being an open country,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''We
receive travelers, we receive visitors, we receive citizens, and we receive
aliens into the United States to travel, visit or do whatever they may wish. I
think it is a policy we should continue.''

Senator James A. McClure, Republican of Idaho, echoed this theme even while
proposing an amendment to express the sense of the Senate that English is ''the
official language'' of the United States. ''As a nation of immigrants,'' he
said, ''we have had to forge our common commitment to freedom from many
backgrounds, philosophies and ideals.''

Mr. McClure said he was not trying to suppress ethnic and linguistic
dif-ferences. But without a knowledge of the English language, he said,
immigrants could not fill out job applications or fully enjoy the opportunities
America offers.

Senator Paula Hawkins, Republican of Florida, depicted a nation of taxpayers
being cheated by illegal aliens who obtained welfare, food stamps, Medicaid and
other benefits. A person who has broken United States immigration laws should
not have access to Government benefits, Mrs. Hawkins said. ''We have an
obligation first to the people of the United States, the people who we were
elected to represent,'' she declared.

Senator Mark O. Hatfield, Republican of Oregon, expressed concern that ''the
relentless march of technology,'' combined with its use to verify immigration
status of people in the United States, could lead to ''a national identification
card system.''

Liberals and conservatives who followed their convictions to a logical
conclusion found themselves in unusual agreement on certain questions related to
immigration. Conservatives committed to a free market resist regulation that
interferes with the flow of goods and services and workers across the border.
For different reasons, some liberals oppose the effort to restrict immigration,
especially if they see any hint of racial discrimination in it. They see open
borders as a corollary of an open society.

Conservatives, led by Senator McClure, joined liberals such as Alan Cranston,
Democrat of California, in supporting a proposal that would require Federal
law-enforcement officers to obtain a warrant before searching open fields for
illegal aliens. Such searches, they said, disrupt the farmers' business and
violate the workers' civil liberties.

Mr. McClure said immigration officers driving down a road would stop, enter a
field and check the identity of workers who had dark skin but if the workers had
white skin would ''just drive on.''

The most zealous conservatives and liberals generally agreed that aliens in this
country had, in effect, a right to work and that the Government should not
interfere with it. Senator Steven D. Symms of Idaho, a conservative Republican,
supported an unsuccessful proposal by Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, a liberal
Democrat, that would have made it easier for illegal aliens to work in the
United States while they were applying for legal status.

One of the paradoxes of the debate is that a proposal to admit thousands of
aliens as temporary farm workers, under a new Government program, seemed to stir
more passion than did the presence of millions of illegal aliens already in this
country.

Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California, said growers of perishable fruit
and vegetables needed the aliens for their labor. He painted a picture of
produce rotting in the fields without farmhands to harvest it, and he said the
aliens would be less subject to exploitation if their status was legal.

Critics complained that under his proposal, aliens would not be welcomed fully
into American society, the body politic or the nation at large. Senator Howard
M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, warned that foreign workers would end up
''sleeping in ditches and plastic bags,'' because ''there are not that many
Hilton hotels or Sheraton hotels'' in the rural areas where migrants toil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 22, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

The Immigration Mess (Both of Them)

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 479 words


When it comes to aliens, Americans are making a mess of both law and decency, as
has just been manifested in quick succession by front-page stories in The Times.

Mess No. 1 concerns the Big Wink, which for years has been about the only
Federal policy toward aliens. Yes, it is nominally illegal for undocumented
aliens to come to this country - but as long as employers have wanted their
labor, no one has gotten heavy about enforcing the law.

Now, Washington is starting to crack down on lawyers and others who facilitate
fraudulent entry of illegals. That's a welcome sign of revitalization in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. So is the increase in alien
apprehensions, up 35 percent in two years. Yet these remain marginal initiatives
as long as the job magnets pull in the alien tide.

Mess No. 2 is illustrated by Mayor Koch's sensible, decent memo instructing New
York City employees not to turn in illegal aliens unless they are somehow
involved in crime. On the surface, that sounds like advocating lawlessness. But
it is sensible and decent because it assails the lawlessness of the Big Wink.

America has implicitly welcomed millions of illegal aliens. But once here, they
so fear discovery and deportation that many shrink from calling the police even
after a rape or from going to the hospital even when mortally ill. Social
justice for these people urges that they get basic services. Sound government
for the rest of society dictates that crime and disease be contained. Economic
fairness argues that Washington pay its share for the consequences of its
permissive policy.

These two messes seem contradictory: enforce vs. don't enforce. But the
contradiction is bridged by some propositions that reasonable citizens can agree
to:

* Illegal aliens should not be encouraged to sneak into the country.

* If they nonetheless get in, it is in the common good for them to get minimal
services, like police, with the costs fairly apportioned.

* If, having been nominally encouraged to beat the system, they do so for a long
time, even a strict society should let them stay, under some statute of
limitations. This is not Parcheesi, in which players can be captured and sent
home even at the last minute. These are real, anguished lives, and under present
law the only aliens who can stay are those who have arrived before June 30,
1948.

All three purposes can be achieved by the Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli reform bill
pending in Congress. It would forbid employers to hire illegals, thus tidying up
the law enforcement mess. It would legalize aliens who have been here for
several years, alleviating the decency mess. The bill has already passed the
Senate; the House Judiciary Committee has just finished hearings. Reasonable
people can now turn to the full House and ask whether, instead of winking yet
again, it will stare the problem down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AID TO ALIENS SAID TO SPUR ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 22


Federal officials say a spreading campaign by religious groups to designate
American cities as sanctuaries for illegal aliens has stimulated a new flow of
immigrants from Central America.

By a 5-to-2 vote of the City Council, Sacramento, Calif., last week became the
12th city in the nation to declare itself a sanctuary for Central American
aliens. San Francisco's Board of Supervisors is to consider a similar
declaration Monday.

The sanctuary designations usually call on the police and other city employees
to decline to aid Federal immigration agents or otherwise interfere in the lives
of illegal aliens from strife-torn El Salvador and Guatemala.

Immigration agents say the declarations carry no weight regarding the status of
illegal aliens. But they say intelligence reports show that news of the cities'
actions is being spread widely in Central America, encouraging more and more
immigrants to come illegally to the United States with a mistaken expectation
that they will not be prosecuted or deported if caught.

The campaign to persuade cities to declare themselves sanctuaries for immigrants
from Central American countries is being led by a coalition of Protestant, Roman
Catholic and Jewish leaders.

They argue that the United States has a tradition of taking in refugees from
countries at war and that it is inhumane and inconsistent with Federal and
international law to deport aliens to countries where they may face oppression
or hostilities.

''In our view, sending these people back to El Salvador or to Guatemala is the
same thing as putting Jews on a boxcar bound for Dachau,'' said the Rev. Peter
J. Sammon, pastor of St. Teresa's Roman Catholic Church here, a leader of the
sanctuary movement.

''We claim what we are doing is based not only on religious conviction but the
deepest values of our United States traditions of being a place of refuge, a
place to where persecuted people can come,'' he said.

But the Reagan Administration maintains that the vast majority of immigrants who
are entering this country illegally from Central America are not fleeing
oppression or war but are refugees seeking a better life in the United States,
where many ultimately will compete with citizens for jobs.

''They want to come to the Promised Land, they want the good life,'' said David
Ilchert, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's northern
California office. If they were seeking merely to escape life-threatening war or
oppression, Mr. Ilchert said, the immigrants would stop their trek as soon as
they entered Mexico or another country.

''These resolutions,'' Mr. Ilchert said of the sanctuary declarations, ''are
tragically sending out false hope to these people, that if you can get to this
city or that city, it's going to be safe. Well, it's not safe.'' If the
sanctuary movement continues to spread, Harold Ezell, the agency's Western
regional director, it ''is going to damage the future of this nation.''

Whatever the respective merits of their arguments, people on both sides in the
dispute agree that the spreading sanctuary movement was having the effect of
stimulating more migration from El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua and other
Central American countries. #12 Cities Back Movement Immigration officials say
spot checks by the Border Patrol indicate more are arriving in the United
States, although more complete data will not be available until early next year.

While the language contained in their declarations differ, the following cities
have given formal support to the sanctuary movement in one form or another this
year:

Berkeley, Calif. Burlington, Vt. Cambridge, Mass.

Chicago

Ithaca, N.Y.

Los Angeles

Madison, Wis. Olympia, Wash. Sacramento, Calif.

St. Paul

Takoma Park, Md. West Hollywood, Calif. In New York, Mayor Koch signed a
memorandum instructing department heads not to report refugees to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service unless they were suspected of criminal
activity unrelated to their status as illegal aliens.

Many San Francisco officials expect passage of the resolution declaring it a
''city of refuge'' for Salvadorans and Guatemalans. No one knows how many
Salvadorans now live in this country illegally, although many experts place the
number at about 600,000, including 50,000 or more here.

Action Began in Southwest

The effort to persuade cities to designate themselves as sanctuaries for illegal
aliens is the latest phase of a movement that took root in the Southwest about
four years ago.

At that time, small groups of Protestant and Roman Catholic clerics and lay
workers began acknowledging to reporters that they had been helping Salvadorans
to enter this country illegally and to escape Federal agents.

The Reagan Administration, the religious workers contended, was ignoring
statutes requiring it to grant asylum to political refugees.

Eleven church workers are now on trial in Tuscon, Ariz., on charges that they
conspired to smuggle illegal aliens into the country.

Immigration officials say that the cities' sanctuary declarations issued so far
have had little practical effect on their enforcement of immigration laws.

But if the declarations continue to attract more and more Central Americans, Mr.
Ilchert said they will bring not only mounting competition for jobs,
''especially starter jobs that our unemployed ghetto youth could get,'' but add
to cities' costs for welfare, public hospitals, schools and other services.

Rise in Crime Feared

Noting that many Salvadorans were arrested in California on charges ranging from
hit-and-run driving to murder, he asserted that many in the new wave of illegal
aliens would turn to crime. ''Without the cooperation of the police,'' he said,
''you'll get hardened criminals on the streets.''

Many proponents of the sanctuary declarations also concede that for now they
have more symbolic than practical value.

But they say they are hopeful that they will help spur Congress to pass pending
legislation, sponsored originally by Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of
Arizona, that would allow Salvadorans who entered the country illegally to
remain here for extended periods, at least until it is safe for them to return.

Father Sammon said that many clerics had not spoken up while blacks were
enslaved in this country, while Hitler was perpetrating the Holocaust and when
Japanese-Americans were interned in this country in World War II. ''We can't
remain silent this time,'' he said, and allow Central Americans ''to be sent
back to a land of terror.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 24, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

The President's Call on Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 572 words


Would the Reagan Administration be willing to create jobs for an additional 3
million or 4 million Americans a year? Hardly, not when its new budget proposes
cutting job programs. Then why does the Administration blandly acquiesce in
creating jobs here for 3 million or 4 million foreigners?

That's what's happening on the border. Earthquake and recession in Mexico have
swollen the tide of illegal aliens alarmingly. The Immigration Service expects
to catch 1.8 million illegals this year, up from 1.2 million last year, says
Commissioner Alan Nelson. This implies, according to the service's informal
''get-away ratio,'' that for every alien caught, two or three more enter
undetected - that is, 3.6 million or more this year.

What's to be done? ''The best deterrent to illegal immigration is to remove the
attraction of easy-to-obtain jobs,'' says the Commissioner. That's precisely the
purpose of the Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli reform bill. Illegals are now forbidden to
work here; the bill would for the first time forbid employers to hire them.

Mr. Nelson is certainly doing his part to help it become law. The Senate has
done its part, having passed the bill three times. Now the House, too, seems
warily willing. Though the bill died there in the closing minutes of two
straight sessions, elements of compromise are visible. The obstacle,
notwithstanding Mr. Nelson's constructive efforts inside the Administration, is
in the White House.

It's probably now or never for reform. Immigration issues present a constantly
moving target. People in the House wonder out loud if maybe Haitian refugees
should be sent back to Haiti, now that the Duvalier dictatorship has ended and
their well-founded fear of persecution is no longer well founded . . . Studded
in the illegal tide in the Southwest, the Border Patrol notices an increasing
number of Koreans, Indians and East Europeans being smuggled in among Mexican
farm workers.

If reform is to succeed, the House will have to move soon, and if the House is
to move, a canny old hand from New Jersey named Peter Rodino will have to push.
Should he, a 19-term Democrat, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, put his
reputation on the line for the immigration bill? Yes - if President Reagan gives
him his word of support.

Formally, the President favors the bill as strongly as his immigration
commissioner. Actually, maybe not. Reform has enemies in the White House,
concerned about any new spending, libertarian dogma or California growers. Mr.
Rodino surely remembers the truculence of the Office of Management and Budget
that helped sink the bill last year. He also knows that for months, he has been
assured he'd be getting a call from the President himself, assuring that
there'll be no last-minute obstructionism this year.

What's that quavering sound heard instead? An uncertain trumpet; maybe even a
mocking raspberry. The President's Council of Economic Advisers recently
circulated a paper challenging the key element of the reform bill. Horrors! a
White House spokesman dutifully exclaimed; the paper was quickly sanitized, but
not before a subtle signal had been sent.

Now another month has gone by and still no word from the President. In that
month, if the Immigration Service calculates correctly, 150,000 more illegal
aliens have been caught trying to enter the country - and another 300,000 were
not caught. If Mr. Reagan cares, he'll pick up the phone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 17, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

146 Aliens Found in House

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 68 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, April 16


Officers raiding a two-bedroom house Monday found 146 illegal aliens waiting for
smugglers to drive them to Los Angeles, said John Belluardo, spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. A van drove up with more aliens as the
arrests were made. In all, 179 people were arrested. ''When you get into the
triple figures, you're talking big,'' Mr. Belluardo said of the number arrested.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BORDER PATROL IS TROUBLED BY ATTACKS ON AGENTS

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1459 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, May 18


The Border Patrol is alarmed over what appears to be a slow but steady rise in
violent attacks on its agents as they try to impede the flow of illegal
immigrants along the far western section of the United States-Mexican border.

A sense of tension has grown both in San Diego and in the sprawling Mexican city
of Tijuana 14 miles to the south, heightened by an agent's shooting of a
12-year-old Mexican on April 18 and by a shootout May 8 that killed an alien and
injured an agent.

The Border Patrol says the number of clashes in this section of the border has
been climbing in recent years, and Government officials have termed the current
situation a crisis. Other people, however, say that, in light of the large
numbers of aliens seeking to cross over, the rate of violence does not appear to
have worsened and that aggressiveness on the part of the Border Patrol is a
contributing factor.

Border Patrol officials say more assaults on agents occur here than in any other
region of the border. The officials attribute the violence to an increasingly
sophisticated and bold alien-smuggling apparatus in Tijuana confronting a Border
Patrol that has expanded its manpower under the Reagan Administration.

More Crossings in California

Furthermore, more illegal crossings are attempted at California than anywhere
else, with agents here accounting for more than a third of the 1.2 million
arrests of illegal immigrants nationwide last year, according to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, of which the patrol is a part.

In the San Diego sector of the boundary, between the Pacific Ocean and the
Colorado River, the patrol says assaults on its agents rose from 61 in the 1982
fiscal year to 78 in 1984, accounting for nearly three-fourths of the 105
assaults nationwide. From last Oct. 1 through this March there were 37 assaults.

The recent clashes that have attracted so much concern have not involved
tourists on either side of the border. A handbill picked up last week by the
American border authorities threatened that retaliation would start over the
weekend against ''North American males'' visiting Tijuana. But no problems
materialized, and the threat was considered by many to be a hoax.

The latest increase in border controversy comes as Senator Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, is preparing to introduce in Congress new legislation to
curb illegal immigration after a much-disputed measure died in Congress last
year. Mr. Simpson hopes to introduce the bill next week, an aide said.

Shooting Held as Justified

In the May 8 shootout, a Border Patrol agent was wounded and a Mexican alien was
killed in the border canyons where Mexicans cross into California.

But much of the tension has centered on the shooting of a 12-year-old Mexican
boy, Humberto Carrillo Estrada, by Edward Cole, a Border Patrol agent. The boy
was standing on Mexican territory with a group of Tijuana residents throwing
stones at two other agents. He is recovering in Tijuana.  The local District
Attorney made an official finding that the shooting was justified, acting after
the United States Attorney in San Diego said he had no jurisdiction in a
shooting across international boundaries. Both prosecutors' decisions have drawn
much criticism.

United States Representative Jim Bates, Democrat of San Diego, has introduced a
bill in Congress, at the District Attorney's request, that would have given the
United States Attorney jurisdiction in this case.

Tensions Called Serious

Mr. Bates said in an interview that he considered the border tensions the most
serious in 15 to 20 years. ''I don't recall when it has been as bad as it is
now,'' he said.

Harold Ezell, commissioner of the Immigration Service's western region, publicly
called the situation here a ''crisis.''

But Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the
University of California at San Diego, said the facts did not merit the alarm.

''No one has hard evidence of a trend,'' the professor said in an interview.
''You have more people in the Border Patrol confronting more aliens and
alien-smugglers, so you have more incidents. So much varies, depending on the
amount of attention the incidents get in the media.''

Holding Agents Accountable

Mexican-American activists in San Diego contend that the violence results in
large part from what they say is a lack of official and judicial restraints on
border agents' actions. They say the failure to prosecute Mr. Cole opens the way
to further abuses by the patrol.

In the streets of Tijuana in recent days some local Mexicans said they viewed
the exoneration of the agent as part of a move by the United States to punish
Mexico for not supporting American policy in Latin America.

The Carrillo incident has raised questions among critics about the conduct of
border agents and how they are held accountable. Mexican-Americans bitterly
contend that the lack of prosecution demonstrates the low value they say
American officials place on Mexican, and Mexican-American, lives.

If ''a Mexican officer had fired across the border and wounded an American, the
United States Marines would be invading Vera Cruz right now,'' asserted Herman
Baca, chairman of the Committee on Chicano Rights, a San Diego organization that
monitors what it charges is a pattern of Border Patrol brutality.

A Review 'by Default'

The organization has protested the decision of the San Diego District Attorney,
Edwin L. Miller Jr., not to prosecute Mr. Cole. An investigation of the case has
been started by the California Attorney General, John Van de Kamp.

In his report on the incident, Mr. Miller said he reviewed the shooting ''by
default,'' because the United States Attorney for San Diego, Peter Nunes, had no
statutory authority because the victim was not on American territory.

Peter Bowie, the chief assistant United States attorney, said in an interview
that issue was not that the Federal Government lacked jurisdiction but that the
local District Attorney having jurisdiction had concluded the facts did not
warrant prosecution.

According to Mr. Miller's report, the shooting occurred after two Border Patrol
agents pulled Eduardo Carrillo Estrada, Humberto's 14-year-old brother, from a
nine-foot border fence he was climbing to return to Mexico.

As the two agents tried to subdue Eduardo, striking him with a baton, the report
said, a group of Mexicans, including Humberto, began throwing ''large rocks''
and bottles over the fence at the agents. Mr. Cole arrived and, considering his
fellow agents under great threat, ''fired three times at the youth,'' Humberto,
''striking him once across the shoulder blades,'' the report said.

Previous Injuries Cited

Mr. Miller said previous stone-throwing incidents in the same area had seriously
injured Federal officers. He said it was impossible to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt that ''in Agent Cole's mind'' he had ''any course of action other than the
use of deadly force to repel a potentially lethal assault upon two fellow
agents.''

Mr. Cole has declined to be interviewed.

Mr. Miller questioned in the report whether ''it is prudent'' for border agents
''to pull from the fence a person attempting to scramble back into his own
country.''

John Belluardo, an Immigration Service spokesman in Los Angeles, said, ''That's
the D.A.'s interpretation of the incident,'' adding that Eduardo Carrillo ''was
on United States territory.''

In response to a question, Mr. Belluardo said he did not know why Mr. Cole had
fired specifically at Humberto Carrillo when there was ''a mob'' of
stone-throwers.

Request by Mexico

Mexico's consul general in San Diego, Javier Escobar y Cordova, said Mexican
laws did not allow prosecution of the agent because he was not on Mexican
territory. He said the United States, to his knowledge, had not responded to a
request by the Mexican Government that the agent be punished and damages paid.

The boy's mother is suing the Federal Government for $3 million damages.

The Border Patrol, meanwhile, is undergoing an across-the-board expansion. The
San Diego region has obtained authority to hire an additional 239 agents and
support staff, a 45 percent increase in its work force of about 600.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration Service in Washington, and local
officials said agents here had met with increasing violent attacks from armed
smugglers of aliens as well as from drug smugglers they sometimes confront.

Alan Eliason, chief patrol agent for the San Diego sector, said that of the 25
assaults that occurred in his area from January through mid-May, most were
committed by ''alien smugglers or violent-type aliens we are trying to take into
custody.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the view along fense that separates Tijuana, Mexico from the
U.S. (NYT/Miguel Cervantes Sahagun); Photo of Humberto Carrillo Estrada,
12-year-old Mexican, in hospital after being shot

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CHASING THE BAD PAPER AT THE BORDERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The popular image of illegal aliens entering the United States has them wading
across the Rio Grande or crossing the border hidden in the trunk of a car. But
many arrive by plane at American airports, where they present fraudulent
documents and may receive no more than a cursory inspection before losing
themselves in a land of 238 million people.

All in all, the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service says, it screened
310 million travelers last year and denied admission to nearly 600,000 aliens at
300 ports of entry, up from 522,000 in 1983. Many had fraudulent documents, but
the Government does not know how many. Under the immigration law, there are many
other grounds for keeping an alien out.

The immigration service has begun cracking down on the use of counterfeit
documents at airports and along the overland borders with Mexico and Canada in
response to what it sees as a growing problem of illegal immigration in general
and document fraud in particular. But officials say the art of forgery has made
such strides that spotting, say, a bogus American birth certificate or passport
is not easy, while counterfeit versions of documents from other countries are
even more difficult to detect.

''We have been left in the dust, in the dark ages,'' says Daniel J. Stephan, an
immigration inspector who is national coordinator of the I.N.S. Fraud Intercept
Task Force. In an effort to catch up, his agency in recent months has begun
training employees to use sophisticated document screening equipment. The agency
started acquiring the equipment in April 1984. Among other things, the equipment
helps inspectors spot alterations in a passport, such as the substitution of one
photograph for another or the revision of biographical data.

Each set of cameras and microscope costs about $4,000. Immigration officials say
they get a good return on that investment because it costs, on the average, more
than $2,000 to locate, detain and deport an illegal alien. In addition, they
say, by preventing the entry of illegal aliens, they save taxpayers money that
might otherwise be spent on food stamps, welfare and Medicaid.

Showing the agency's employees stationed at some of the busiest ports of entry
how to use the new equipment will be a slow process, officials say. Immigration
service trainers visited six ports last year; so far this year the trainers have
made stops in El Paso, Tex., Calexico, Calif., San Francisco, Honolulu and
Brownsville, Tex. Last week they were at Houston Intercontinental Airport, and
later this year they will go to Niagara Falls, San Juan, P.R., and Blaine, Wash.
Officials hope 15 more ports will get the equipment next year, but this depends
on Congressional decisions about the agency's budget.

At each stop, the trainers leave behind a new Nikon stereomicroscope, two
cameras and a projector. With the microscope, inspectors can closely examine
such official documents as alien registration cards for special characteristics
built in to verify that they are genuine. These might include an uncrossed
''t,'' an undotted ''i'' or a broken line in the background of the card. The
camera is used to photogaph fraudulent documents for reference, so other
employees will know what to look for, and to provide pictures that may be used
as evidence.

Immigration officials say many of the fraudulent documents they detect have been
presented by travelers from the Philippines, where economic and political
troubles have set off a wave of migration, legal and illegal, to the United
States. Agency inspectors say they have also detected a surge of fraudulent
documents among many Salvadorans, Nicaraguans, Mexicans, Haitians, Nigerians and
residents of Hong Kong.

Law-enforcement programs aimed at illegal aliens are often controversial,
generating prompt protests. But Antonia Hernandez, executive vice president of
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said the closer
scrutiny of documents was acceptable as long as inspectors did not single out
Hispanic people for special attention. Indeed, she said, it may be desirable for
the authorities to concentrate on ports of entry, rather than the interior of
the United States. Enforcement is more likely to be tainted by discriminatory
practices, she said, ''when an undocumented alien is absorbed by the community
and becomes indistinguishable from others in the Hispanic community.''

Immigration inspectors are under conflicting pressures as thousands of people
pour into the country every day. On the one hand, Mr. Stephan said, they are
expected to get citizens and legal aliens through the formalities as quickly as
possible. On the other, they are trying to scrutinize documents more closely.
The challenge is to speed up the flow while beefing up enforcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Immigration official checking passport (NYT/Barton Silverman)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 28, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON;
Making Their Way

BYLINE: By James Reston

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif.


In Washington, it's clear that the Administration's efforts to control illegal
immigration have failed, but here in California the failure is in many ways a
success.

Despite unequal treatment under the law, language handicaps, limited job
opportunities and education, resulting in poverty, broken families and ill-
health, Hispanic-Americans have established themselves as an essential part of
this state's economy.

They are now estimated to make up 19 percent of California's population - though
nobody has reliable figures. Their median age is 23 compared with 25 for blacks,
28 for Asians and 33 for whites. And it's estimated that with their higher birth
rates, they will account for 20 percent of California's population by the turn
of the century.

Like the mass migrations of other peoples into the U.S. in the past,
Hispanic-Americans have severe problems. They have the highest unemployment and
poverty rates in this state, and most of those employed are stuck in low-status,
low-paying jobs. But this is changing faster than is generally realized.

In Los Angeles, for example, two-thirds of the garment workers in that $3
billion-a-year industry are Hispanic, most of them Mexican, and many of them
working without legal papers.

Even in the high-tech areas of Silicon Valley about 10 percent of the workers
are Hispanic, though in minor jobs. Nevertheless, many are gradually making
their way out of the fields and restaurants into better paying work in the
cities.

Meanwhile, as the Hispanic middle-class community expands, its leadership has
become much more effective in protecting the rights of Hispanic-Americans and
expanding their opportunities.

For example, 17 years ago the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund
was formed in California; this weekend it held its quarterly meeting here on the
edge of the University of California campus.

In the past - and still now - it has been concerned through litigation,
community action and legislative advocacy in promoting the interests of
Mexican-Americans, but now it is beginning to look more to the wider horizons of
the future.

One of the subjects for discussion by the Maldef board this weekend was the
''outlook for Hispanic employment in the year 2000.''

''As we come up to the last decade of the 20th century,'' one report said,
''Maldef has become increasingly concerned with broad economic issues that
affect Hispanics.

''Of particular concern at this juncture is the transformation of America from
an industrial manufacturing economy to one in which service, information
gathering, and high technology industries appear to be leading the United States
into the 21st century.''

Accordingly, like other Hispanic support organizations, Maldef is putting even
more emphasis on the education of the rising generation, particularly on
language training and advanced schooling.

The current Hispanic high-school drop-out rate is three times that of whites and
one and a half times that of blacks. Maldef estimates that 70 percent of
Hispanic children between ages 5 and 14 who live in Spanish-speaking households
have difficulty with English, and that over 70 percent who remain in high school
are enrolled in programs that do not prepare them for higher education.

Now an effort is being made to break down these barriers through increased
political action and contact with other leaders in business, labor and the
schools.

Obviously, they have a long way to go, but they're on their way. The 1980 Census
estimated that the number of Hispanic people in the U.S. was 14.6 million, not
including the ones who are never counted, 60 percent of them of Mexican origin.

The Mexican-American population increased in this country by 93 percent during
the 1970's and the population of Mexico itself doubled in the last 15 years and
is expected to double again in the next 15 - this in the face of a severe
Mexican economic crisis.

The chances are that the United States can do more to control immigration beyond
its absorptive capacity by helping Mexico improve its economy than by trying to
police a 2,000-mile border - a policy, if that's the right word, that hasn't
worked.

So regardless of what legislation the Congress finally passes, here is obviously
another fundamental change in American society - far more important than
anything else in the relations between the United States and the rest of the
Americas, and one that the United States' communications industry has neglected
or minimized for far too long.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HISPANIC ALIEN SURGE FUELS ASYLUM DEBATE

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1569 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


''For years, for the Mexican, the movement to the United States has been almost
a matter of manifest destiny,'' Arnoldo Torres says. ''Increasingly, it is
becoming so for the Central American as well. It's a matter of survival. They
will do whatever they have to do.''

Mr. Torres, the former director of the League of United Latin American Citizens,
estimates that a million to 1.5 million Central Americans, most of them
Salvadorans, are now in the United States illegally. Although Government figures
are slightly lower, everyone agrees that the number is growing rapidly.

Many of immigrants, like 26-year-old Antonio Hercules, a busboy in a Washington
restaurant where half a dozen other Salvadorans also work, came for reasons that
were almost purely economic - ''to make a life,'' as he puts it.

Others, like Antonio V., a Tucson doctor who has scars on his leg from what he
says was a mortar attack by Salvadoran Government soldiers, assert that they
came for political reasons and that they fear for their lives if they return
home. Antonio V. works with the movement among churches and synagogues to
provide sanctuary for illegal immigrants.

Still others, perhaps the majority, are in the United States for both political
and economic reasons. One of them is 38-year-old Ernesto Benitez, who came to
this country eight years ago for a job and found one as a busboy in the same
Washington restaurant as Antonio Hercules. He says he is staying on because he
is afraid to go back to El Salvador. ''Both sides can get you,'' he says. ''You
never know which side is against you.''

The question of why immigrants, particularly Salvadorans, leave home has become
one of the key points of a growing debate over whether they should be allowed to
stay in this country.

Under Federal law, political asylum can be granted to an alien who can prove he
or she has been the victim of persecution or has a ''well-founded fear'' of
persecution on the basis of race, religion, political belief or membership in a
particular organization.

Few Salvadorans who request such asylum are granted it, however, and their
supporters have recently begun to focus on another provision of the immigration
law that allows aliens in this country to remain if Congress deems conditions in
their home country have deteriorated so that they cannot return home safely.
Refugees from Poland, Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Uganda, for example, are allowed
to stay here under this provision. Bills introduced in the House and Senate
would add El Salvador to that list.

The Reagan Administration, which opposes those bills, maintains most Central
Americans come to the United States for economic reasons. Noting that most of
the immigrants come through Mexico, Duke Austin, spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, said, ''If all they wanted to do is flee violence,
they would have stayed in Mexico.''

However, a recent study by William Stanley of the political science department
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, dealing only with El Salvador,
concluded that ''fear of political violence is ''probably the predominant motive
behind the decisions of Salvadorans to migrate to the U.S. since 1979.''

The study found a direct correlation between the levels of violence and
increases in migration.

DeConcini Introduced Bill

Citing such evidence, Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona, introduced
a bill to grant Salvadorans now in this country illegally the same status as
refugees from Poland. It would suspend for about two years deportation hearings
against Salvadoran refugees.

The Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Policy of the Senate Judiciary
Committee is expected to act on the measure after Congress reconvenes in
September. A companion bill has been introduced in the House by Representative
Joe Moakley, Democrat of Massachusetts.

There are an estimated 500,000 to 850,000 Salvadorans, making them by far the
largest group of Central Americans now living illegally in the United States.

Estimates prepared by the Urban Institute for the Department of Health and Human
Services show that 750,000 to 1.3 million Central Americans are now in this
country, the vast majority in violation of immigration laws. The figures
indicate that the recent wave of immigrants from Central America is slightly
below the high points in Italian and Irish immigration. By 1890, when those
movements were near their peaks, 2 million Italians had immigrated here over the
previous 10 years and there were 1.9 million Irish-born in the United States.

The influx of Central Americans has generated deep conflicts in the United
States that have emerged in bitter debates on immigration policy, the sanctuary
movement and United States influence in Central America. Many of these issues
have been debated by the panel considering the DeConcini bill.

Churches Endorse Movement

The governing bodies of several large religious denominations, including the
United Methodists, the Presbyterian Church (USA), the United Church of Christ
and the American Baptist Churches, have endorsed the sanctuary movement, which
assists and provides refuge to Central Americans who are here illegally.

Two church workers are serving prison terms for transporting illegal aliens.
Twelve others face trial on similar charges in Phoenix on Oct. 15. Supporters of
the movement say they are providing refuge to those fleeing civil strife in
Central America and that the Government's investigation of their activities
violated their religious freedom.

The Administration, through the State Department, has maintained that Central
American immigrants are fleeing hunger, not politics, and ''hunger is not a
political issue,'' as an immigration official in Miami put it.

''We grant asylum only when someone can show a well-founded fear of persecution
if he or she were to return home,'' Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams
told the Senate panel considering the DeConcini measure.

''Under our laws, generalized conditions of poverty and civil unrest do not
entitle people who leave their homelands to settle here,'' Mr. Abrams said. If
that were the case, he argued, ''half the 100 million people living between the
Rio Grande and Panama would meet it, as would hundreds of millions more people
in other parts of the earth.'' He has also said that to grant temporary refuge
to Salvadorans here would encourage other refugees from that country to flock to
the United States in the hope that they, too, would be allowed to remain.

Many Asylum Requests Denied

Efforts to grant Salvadorans legal temporary refuge have been spurred by the
difficulty they and others from the region face in obtaining political asylum.
Only 3 percent of Central Americans who apply for asylum are granted it,
immigration officials say, and the Government has deported about 25,000 of those
who applied for asylum in the last five years.

In January, for example, a 29-year-old Salvadoran who was a member of the
Salvadoran teachers union told immigration officials he had been tortured with
acid and his brother had been kidnapped, tortured and decapitated. His testimony
was corroborated by doctors for Amnesty International, but the immigration
service ruled that while ''the applicant has described the suffering which he
and other family members had unfortunately suffered during the civil strife in
El Salvador, suffering that has been suffered by other groups and political
factions, the problems of the applicant and his family do not stem from
persecution but from the civil strife which has torn El Salvador apart over the
past five to nine years.''

''The tragedy of El Salvador,'' the ruling went on, ''is that the suffering, the
armed kidnapping and other excesses are not confined to one particular group but
are endured and perpetrated by all.'' Asylum was denied. Fate of Deportees
Questioned A key question argued by those on both sides of the issue was what
happens to those who are deported.

The Government maintains that deportation itself does not bring reprisal. Wade
Henderson, legislative counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union, calls this
argument ''a red herring.''

''The issue is not whether these persons were targeted or persecuted because
they had been deported,'' he said. ''The issues are whether conditions in El
Salvador make such harm possible and whether it is unconscionable to send
Salvadorans back even if the deportee faces no greater danger than those faced
by persons who never left El Salvador.'' The danger, he argues, is universal.

Direct evidence in any case is sparse, in part because it is not always safe to
find out what happens to deportees.

Attempting last year to survey 482 deportees, the United States Embassy in El
Salvador was able to reach only 120 people. Most of the others could not be
found, and 78 were in areas that embassy investigators considered too dangerous
to visit.

The A.C.L.U.'s own inquiries are also skimpy. It sued to obtain the names of
deportees, and the Government identified 8,500. The organization checked these
against its roll of 15,000 people identified as victims of persecution. It found
that 52 of the 8,500 had been killed and 47 had disappeared. As for the
remaining 8,400, it said, ''the fact that our files do not contain records of
persecution to them cannot be interpreted to mean that they have suffered no
harm.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Salvadoran refugee family at church in Tacoma, Wash. (Agence
France-Presse) (page A11)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 30, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

2 HELD IN BABY-SMUGGLING RING

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 29


A woman who runs a halfway house for unwed mothers has been charged, along with
her daughter, with being part of a baby-smuggling ring that preyed on the
unmarried women, selling their infants for at least $5,000, the authorities have
announced.

The suspects, Juanita Leyva-Vargas, 52 years old, and her daughter, Melinda
Leyva-Vargas, 25, were arrested Wednesday after they delivered a 5-day-old
Mexican infant to a couple from Kalama, Wash., at Lindbergh Field airport, said
Clifton Rogers, deputy district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Phil and Linda Phillips, of Kalama, earlier adopted a girl through the ring and
offered to help immigration agents after officials told them their daughter was
an illegal alien, the authorities said. ''You can't imagine the feeling when you
have a baby 3 or 4 months old and know that they can take that baby and you have
no recourse,'' Mr. Phillips said.

Officials allowed the couple, who said they had not known the infants were
illegal aliens, to keep their baby.

It was not immediately known if any of the other adoptive parents would be
allowed to keep their babies. Harold Ezell, regional commissioner of the
immigration agency, said they could keep the children if it was found that they
were unaware of the smuggling conspiracy when they adopted the babies. #2
Mexicans Are Suspects Warrants are expected to be issued soon for two Mexican
nationals who are also believed to be part of the ring, which may have sold 200
infants in the past two years, Mr. Rogers said. The Leyva-Vargases, who live in
San Ysidro about 20 miles south of San Diego, were charged with conspiracy to
smuggle illegal aliens.

The authorities said the ring provided babies to couples, primarily throughout
the Middle Western and Northwestern United States, through an unlicensed halfway
house for unwed Mexican mothers in Tijuana, Mexico. The mother operated the
home, Mr. Ezell said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Linda and Phil Phillips and daughter (AP)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 14, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW HIGH IN BORDER ARRESTS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 71 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13


A record 1,265,054 illegal aliens, more than 95 percent of them Mexicans, were
apprehended at United States borders in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service says. But despite the figures showing
overall apprehensions increased by 11 percent, Commissioner Alan C. Nelson said
last week that ''the problem won't go away'' and urged quick approval of
legislation to stem the tide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 18, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

KOCH MEMO DIRECTS CITY WORKERS NOT TO REPORT ILLEGAL ALIENS TO U.S.

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 699 words


Mayor Koch said yesterday that he had ordered city employees not to report
illegal immigrants living in the city to Federal authorities unless the alien
''appears to be engaged in some kind of criminal behavior.''

In an order dated Tuesday and addressed to the heads of all city departments,
the Mayor said the city had no obligation to report any of the 400,000 to
750,000 undocumented aliens living in the city. To do so, he added, would
discourage aliens from applying for city services such as medical treatment and
police protection.

'For the Public Weal'

''Undocumented aliens should not be discouraged from making use of those city
services to which they are entitled,'' the Mayor said in the memo. ''On the
contrary, for the public weal they should be encouraged to do so.''

But a spokesman for the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service said last
night that the city was legally obligated to help the Federal Government find
illegal aliens. Their very presence in the United States is a violation of
Federal law, said the spokesman, Greg Leo, who is the agency's director of
Congressional and public affairs.

''We feel this is an unwise and unpatriotic policy,'' he said. ''Illegal aliens
will compete with American citizens - against New Yorkers - for jobs.''

''There is a legal obligation for local officials to assist Federal officials
when it is known for certain that there is violation of law,'' Mr. Leo said.
''The illegal alien being here is a violation.''

He called the Mayor's comments ''significant'' and ''troubling.'' ''We do think
the laws of the United States apply throughout the United States, no matter what
the jurisdiction,'' he added.

Mr. Leo added, however, that he did not know whether the Mayor's order itself
was a violation of law and that Federal officials would study the issue.

After making the memorandum public yesterday, Mr. Koch said that as long as he
was Mayor, the city would obey the law. In cases where people applied for hack
licenses or gave fingerprints and were warned that information might be used for
law enforcement, he said, the information could be passed on to Federal
authorities.

But, he added, the purpose of the policy was to bring the city's large illegal
immigrant population in touch with services they needed.

The Mayor said that the policy against reporting illegal aliens had already been
in effect within city agencies and that his memorandum was meant to ''reaffirm''
that policy.

''For the most part these aliens are self-supporting and law-abiding
residents,'' he said. ''The greatest problem they pose to the city is their
tendency to underuse services to which they are entitled, and to which their
well-being and the city's well-being depends.''

Patrick F. X. Mulhearn, the counsel to the Mayor, last night took exception to
the comments by Mr. Leo, the Immigration and Naturalization Service official.

''We believe it is the sole province of the Federal Government to enforce the
immigration and naturalization laws,'' Mr. Mulhearn said. In cases where there
is no legal requirement of citizenship or United States residency to receive a
service, Mr. Mulhearn said, the city's policy is to make no inquiry on the
subject.

''If somebody comes to our shelters, we don't ask them for a green card,'' Mr.
Mulhearn said. ''If someone comes to our schools, we don't ask them if they are
a citizen. We don't ask about citizenship to dispense medical care.'' Green
cards are issued to legally resident aliens.

Mr. Koch oredered the head of each city agency to designate people who will be
in charge of receiving reports from other workers about illegal aliens, the
possibility of forged documentation or criminal misconduct. City employees other
than the designated ones are frobidden to determine whther an illegal alien has
broken the law, the memo said.

''This designated person or office should make the determintaion on how each
case is to be handeled,'' the memorandum said.

The Police Department and the Department of Correction, the memorandum said,
''are both permitted and obligated to cooperate with the immigration authorities
in apprehending aliens who are committing crimes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 7, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Can We Do Something For Legal Aliens, Too?

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 190 words


To the Editor:

In ''The Immigration Mess'' (editorial, Oct. 22), you suggest that the
''millions of illegal aliens'' who have managed to beat the system for a long
time be allowed to stay. But what about the thousands of legal aliens who have
worked within the system? Why not let them be permanent residents, too?

These people - students, journalists, temporary workers, etc. - are staying
''temporarily'' in the country under nonimmigrant visas. Their ''duration of
stay'' is restricted by their visas, even though some have lived in the country
for 10 years or more. In some European countries (Sweden, for example), they
would have been entitled to apply for citizenship. But here they don't even
qualify to be permanent residents.

Couldn't the Simpson-Rodino-Mazzoli bill accommodate the aspirations of the
legal aliens as much as it accommodates the needs of the illegal aliens and
their employers? Why not change the present law so that those aliens who first
arrived in the United States before June 30, 1977, can live here permanently?
(The present cut-off date is June 30, 1948.) HENRY DE SILVA Washington, Oct. 29,
1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 30, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

5 HAITIAN STOWAWAYS DISAPPEAR IN A DISPUTE

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 29


Five Haitian stowaways, who had been shuttled between the United States and the
Bahamas in an immigration dispute, have escaped from a dungeonlike cargo box
aboard a freighter and are believed to have fled into Miami.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border Patrol
are searching for the five men, who were living in the Bahamas before they
stowed away Monday inside a cement mixer on the coastal freighter Alco Trader.
The ship shuttles goods between Freeport, Grand Bahama. and Port Everglades,
north of Miami.

For five days officials in both the United States and the Bahamas refused to
accept the Haitians, ruling that they were illegal aliens.

A Guard 'Walked Away'

George Waldroup, deputy district director for the immigration service, said
today that the men sneaked out of a cargo box, where they were being held, about
11:30 P.M. Thursday.

''The owners of the freighter are responsible for all security,'' Mr. Waldroup
said. ''They had two guards on them. One of the guards walked away. The door was
slightly ajar, they claim, and the five took right off.''

Mr. Waldroup said the freighter's owner would be fined $5,000.

''We're also going to have investigators look into the matter to see if it was
deliberate,'' he said.

Mr. Waldroup said the men might have disappeared into Miami's large Haitian
population, but he added: ''We have their names, et cetera. They could very well
be found.''

He said there was one unconfirmed sighting of the men about 2 A.M. today.

Each of the stowaways, who were interviewed on the ship Thanksgiving Day, said
they lived and worked at odd jobs in the Bahamas for years. When the Government
there cracked down on employers who failed to verify work permits, said one of
the stowaways, Micheret Aleime, 21 years old, the work dried up and the five men
decided to try to get to the United States.

On Monday night they crawled into the dust-filled cement mixer on the freighter
'It Was Horrible'

''It was horrible,'' said another one, Wileto Moyse, 30, ''I had to fight to
keep from sneezing.''

United States Coast Guard inspectors discovered them before dawn Tuesday when
the vessel was 35 miles east of Miami.

Immigration service officials ordered the Alco Trader's captain to keep the men
on board, and they were shipped out to Freeport early Wednesday. When they
arrived, Bahamian officials refused to let them disembark, and they returned
with the ship to Port Everglades on Thursday.

The five men spent Thanksgiving Day sweating in a smelly metal box aboard the
freighter. They had a plastic jug of orange juice. Another plastic jug filled
with urine sat nearby.

Mr. Aleime asked then: ''Are we supposed to ride back and forth forever? Can't
we get off somewhere?''

Bahamian officials say 40,000 illegal aliens from Haiti are already in the
island nation, and the Bahamian Government has ordered illegal Haitian residents
to leave by Nov. 22.

''We have no intention of accepting people that are here illegally.'' said H. C.
Walkine, secretary of the National Ministry of Security in Nassau who oversees
immigration policy. ''We have enough of them as it is.''

In Miami, Perry Rivkind, the district director for the immigration service,
called the Bahamian stance on the stowaways ''an unconscionable act.''

He accused the Bahamian Government of ''deliberately chasing'' its illegal
Haitian residents to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 20, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Bogus Contest Lures 55 Aliens Into Custody

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 80 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Jan. 19


Immigration officers turned 55 illegal aliens from happy winners into startled
losers Saturday after they showed up to collect promised contest prizes and were
promptly arrested.

Twenty-five aliens appeared at the balloon-bedecked Texas National Guard armory
after receiving letters from a nonexistent automobile dealer telling them they
had won free gifts, officials said. They were arrested, along with 30 friends
and relatives, also illegal aliens, who came with them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 24, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AIDE SAYS REAGAN BACKS ALIEN BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23


The White House today reaffirmed its support for a comprehensive immigration
bill, even though President Reagan's economic advisers have warned that certain
provisions in the legislation would harm the economy.

However, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, a Democrat, said that
the President's Council of Economic Advisers had placed a new obstacle in the
legislation's path.

A 'Labor Market Tax'

A draft report by the council says that proposals to punish employers of illegal
aliens would have adverse effects on the nation's economy, reducing output and
imposing a new ''labor market tax'' on employers. The report is to be submitted
to Congress in early February, but some of its conclusions were published
Thursday in The New York Times.

Larry Speakes, the chief White House spokesman, said the President remained
committed to a Senate-passed bill that seeks to curtail illegal immigration by
prohibiting the employment of illegal aliens. The bill is awaiting action by the
House Judiciary Committee.

The office of Beryl W. Sprinkel, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers,
issued a statement today saying his analysis in the draft report ''should not in
any way be construed as condoning illegal immigration.'' In addition, the
statement said, Mr. Sprinkel's views ''in no way signal a change in the
Administration's position on immigration reform.''

But Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey, chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, said the council's outlook, as reflected in its draft
report, ''places a major obstacle in the path of immigration reform.''

''I have been attempting for over a decade to enact meaningful legislation which
will enable this nation to regain control of its borders,'' Mr. Rodino added.
''This report by President Reagan's council throws cold water on these efforts
and plays directly into the hands of the numerous special interest groups which
have traditionally opposed this urgently needed legislation.''

'Personal Leadership' Urged

Mr. Rodino said the President should ''take a personal leadership role'' on
immigration, as he has on such issues as revision of the tax code, and
''actively support'' the legislation.

Greg J. Leo, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
that ''we disagree with the findings of this draft report'' by the Council of
Economic Advisers. Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, has expressed his objections in a letter to Mr. Sprinkel, Mr.
Leo said.

Immigration officials disagree with the council on a key point. They contend
that it is possible to separate the economic effects of legal and illegal
aliens. In its draft report, the council said, ''Separate economic effects of
illegal alien workers have not been isolated.''

Thomas C. Ferguson, deputy commissioner of the immigration agency, also took
issue with the council's statement that ''migrants do not appear to have
excluded the native-born from jobs or to have reduced wage levels on a broad
scale'' in the United States. Immigration officers often find illegal aliens
working at high-wage jobs in the construction industry and in other industries,
he said.

Mr. Speakes said the discussion of employer sanctions would be dropped from the
version of the council's report being sent to Congress.

Questions Raised Last July

The Senate bill was introduced by Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. Its
House counterpart is sponsored by Mr. Rodino and Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky.

Mr. Sprinkel raised questions about the legislation last July at a meeting of
the Domestic Policy Council, a Presidential advisory body composed of Cabinet
officers. According to confidential minutes of the meeting, Mr. Sprinkel ''felt
the Simpson bill is based on three premises which are not supported by the
studies: that illegal immigration is a problem, that illegal immigrants take
jobs from Americans and that illegal immigrants are a drain on the economy.''

Daniel A. Stein, an attorney at the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
a nonprofit group that seeks to halt illegal immigration, said the draft report
''takes a simplistic view of the economic arguments for and against employer
sanctions.''

He said the report ''fails to recognize the needs of low-skilled and semiskilled
American workers to be protected from illegal aliens who are willing to work for
substandard wages.''

Cost Estimates Challenged

Mr. Leo, the spokesman for the immigration agency, said the Council of Economic
Advisers was ''off base'' in asserting that aliens provided a ''net fiscal
gain'' to the United States. ''Illegal aliens cost the country more, on a net
basis, because they consume government services and do not necessarily pay into
the system through taxes,'' he said.

He also challenged the council's estimate of the cost to employers of screening
job applicants to verify their immigration status. The council put the cost to
employers at $1.6 billion to $2.6 billion a year, an estimate it called
conservative.

''We don't believe the costs would be that extensive,'' Mr. Leo said, but he did
not have a precise estimate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 16, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICAN OFFICIAL SEES HARM IN U.S. BILL ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 44, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Feb. 14


With Congress considering stringent new measures to stem immigration, a Mexican
Senator is warning that the measure would only worsen their nation's grave
economic crisis.

At a conference today on immigration, the Mexican Senator, Maria del Carmen
Marquez de Romero Aceves, called on the United States to offer cooperation and
assistance rather than a cold shoulder to Mexico as a means of relieving the
economic pressures at the root of illegal immigration.

''Mexico prefers to export goods rather than labor,'' said Senator Marquez, who
represents the Mexican state of Baja California. ''But to find the solutions we
need the cooperation of this country to create the necessary conditions to make
our own country more attractive.'' She urged that the United States lift
restrictions on imports from Mexico.

The conference was called by the League of United Latin American Citizens, which
is mobilizing opposition to the immigration bill pending in Congress. The
measure would, among other things, subject employers to civil penalties of
$1,000 to $5,000 for each illegal alien hired.

The Senate has passed the bill, and the House Judiciary Committee is expected to
begin hearings this month.

Oscar Moran, national president of the league, called for ''equitable and fair''
legislation that would ''take into account conditions'' in Mexico.

Senator Marquez told the gathering at the Four Seasons Hotel here, that, with
the Mexican population expected to top 100 million by the year 2000, her country
would be able to provide employment for only half the people coming of age in
the next several years.

Jobs and Immigration

The Senator also disputed American assumptions that Mexican workers in this
country without immigration documents were depriving Americans of jobs. She
noted that average unemployment in the United States had dropped from 10.7
percent in 1981 to 6.9 percent in October 1985, just as the devaluation of the
Mexican peso spurred a surge in illegal immigration.

She said the pending immigration bill would injure both Mexicans working in the
United States and good relations between the two countries.

''We are convinced that we can reduce the influx of the immigrants,'' she said.
''But we don't believe that this is the right formula; it looks unilateral. We
are looking for bilateral understanding because the persecution and the bad
treatment is generating injustice and is making it more difficult.''

Among those attending the conference were Mayor Henry Cisneros of San Antonio
and Mayor Aldo Tatangelo, of Laredo, Tex.

Mr. Tatangelo said the United States should have more respect for Mexico. ''Just
think if that friendly neighbor should be hostile to us,'' he said. ''Let us
treat them like a friend. If we do not, we will pay for that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 5, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MEESE DEFENDS POLICY ON ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 27, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4


Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d told a House panel today that the Reagan
Administration was holding its own in its efforts to stem the tide of illegal
immigration.

In a hearing on the Justice Department's budget for the fiscal year 1987, Mr.
Meese said the department had already moved to improve the equipment and
training of Federal agents who guard the nation's borders.

But Representative Neal Smith, an Iowa Democrat who is chairman of a
subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee that handles the Justice
Department's budget, said he had visited a Border Patrol unit recently and
watched as aliens easily evaded a cordon of agents. The Border Patrol is part of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is under the supervision of
the Attorney General.

Mr. Smith said he was present when the border agents caught and interrogated
illegal aliens who told of entering the United States many times. ''We're not
really gaining anything on this problem,'' he asserted.

Mr. Meese replied, ''I would say we're holding our own.''

Last month Alan C. Nelson, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said arests in 1985 were at record levels, more than 40 percent above
that for the previous level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 9, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MASSACHUSETTS TOWN ADOPTS PROPOSAL TO AID ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., April 8


The Cambridge City Council, after a noisy hearing before 200 supporters, voted 5
to 4 tonight to approve a resolution declaring the city a sanctuary to Latin
American refugees.

Under the resolution, city agencies and employees would not cooperate with
Federal efforts to expel an estimated 5,000 illegal immigrants from El Salvador,
Guatemala and Haiti who have fled to this university city of about 95,000
residents.

The resolution would also offer educational and health services to aliens.
Proponents said aliens who feared that they would be forced to prove their
citizenship and face deportation were not seeking medical treatment or education
for their children.

Move Is to Show Support

Alice Wolf, a Council member and sponsor of the measure, said one purpose of the
resolution was to show support for the aliens, who say they fear political
persecution, torture and death if sent back to their native countries.

''Many things start at the local level, and we can't wait for the Federal
Government to come around,'' she said. ''I believe we have an obligation to
shelter people who are being persecuted in other countries.'' The resolution
orders city employees to refuse cooperation with the Federal authorities ''to
the extent legally possible.'' It was modeled after one adopted in February by
the City Council in Berkeley, Calif., said Miss Wolf.

Those involved in the sanctuary movement contend the Reagan Administration is
violating the Refugee Act of 1980 by deporting the aliens. The Federal act
extends legal asylum to those who flee their countries for fear of political
persecution.

But Federal immigration officials hold that most of the aliens came to the
United States for economic reasons, and add that they cannot confirm allegations
of widespread persecution of those who have been deported.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 14, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOLLOW-UP ON THE NEWS ;
Sweat Victory

BYLINE: By Richard Haitch

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 45, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 212 words


The good news for Jose and Sylvia Carmona was that they had won a public drawing
in Kansas City, Mo., that gave them the right to acquire an abandoned
three-bedroom ranch house through ''sweat equity.''

The bad news came last June after they got their picture in a newspaper as
winners and the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested them as illegal
aliens.

They were ordered back to Mexico in August, but the charity that had conducted
the drawing - Partners: People in Progress - said it would hold the house for
them.

The Carmonas, whose four young children are United States citizens, are living
in the rehabilitated house now. They have received a stay of deportation until
February 1987 while Congress considers a bill to grant them citizenship, says
the Rev. Robert Frerking, a board member of Partners: People in Progress.

The Lutheran minister says the bill, introduced jointly by Missouri's Senators -
Thomas F. Eagleton, Democrat, and John C. Danforth, Republican - is before the
Senate Judiciary Commitee.

While awaiting Congressional action, Mr. Carmona, a roofer, has gained equity in
the house by helping to fix it up, and he and his wife are now paying off an
interest-free $30,000 mortgage granted by the charity, Mr. Frerking says.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 15, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Head of Shelter for Refugees In Texas Arrested at Border

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: SARITA, Tex., May 14


The director of a shelter for Central American refugees has been arrested at a
border checkpoint when a Nicaraguan was found in the trunk of her car, the
authorities say.

Lorry Thomas, who became director of Casa Oscar Romero in San Benito after the
conviction in February of her predecessor, Jack Elder, for transporting illegal
aliens, was arrested Sunday, the Border Patrol said.

Miss Thomas, 41, was charged with transporting an illegal alien. The Nicaraguan,
identified as Raul Dominguez Cardoza, was held as a material witness and for an
immigration hearing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 19, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Church Worker Wins Retrial in Alien Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, June 18


A Federal appeals court today overturned the conviction of Stacey Lynn Merkt, a
religious worker who was arrested while driving two illegal aliens from El
Salvador down a remote country road in Texas.

A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
sent the case back to Federal District Court in Texas for a new trial on charges
of conspiracy and transporting illegal aliens.

Miss Merkt, a 30-year-old volunteer worker at Casa Oscar Romero a
church-supported sanctuary in San Benito, argued that she was merely taking the
two aliens to an immigration office to apply for political asylum when she was
arrested last year. She had faced a six-month prison sentence.

The Government questioned her motives because an office was nearby and she said
they were headed toward one 290 miles away, where officials had a reputation of
being more sympathetic.

The appeals court's ruling centered on specific questions about jury
instructions at the trial and did not go into potential conflicts between church
and state.

In a friend-of-the-court argument, the National Council of Churches and five
other church organizations had said Miss Merkt was only following her religious
beliefs since she considered it her religious obligation to transport illegal
aliens.

The appeals court, in overturning the conviction, said, ''If the jury should
find as a fact that Merkt intended to present the aliens to the proper officials
so that they could seek legal status in this country, it should find that she
did not have the requisite criminal intent necessary for a conviction.''

The judges also dealt with the question of the ''nearest immigration office,''
noting the law does not prohibit an alien from applying for asylum at some other
center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 9, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Stop Debating Illegal-Immigrant Numbers

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words


To the Editor:

On June 25, you reported on a new National Academy of Sciences study of
immigration statistics (''Low Number Given for Illegal Aliens: Report Says Their
Population Has Probably Not Gone Up Sharply in Recent Years'').

Immigration is at or near the highest levels in United States history. Yet, as
the title of the report suggests, a review of immigration statistics reveals ''A
Story Neglected.'' Important basic data on the flow of immigrants into the
United States is going uncollected. The information that is gathered is often
inaccurate, unavailable or unusable to policy makers, scholars and the general
public.

The report calls for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to report
statistics in a more accurate and timely fashion. In addition, it recom mends
that I.N.S. and other data-gathering agencies coordinate their research efforts,
and that such activities receive small but meaningful increases in funds.

I cite these findings because your account of the study gives short shrift to
these important recommendations. Instead, it focuses on one appendix that
revives the tired question of exactly how many illegal aliens reside in the
United States.

The answer is, of course, that nobody knows how many illegal aliens are here.
However, we do know that apprehensions of illegals have increased 3,000 percent
during the same period that border patrol personnel increased only 50 percent.
We also know that the number of foreign visitors to this country has more than
doubled over the last 15 years, and there is no reason to believe that the
proportion who ''overstay'' and violate their visas is going down. Illegal
immigrants who come are staying longer and bringing more family members. Most
important is that the population in every major source country of migration is
soaring.

In other words, the number of illegal immigrants is clearly large enough to
warrant concern. At this stage, we should be debating solutions rather than
engaging in an endless and ultimately futile dispute over the precise numbers
involved.

Perhaps that is why the National Academy of Sciences report spends two pages on
the ''numbers debate,'' which your article reported in detail, and more than 300
pages on how to improve immigration statistics, which your article, regrettably,
did not explore.ROGER CONNER Executive Director, Federation for American
Immigration Reform Washington, June 26, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE ROLL-CALL ON BILL ON ALIENS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19


Following is the roll-call vote by which the Senate voted today to approve a
bill intended to reduce illegal immigration:

WASHINGTON, Sept. 19. (AP) -Following is the roll-call vote by which the Senate
voted today to approve a bill intended to reduce illegal immigration:

FOR THE IMMIGRATION BILL - 69 Democrats - 28 Baucus, Mont. Bentsen, Tex. Boren,
Okla. Bumpers, Ark. Byrd, W.Va. Chiles, Fla. Dodd, Conn. Eagleton, Mo. Exon,
Neb. Ford, Ky. Glenn, Ohio Gore, Tenn. Harkin, Iowa Hollings, S.C. Johnston, La.
Leahy, Vt. Long, La. Matsunaga, Hawaii Melcher, Mont. Metzenbaum, Ohio Moynihan,
N.Y. Nunn, Ga. Pell, R.I. Proxmire, Wis. Rockefeller, W. Va. Sarbanes, Md.
Sasser, Tenn. Stennis, Miss.  Republicans - 41 Abdnor, S.D. Andrews, N.D.
Boschwitz, Minn. Chafee, R.I. Cochran, Miss. D'Amato, N.Y. Danforth, Mo. Denton,
Ala. Dole, Kan. Durenberger, Minn. Evans, Wash. Gorton, Wash. Grassley, Iowa
Hatfield, Ore. Hawkins, Fla. Hecht, Nev. Heinz, Pa. Kassebaum, Kan. Kasten, Wis.
Laxalt, Nev. Lugar, Ind. Mathias, Md. Mattingly, Ga. McConnell, Ky. Murkowski,
Alaska Nickles, Okla. Packwood, Ore. Pressler, S.D. Quayle, Ind. Roth, Del.
Rudman, N.H. Simpson, Wyo. Specter, Pa. Stafford, Vt. Stevens, Alaska. Thurmond,
S.C. Trible, Va. Wallop, Wyo Warner, Va. Weicker, Conn. Wilson, Calif. AGAINST
THE IMMIGRATION BILL - 30 Democrats - 19 Biden, Del. Bingaman, N.M. Bradley,
N.J. Burdick, N.D. Cranston, Calif. DeConcini, Ariz. Dixon, Ill. Hart, Colo.
Heflin, Ala. Inouye, Hawaii Kennedy, Mass. Kerry, Mass. Lautenberg, N.J. Levin,
Mich. Mitchell, Me. Pryor, Ark. Riegle, Mich. Simon, Ill. Zorinsky, Neb.
Republicans - 11 Armstrong, Colo. Cohen, Me.  Domenici, N.M.

Garn, Utah

Goldwater, Ariz. Gramm, Tex. Hatch, Utah Helms, N.C. Humphrey, N.H. McClure,
Idaho Symms, Idaho Not Voting - 1 East, R-N.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 20, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE VOTES BILL DESIGNED TO CURB ILLEGAL MIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19


The Senate today passed a comprehensive bill intended to curtail illegal
immigration after breaking a procedural deadlock that had delayed a vote for two
days.

The bill was approved by a vote of 69 to 30. It was supported by 41 Republicans
and 28 Democrats and opposed by 19 Democrats and 11 Republicans.

The final vote, after seven days of debate, was closer than the margins by which
the Senate passed similar bills in 1982 and 1983. Those votes were 80 to 19 and
76 to 18. Opponents of the bill, especially growers of fruits and vegetables,
were better organized this year.

'It's a Balanced Proposal'

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chief sponsor of all three
bills, appealed for his colleagues' support today, saying: ''It's a balanced and
well-intended proposal which, if enacted, would promote the general best
interest of the United States.''

The bill passed today would prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens,
provide more money for enforcement of immigration laws and offer legal status to
illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1980, and had lived
here continuously since then.

The measure now goes to the House, which passed a similar bill last year by a
vote of 216 to 211. That bill died in a conference committee after Senate-House
negotiators failed to resolve differences between the two versions.

Some lawmakers said the legislation had a better chance of becoming law in this
Congress because it was sponsored in the House by Representative Peter W. Rodino
Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee. But the
bill is still opposed by many Hispanic groups, by civil rights groups, by some
labor unions and by farmers who have depended on illegal aliens to pick crops.

Critics fear the legislation would increase employment discrimination against
Hispanic people, but Mr. Simpson and other supporters said there were safeguards
to prevent such bias. Proponents said the legislation was needed to stop the
exploitation of illegal aliens by employers in agriculture, manufacturing and
other industries.

The bill's prohibition on hiring illegal aliens would take effect immediately.
But the program giving legal status to illegal aliens could be delayed for up to
three years while the Government adopted ''more effective enforcement measures''
to halt the influx of illegal aliens.

Social Security Delays Vote

Today's vote was delayed by a partisan fight over Social Security. Senator John
Heinz, Republican of Pennsylvania, had proposed an amendment to the bill
expressing the sense of the Senate that the Social Security trust fund should be
removed from the Federal budget to protect Social Security from budget cuts.
Over the objections of Senate leaders from his own party, Mr. Heinz wanted the
Senate to vote on his proposal before taking a final vote on the immigration
bill.

But the Senate decided, in effect, to postpone consideration of the Social
Security issue, referring it to the Budget Committee and the Finance Committee
for further study. By a vote of 79 to 20, the Senate directed the committees to
report legislation assuring that ''alterations will not be made in Social
Security benefits for the purpose of reducing the Federal deficit.''

In a separate action today, the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social
Security approved a bill to remove the Social Security trust fund from the
overall budget in the fiscal year 1987.

'Virtually No Alternative'

Mr. Simpson's bill would make the most significant changes in immigration law in
at least two decades. Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California, said he had
decided to vote for the bill because ''there is virtually no alternative being
offered by anyone'' and ''the American people are clamoring for a response'' to
the problem of illegal immigration.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he could not support
the bill because it would let as many as 350,000 aliens enter this country as
seasonal farm workers.

But Mr. Simpson said the farm worker program would make the bill more attractive
to President Reagan because ''his California constituents have been taken care
of.'' Many growers of perishable fruits and vegetables are in California, and
they contend that they need alien workers to pick their crops, which will rot if
not harvested at the proper times.

Support in Administration

The Administration generally supported the bill.

The Senators from New York and Connecticut voted for the bill. The Senators from
New Jersey, Bill Bradley and Frank R. Lautenberg, both Democrats, voted against
it.

These are major provisions of the immigration bill:

* Employers would be subject to civil penalties of $100 to $2,000 for each
illegal alien they hired. If there was a ''pattern or practice'' of violations,
the employer would be subject to a penalty of $3,000 to $10,000 for each illegal
alien hired.

* The Government would offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered the
United States before Jan. 1, 1980, and have lived here continuously since. The
Congressional Budget Office has estimated that 952,000 illegal aliens would be
eligible for legal status and that 570,000 would apply and be accepted.

* Aliens who gained legal status would first become temporary residents and
then, after two and a half years, could become permanent residents if they could
show a knowledge of the English language and of American history and government.
Aliens could apply for citizenship after five years as permanent residents.

* The bill expresses the ''sense of Congress'' that there should be an increase
in the Border Patrol and other enforcement activities of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The bill would authorize $840 million for the agency in
1987, a rise of 44 percent from the current fiscal year.

* Farmers could bring up to 350,000 aliens into the United States to harvest
perishable fruit and vegetables. The workers could stay in this country for up
to nine months a year and could move from one farm to another in a designated
region. This program would end after about three years unless Congress continued
it.

* Under a separate program, farmers would have three years to end the employment
of illegal aliens. In that period, the farmers could continue using illegal
aliens as seasonal workers but would be required to reduce the number by
one-third each year.

* Federal law-enforcement officers would have to obtain a warrant before
entering open fields to search for illegal aliens.

* States would be required to check the status of aliens applying for welfare,
food stamps, Medicaid and other benefits, to make sure they were not illegal
aliens.

In addition, illegal aliens who obtained legal status under the bill could not
receive Federal welfare, Medicaid or food stamp benefits for six years.

However, they might qualify for benefits under state programs. The Federal
Government would reimburse the states for the cost, providing $300 million in
each of the first two years, and $600 million in each of the following four
years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW HIGH IN BORDER ARRESTS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 38, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 71 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


A record 1,265,054 illegal aliens, more than 95 percent of them Mexicans, were
apprehended at United States borders in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service says. But despite the figures showing
overall apprehensions increased by 11 percent, Commissioner Alan C. Nelson said
this week that ''the problem won't go away'' and urged quick approval of
legislation to stem the tide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 19, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

KOCH FAULTS U.S. POLICY ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words


Mayor Koch assailed the Federal Government yesterday, saying it was at fault for
allowing illegal immigrants into the city yet unwilling to share the cost of
providing services for them.

''I am calling on the Federal Government to do its job,'' the Mayor said,
referring to the tracking down and deporting of illegal immigrants. ''It's a
Federal responsibility and they're not carrying it out.''

Mr. Koch's comments came as he defended a memorandum issued this week
instructing city agencies not to report illegal immigrants unless they appeared
to be involved in criminal acts.

The Mayor said he had acted out of humanitarian concerns because he did not want
to discourage the aliens from seeking essential services, such as medical
treatment, or from sending their children to school. And he said he did not want
to turn every city clerk into a supercop preoccupied with tracking down illegal
immigrants.

A Message to Washington

But he also acknowledged that he had promulgated the memorandum as a message to
the Federal Government.

''Why don't they like it?'' he asked, referring to Federal officials' criticism
of his order. ''Because it shows how bad they are in carrying out their
responsibilities not to allow the illegal immigration to get across the borders.
And when it gets across the border, they don't want to pay for those services
that we must pay for on humanitarian grounds.''

Elizabeth Bogen, director of the Office of Immigrant Affairs in the City
Planning Department, who sat next to the Mayor as he spoke in his City Hall
office, said immigration officials had repeatedly told her they did not want the
city to report most illegal immigrants because the Federal Government did not
have the capacity to hold and prosecute them.

She said that Federal officials only wanted to know about those aliens who
committed crimes, and that those aliens would continue to be reported.

U.S. to Seek Dialogue

Reached in Washington, Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, acknowledged that the service was primarily interested
in illegal aliens who committed crimes because nationwide ''we get far more
leads to illegal aliens than we can possibly follow up on.''

''We don't have adequate detention space,'' he continued, ''and the hearing
process is backlogged.''

In general, comments by immigration officials yesterday were restrained. Late
Thursday night, Greg Leo, the agency's director of Congressional and public
affairs, denounced the Mayor's actions as ''unpatriotic'' and ''troubling.''

But yesterday, Mr. Leo said that he had spoken ''without the benefit of seeing
the Mayor's comments'' and stressed that officials of the agency ''would contact
the Mayor so we can sit down and have a dialogue on cooperation.''

The Mayor pointed out that other cities, including Los Angeles and Chicago, had
given similar instructions to their agencies.

Mr. Koch estimated that there were 400,000 to 750,000 illegal aliens in the
city, and he said he wanted to get the word out to them that they should not be
afraid to seek city services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 6, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

$2 MILLION TOP PRIZE TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT IN CALIFORNIA LOTTERY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif., Nov. 5


An illegal alien from Mexico won $2 million, the top prize in the California
Lottery on Monday. He will be able to collect his winnings, but he will have to
leave the country or risk deportation, officials said today.

The winner, Jose Caballero, 24 years old, said he told lottery officials he was
in the country illegally before he spun the wheel for the top prize in Los
Angeles.

''They said it was no problem,'' he said in Spanish after returning to San Jose,
where he lives with relatives who are American citizens. ''They said: 'You paid
a dollar for that ticket. You got a winning number.' ''

The lottery director, Mark Michalko, said Mr. Caballero would be awarded full
installments of his prize, $100,000 a year for 20 years, less withholding for
Federal income tax.

''People are able to come in from any place in the world, win the lottery and we
pay them,'' Mr. Michalko said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Internal Revenue Service will
determine Mr. Caballero's citizenship status and tax withholding amount, the
lottery security chief, Lew Ritter, said.

An immigration agency spokesman, Joe Flanders, said his service was
investigating the matter solely to determine whether Mr. Caballero was an
illegal alien who must leave voluntarily or face deportation.

''If he's here illegally he will be deported unless he goes home first,'' said
Arthur Shanks, deputy district director of the immigration service. ''I
understand from somebody who spoke with him that he plans to go home for
Christmas, but if the I.N.S. gets nasty, he may go home for Thanksgiving.''

Mr. Shanks also said that Mr. Caballero's immigration status would not affect
his ability to collect his winnings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 14, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

On Giving Sanctuary

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words


The United States has a right and duty to protect its borders. It may prosecute
all violators including those like the Sanctuary movement who claim a moral
motive for smuggling in aliens from Central America. That's exactly the claim in
the trial now under way in Arizona. Regrettably, this case is clouded by the
Government's insensitive and probably unnecessary infiltration of a church with
a wired informant.

The Sanctuary movement argues that thousands of illegal entrants have been kept
out even though they are obviously refugees from political oppression. It
contends that immigration officials misclassify many foreigners as economic
rather than political refugees who would be subject to persecution in their
homelands.

Sanctuary leaders may clamor against the Government to broaden its definition of
a refugee, or to apply it more generously. But they have no right to confer
refugee status on anyone. When they violate the written law they are subject to
investigation, prosecution and punishment. Indeed, one way to measure the
integrity of those who would practice civil disobedience is in their willingness
to accept the consequences of their actions.

Yet it is precisely because the disobedience is founded on claims of conscience
that the Government has an added responsibility: to prosecute willful
violations, yes, but with restraint. In this case, the Government has instead
behaved with zeal. Why else would it secretively violate the sanctity of a
church to gather evidence about a movement that operates publicly?

For months, Jesus Cruz, posing as a volunteer for the Sanctuary cause, joined
the church leaders and lay workers in giving haven to illegal aliens. The
Immigration Service had recruited Mr. Cruz after investigating him for
commercial smuggling. He wore a concealed recorder and taped conversations with
Sanctuary workers in the Southside Presbyterian Church in Tucson. The trial
judge found the tactics ''unacceptable but not outrageous'' and rejected defense
motions to suppress the tapes.

The prosecution now says it will not use the recorded evidence, but in a curious
twist, the defense wants to use parts of it. Some conversations show members of
the movement in their most favorable light: expressing high motives for breaking
the law. Those motives, the Government correctly insists and Judge Earl Carroll
has correctly ruled, are irrelevant to whether movement members intended to
violate the law. But the prosecution, in portraying the defendants as common
smugglers, invites defense attempts to show uncommon motives.

Whatever the verdict may be in this case, the Government must maintain its
border rights, prosecuting, if need be, even highly motivated violators. But
Judge Carroll's rebuke is a stern reminder that this legitimate border defense
has to be waged by acceptable means.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 23, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

9-WEEK ALIEN TRIAL STILL HEARING FIRST WITNESS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Dec. 22


As the trial of 11 church workers charged with transporting illegal aliens
reached the end of its ninth week Friday, the first witness for the Government
was still on the stand under cross-examination.

Jesus Cruz, an informer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, faced
repeated questions about his infiltration of the church-based movement to help
people from politically troubled Central American countries into the United
States. The defendants, indicted in January based on evidence from Mr. Cruz,
include two Roman Catholic priests, a nun, a Presbyterian minister and church
lay workers who face up to five years in prison for each charge in the 45-count
indictment.

At issue in a complicated trial that was expected to last six weeks are
continuing legal and technical disputes over what the case is about. The
Government contends that the case involves ''an alien smuggling conspiracy'' and
that the Central American people aided by the church workers are ''economic
migrants.'' But the defendants say their faith compels them to provide sanctuary
to Salvadorans and Guatemalans who are ''political refugees'' fleeing
persecution in their homelands.

Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll has ruled, however, that religious
motivation and conditions in Central America are irrelevant defenses in an
alien-smuggling conspiracy case.

In a dispute with the judge Thursday, defense lawyers challenged his preventing
them from using the word ''refugee'' to describe the Central Americans aided by
the church workers. Defense lawyers complained that the prosecuting attorney,
Donald M. Reno, had been permitted to describe the Central Americans as
''illegal aliens.'' After extensive argument, Judge Carroll decided: ''From now
on, we will call them by name,'' not by either term.

Despite previous rulings, the judge has permitted limited discussion of
religious motivations and conditions in Central America, giving the jury a much
broader view of the case than the prosecution had presented. On Tuesday, the
jurors heard about a ''screening process'' employed by sanctuary workers to
determine whether the Central Americans seeking help were political refugees who
feared for their lives.

But when one of the defense attorneys, Robert Hirsh, tried to show how the
process worked by reading the transcript from an undercover tape, Mr. Reno
objected, calling it ''a blatant attempt to get in the most prejudicial and
self-serving statements.''

The transcript contained a conversation between one defendant, Philip
Willis-Conger, and a Guatemalan who described the conditions that led him to
leave his homeland.

Financial Gain Cited

As the trial was recessed Friday for two and a half weeks, it appeared that Mr.
Cruz might have damaged the Government's case. First, Judge Carroll ruled that
certain testimony by Mr. Cruz would be inadmissible because the authorities had
not made a ''good-faith attempt'' to find Central Americans said to have been
brought into the United States by the defendants.

Second, in challenging Mr. Cruz's credibility, sanctuary attorneys attempted to
show that he was motivated by financial gain; since his infiltration of the
movement began in April 1984, Mr. Cruz has been paid more than $18,000 by the
Government.

Under cross-examination, Mr. Cruz testified that he accepted $1,500 from
professional smugglers in unrelated cases in 1983. He also admitted smuggling
more than 400 Mexican farmworkers for personal profit between 1977 and 1979. In
addition, he admitted lying under oath to protect the prosecution's case in a
1982 trial.

Mr. Cruz's controversial role in infiltrating churches also came under fire when
defense attorneys tried to portray it as improper conduct by government in a
free society. In one instance, Mr. Cruz acknowledged attending the wedding of
Mr. Willis-Conger while wearing a recording device.

But in defending such undercover tactics last summer, Mr. Reno said the
Government could not ''hire choirboys'' to investigate conspiracies.

The cross-examination of Mr. Cruz is to continue when trial resumes Jan. 7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
A HAVEN FOR CENTRAL AMERICANS?

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 252 words


SAN FRANCISCO last week took the first formal step toward declaring itself a
sanctuary for illegal aliens from El Salvador and Guatemala. In doing so, it
joined a growing list of communities, including New York, offering symbolic
opposition to Federal policies in Central America.

San Francisco's Board of Supervisors gave preliminary approval to a resolution
that instructs city employees, including police officers, not to report illegal
immigrants from Guatemala and El Salvador as long as they do not violate other
laws. City officials estimate that 80,000 people from the two countries live in
San Francisco.

The campaign in favor of the resolution was led by a coalition of religious
groups seeking to persuade the Reagan Administration to grant asylum to
Salvadorans and Guatemalans in the United States. In the last year, the movement
has received formal support from 12 local governments in addition to New York
and San Francisco. They are: Berkeley, Calif.; Burlington, Vt.; Cambridge,
Mass.; Chicago; Ithaca, N.Y.; Los Angeles; Madison, Wis.; Olympia, Wash.;
Sacramento, Calif.; St. Paul; Takoma Park, Md., and West Hollywood, Calif.

Leaders of the drive concede that the campaign will have little practical effect
on aliens already here. Federal authorities say they do not have the manpower to
pursue all illegal residents, so they concentrate on those holding higher-paying
jobs that would otherwise go to American citizens. Both sides agree that the
movement has stimulated more immigration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Salvadoran and Guatemalan demonstrators outside City Hall in
San Francisco (UPI)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

OUR REFUGEE POICY IS ON TRIAL IN SANCTUARY CASE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 195 words


To the Editor:

I am saddened and dismayed by your editorial on the sanctuary trial in Tucson,
Ariz., in which 11 church workers are charged with transporting illegal aliens
(Dec. 14).

No one contests the right of our country to protect its borders. What is at
issue is whether our own Refugee Act of 1980 is being administered justly and
humanely. It is not.

Whereas fewer than 1 percent of Guatemalans and fewer than 3 percent of
Salvadorans are granted asylum under the terms of that act, more than 50 percent
of the applicants from Communist countries receive asylum. No impartial observer
can believe that the refugees we return to Guatemala and El Salvador are that
much more likely to escape torture and death than those we return to Communist
countries.

Sanctuary is a direct response to human tragedy in the face of the politically
biased administration of the Refugee Act by the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service. GARETH B. MATTHEWS Amherst, Mass., Dec. 14, 1985 The
writer, professor of philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, is
a member of the sanctuary committee of the Mount Toby Friends Meeting of
Leverett, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 5, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

'A FLOOD OUTSIDE OUR DOOR'

BYLINE: By Jack Rosenthal; Jack Rosenthal is the deputy editorial page editor of
The New York Times.

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 437 words


THE IMMIGRATION TIME BOMB The Fragmenting of America. By Richard D. Lamm and
Gary Imhoff. 271 pp. New York: Truman Talley Books/E. P. Dutton. $18.95.

IN the face of much ignorance, immigration excites much passion. Are illegal
aliens freeloaders who suck up welfare dollars? Or are they victims, whose pay
is docked for Social Security and other taxes that will never bring them a
nickel in benefits? There are experts to argue either side. Do illegal aliens
take jobs away from legal residents? Or do they do precisely the work that legal
residents scorn as ''junk jobs for chump change?'' Again, it can be argued
either way. Vehemence, in such an absence of knowledge, must erupt from a deeper
passion.

So it is with this tractual analysis by Colorado's iconoclastic Democratic
Governor in collaboration with Gary Imhoff, a Washington immigration researcher.
Their deeper passion concerns the growth of a population already straining world
resources. ''There is a flood of people rising right outside our door,'' they
say, electrified by the probable population increases that lie ahead just in the
Western Hemisphere.

The authors are surely vehement. They survey a roster of issues relating to
illegal aliens and make the worst assumptions about each - even to the point of
seeming contradiction. Immigration should be sharply curtailed because illegal
aliens are exploited pitifully in dirty jobs: ''The increasing dependence of
Sunbelt industries on illegal aliens is reminiscent of the dependence of the Old
South on slavery.'' Yet the alien tide must be curtailed because ''in fact,
illegals tend to take better jobs than we think they do.''

Still, even if the authors carry their arguments to extremes, they urge a remedy
well within the liberal-conservative consensus that has formed in the last
decade. It is called employer sanctions for short and constitutes the heart of
effective immigration reform. It is illegal for you, the illegal alien, to work
in this country but it is not illegal for me, the employer, to hire you. This
historic inequity is especially odious because ''to hire'' often means to
exploit. The reform bill by Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican,
pending in Congress would make the employer's behavior illegal also, restoring
justice to the law, deter illegal employment and deter the alien tide in a
reasonable way.

That's what Governor Lamm and Mr. Imhoff mean when they warmly endorse this
remedy. They are epigrammatic, and right, when they conclude that ''employer
sanctions do not require employers to enforce the law. They require employers to
obey the law.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 8, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Los Angeles City Council Softens Sanctuary Law

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 7


The City Council today rescinded a measure declaring Los Angeles a sanctuary for
political refugees after opponents argued that it was an invitation to illegal
aliens to break the law.

But the Council unaimously approved a compromise measure that reaffirms the
city's policy of not reporting to the Immigration and Naturalization Service the
legal status of crime victims, witnesses or those receiving certain social
services.

''There's no justification for us to unilaterally violate Federal law,'' said
City Councilman Ernani Bernardi, who led the move to repeal the measure.

Councilman Mike Woo, who wrote the original resolution, said he was willing to
compromise to avoid a backlash of anti-immigrant sentiment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 6, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SOUTH AFRICA WARNS IT MAY EXPEL ALIENS IF U.S. INVESTORS PULL OUT

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, June 5


A high-ranking official says the Government may expel more than a million black
workers if the United States pulls its investments from the country to protest
Pretoria's racial policies.

Casper Venter, an assistant to Deputy Foreign Minister Louis Nel, said Mr. Nel
issued the statement about possible expulsions at a time when economic sanctions
against South Africa were being considered in Congress.

The Government television reported that Mr. Nel said at a rally Tuesday night
that South Africa would evict the million blacks if the United States withdrew
its interests from the country. But Mr. Venter said that report went too far.

Mr. Venter said: ''He said that should the disinvestment campaign be successful,
and should there be a withdrawal of American investments in South Africa, it
could affect the South African economy, and it could lead to unemployment. Then
the Government would have to reconsider the position of the million foreign
workers who illegally work in South Africa.''

Two More Deaths Reported

He said there were ''just over a million'' blacks working illegally in South
Africa, most from neighboring nations. He said they slipped across the border
and took low-paying jobs as domestic servants and farm laborers, often working
for less than what South African blacks demanded.

Mr. Venter said the Government was not considering action against the 350,000
black foreigners who work legally in South Africa.

Meanwhile, two more deaths were reported in black rioting against the country's
racial segregation policies. In one incident, a black policeman, Detective
Constable S. James, was stoned to death and his body set on fire in a town in
eastern Cape Province, the police said. Policemen and other Government workers
have been called collaborators by many blacks involved in the disturbances.

The police said an unidentified person died in a segregated black township near
Port Alfred, also in the eastern Cape, when a mob attacked a black policeman's
home.

The officer was not at home, the police said, but a member of his family fired a
gun at the crowd, killing one person.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 11, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

JUDGE TO RULE IF CYANIDE OR BAD HEART WAS KILLER

BYLINE: By E. R. SHIPP, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: MAYWOOD, Ill., June 10


Was Stefan Golab murdered by the ''callousness'' of the company he worked for,
as prosecutors said in closing arguments today? Or did he suffer a heart attack,
as the defense contended?

After hearing 61 witnesses since trial began here April 15, Judge Ronald J.P.
Banks must decide what killed Mr. Golab, a 59-year-old former steelworker from
Poland who came to the United States in November 1981 and remained illegally
after his visa expired.

Judge Banks, of the Cook County Circuit Court, says he expects to issue a
decision Friday in what lawyers on both sides say is the first case of murder
charges resulting from a work-related death.

The prosecution charges that the company, Film Recovery Systems, deliberately
hired illegal aliens who could not speak English and did not inform them that
they were working with dangerous chemicals, including cyanide, in reclaiming
silver from spent X-ray film in its plant in Elk Grove Village, a Chicago suburb
just north of here.

The corporation and a related concern, Metallic Marketing Systems, have been
charged with involuntary manslaughter. Its president, Steven J. O'Neil, 31;
plant supervisor, Charles Kirschbaum, 37, and plant foreman, Daniel Rodriguez,
28, have been charged with murder, on the theory that company practices
''created a strong probability of death and great bodily harm.''

Charges are also pending against Michael T. McKay, an owner and vice president
of the company, who lives in Utah. Last year, Gov. Scott M. Matheson refused to
extradite Mr. McKay for trial in Illinois.

'All for the Sake of Profit'

In the past, corporations and company officials have been charged with
involuntary manslaughter or criminally negligent homicide, but such prosecutions
seldom occur.

The Cook County State's Attorney's Office, which is prosecuting the case, has
maintained that the defendants knew that the plant reeked of hydrogen cyanide
fumes, that workers frequently complained of illness, that the workers were
unaware of the dangers involved in working with cyanide, and that the workers
had not been furnished with safety equipment while working around the bubbling
vats.

In closing arguments this afternoon, Jay C. Magnuson, an assistant state's
attorney, accused the defendants of ''callousness, disregard of human lives, and
exposure to dangerous products all for the sake of profit.''

''These men knew what was happening in the plant,'' Mr. Magnuson said. ''When
these defendants chose to play the Russian roulette game, that substantial
probability became fact.''

This ''may be a novel legal case,'' he said, ''but it is an old story'' of poor,
uneducated people being exploited by people who were more educated, more
privileged and more wealthy.

The defense argued that the procedures followed at Film Recovery were similar to
those at other industrial settings, that no workers had ever suffered serious
injury from the time the plant opened in 1976 and that no governmental agency
that had inspected the premises - from the Elk Grove Village Public Health
Department to the Federal Environmental Protection Agency - had ever warned it
of any dangers.

Furthermore, argued Elliott M. Samuels, a defense lawyer for Mr. Kirschbaum,
there was no evidence presented by the prosecution that the hydrogen cyanide gas
reached lethal levels. Nor, he said, was there evidence that the defendants
acted recklessly, that is, that their behavior was ''a gross deviation from the
conduct that could be expected in such situations.''

Roman Guzowski, a former worker for Film Recovery until it closed in the spring
of 1983, was brought back from Gdansk, Poland, to testify.

Texas Expert for Defense

Mr. Guzowski said he too had remained here after his visa expired in 1980. After
describing how he had become injured while working at the plant, Mr. Guzowski
said that he and Mr. Golab had asked to be transferred to another part of the
plant just six days before Mr. Golab's death.

According to testimony of other workers, Mr. Golab was working over one of the
vats on Feb. 10, 1983, when he became ill and was taken outside for air. It was
there that he died.

Dr. Robert J. Stein, the Cook County Medical Examiner, testified that the cause
of death was ''acute cyanide toxicity'' resulting from inhalation of hydrogen
cyanide gas. The defense's expert, Dr. Vincent DiMaio, the chief medical
examiner for Bexar County, Tex., said a heart attack killed Mr. Golab.

The corporations, both of which are defunct, each faces a maximum fine of
$10,000. The individual defendants each face a maximum of 20 to 40 years in
prison.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 13, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SMUGGLER WITNESS SAYS HE KEPT CASH

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz. DEC. 12


The key witness in a Federal trial charging alien smuggling testified today that
the Government allowed him to keep $1,500 given to him by professional smugglers
in unrelated cases in 1983.

The witness, Jesus Cruz, spent nine months as an undercover informer, gathering
evidence against 11 church workers who are on trial here for conspiracy to
smuggle, transport and harbor Central Americans. The defendants, who say they
were providing sanctuary to the aliens, include two Roman Catholic priests, a
nun, a Presbyterian minister and church workers.

In his second day under cross-examination, Mr. Cruz indicated he had earned
$18,000 for work on this case, $17,000 more than he received from the Government
for his work on at least four other cases in 1982 and 1983. However, in the
other cases, Mr. Cruz said, he was also paid $1,500 for smuggling aliens, which
the Government allowed him to keep.

''You mean you didn't turn the money over to the Government as evidence?'' a
defense lawyer, Robert Hirsh, asked.

''I would report it,'' Mr. Cruz responsded.

Says He Kept No Records

Referring to James A. Rayburn, a Federal Immigration Service investigator, Mr.
Hirsh then said: ''You would report that you had earned that money to Mr.
Rayburn and he would tell you it was all right to keep it?''

Mr. Cruz said yes. Asked whether he had kept records of the money paid to him by
smugglers, Mr. Cruz said no.

On both direct and cross-examination, Mr. Cruz testified that he had lied to the
defendants to gain their trust. When asked today, Mr. Cruz said he had attended
the wedding of one defendant, Philip Willis-Conger, at his invitation.

''Were you wearing a body bug during that wedding?'' Mr. Hirsh asked.

''I had it on me but I did not use it,'' Mr. Cruz answered.

Mr. Hirsh then asked Mr. Cruz if he had taken communion at the wedding service,
but the prosecutor, Donald M. Reno, objected. After dismissing the jury, Federal
District Judge Earl Carroll sustained the objection, saying Mr. Hirsh's question
was ''inappropriate, clearly inflammatory and prejudicial.''

He Is Threatened With Contempt

When a defense lawyer, James Brosnahan, protested that the defense should be
allowed to question Mr. Cruz about what he had done ''to fool those people that
he's attempting to gather evidence from,'' Judge Carroll threatened him with
contempt. Judge Carroll had earlier barred any statements before the jury
involving religious beliefs.

The defendants enjoyed one of their few victories when Judge Carroll ruled that
Mr. Cruz could not testify about statements made by Central Americans the
prosecution says were brought into the United States by the defendants.

Judge Carroll ruled that the Federal authorities had not made a ''good faith
effort'' to find the Central Americans. He cited a memorandum from Benedict J.
Ferro, district director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Buffalo that called the Government's effort to find the Central Americans a
''pro forma visit and only for the purposes of satisfying the court.'' The Judge
then said that in the absence of these witnesses such testimony would be hearsay
and not admissible.

He Says He Threw Out Notes

Mr. Cruz, who appeared more nervous than in previous testimony, said he kept no
notes of his activities as an informer. He told Mr. Hirsh that in all pretrial
conferences with Mr. Reno and Mr. Rayburn he relied only on his memory.

But later, Mr. Cruz admitted he had kept notes on names, phone numbers and
license plate numbers he had prepared in his investigation. When asked by Mr.
Hirsh whether he ''threw these notes in the garbage'' in December 1984, Mr. Cruz
said yes. Defense lawyers have sought to obtain the Cruz notes as evidence.

Under cross-examination by Mr. Hirsh, Mr. Cruz also said he was paid for working
69 of 70 days, including weekends, from Aug. 9 to Oct. 17, 1985, when he said he
was helping with clerical work and making himself available for questions from
the prosecutor.

In one case, he said, he received $300 for photocopying documents over two
weeks. In another instance, he testified that on June 10, 1985, he received $200
for finding potential witnesses. However, Mr. Cruz acknowledged that he did not
know their names.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 2, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

SALVADORANS NAME WOMEN INC ASE ON ALIEN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Feb. 1


Three Salvadorans, witnesses at the trial of 11 religious leaders here on
charges of smuggling aliens into the United States, have testified that one of
the defendants helped them enter the country through a hole in the fence on the
Mexican border.

Testifying under assumed names, with the permission of Federal District Judge
Earl H. Carroll, the witnesses said they feared reprisals to family members
still living in El Salvador.

One of the witnesses, Francisco Nunez Nieto, 32 years old, testified Thursday
that a defendant, Peggy Hutchison, a lay worker for the Methodist Church, met
him in a church in Agua Prieta, Mexico, and helped him and his family cross the
border in July 1984. On Friday, Mr. Nunez Nieto's wife, Sandra, and his brother,
Jose Antonio, corroborated that testimony.

Arrested in New Jersey

Mr. Nunez Nieto was arrested in August 1985 at the Rutgers University campus in
Piscataway, N.J., near St. Michael's Episcopal Church, where he lived with his
wife, brother and three children. In exchange for his testimony, he has been
granted immunity from prosecution for entering the country illegally. His
application for political asylum is pending.

He testified that immigration service officials threatened to deport him and
made other ''verbal threats'' when he was arrested.

John Nixon, an Immigration Service investigator who arrested him, threatened to
send him back to El Salvador if he did not provide his real name, Mr. Nunez
Nieto said. He said he received other threats from another immigration
investigator, Lee Morgan. Judge Carrol prevented Mr. Nunez Nieto from descibing
what he said were the threats made by Mr. Morgan.

Nine-Month Investigation

Both agents participated in a nine-month investigation of the church-based
movement to provide sanctuary to immigrants from Central America, which led to
the indictments of the 11 on trial here. In addition to Mrs. Hutchison, they
include two Roman Catholic priests, a nun, a Presbyterian minister and other
church lay workers. All are charged with conspiracy to harbor, shelter and
smuggle Central Americans into the United States.

On Thursday, Mr. Nunez Nieto testified that he feared he would be killed if he
was sent back to El Salvador. He said he had worked as a medical intern in
clinics for refugees displaced by the Salvadoran civil war, and that he fled
with his family after they were arrested and detained in El Salvador on
suspicion of helping rebel troops.

Defense attorneys have said that Mr. Nunez Nieto was tortured in prison in El
Salvador, but the jury has not been allowed to hear any testimony to that
effect.

Even so, Mr. Nunez Nieto's testimony presented the jury with a broader picture
of conditions in Central America than Judge Carroll had previously allowed.

In earlier rulings, the judge barred testimony on murder, torture or political
strife in Central America, calling them irrelevant defenses in an alien
smuggling trial. The defendants have said that religious and humanitarian
concerns compel them to aid Central Americans fleeing persecution in their
homelands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 21, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Alien Is in Contempt In U.S. Smuggling Trial

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 142 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Feb. 20


A Federal Judge cited a Salvadoran woman for contempt of court today and ordered
her held under house arrest after she refused to testify in the trial of 11
people charged with smuggling illegal aliens into the country.

The woman, Elba Teresa Lopez, an illegal alien, refused to testify out of fear
that she would be deported and that relatives in El Salvador would be
persecuted, said her lawyer, Katrina Pflaumer.

District Judge Earl Carroll, who has ordered house arrest for three other
witnesses who refused to testify on the ground of religious freedom, said that
he gave Mrs. Lopez's concerns ''full credence'' but that she could not be exempt
from American laws. He earlier had given her immunity from prosecution. He
ordered her confined to her Seattle home for 18 months but stayed the order
until March 3 to allow time for an appeal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

68 Aliens Arrested in Florida

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 56 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., June 23


Border Patrol agents raided apartment complexes and trailer parks Friday and
arrested at least 68 aliens, most of whom were in the area to work its vegetable
fields, a Border Patrol official said. All but one of the aliens were thought to
be Mexicans in this country illegally, said Marshall Metzgar, the chief patrol
agent here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 30, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Unwise Move to Admit Foreign Farm Workers

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 388 words


To the Editor:

Inclusion of a provision for 350,000 temporary foreign workers in the
immigration legislation passed by the United States Senate (news artcile Sept.
20) represents a serious setback to immigration reform.

In essence, the provision would provide a labor subsidy to a well-heeled
special-interest group. A foreign-labor subsidy in addition to massive Federal
water subsidies and the Federal subsidy provided to specialty-crop growers by
the marketing orders law (news article Aug. 21) masks the declining
competitiveness of labor-intensive segments of American agriculture in global
markets. Labor-intensive agriculture in the United States is highly profitable
to a small number of corporations and family farms, but a heavy price is paid by
the public.

The potential costs of the Senate's provision regarding temporary foreign
workers also are to be measured in terms of democratic values and our foreign
relations.

Obviously, the provision would be detrimental to American labor. Black and
Hispanic farm workers would be the most adversely affected. However, most
important, such a provision would introduce an element of apartheid into the
American body politic.

The restricted status of foreign workers in the Senate bill would vary only in
degree from that of black migrant workers in South Africa. As it stands, the
status of foreign workers envisioned in the Senate bill - their rights and
protections -does not meet international norms and standards set by such
organizations as the International Labor Organization.

The Senate cannot expect to inaugurate a temporary-foreign-worker program
unilaterally. If there is need for such a program, then bilateral negotiations
between the United States and possible labor-supplying states are in order.

We should anticipate that nations such as Mexico and Jamaica will expect fair
and equitable treatment of their nationals recruited to work in the United
States. The history of the bracero program and Western European foreign-labor
policies suggests that such an expectation is unlikely to be completely realized
in practice.

The difficulties inherent in administering such programs in democratic, open
societies do not bode well for the U.S. MARK J. MILLER Associate Professor of
Political Science University of Delaware Newark, Del., Sept. 22, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 2, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

USE OF INFORMERS QUESTIONED IN INQUIRY ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, March 1


To those at Tucson's Southside Presbyterian Church, Jesus Cruz was a kindly,
deferential old man who seemed delighted to help with the work of moving Central
Americans into this country and sheltering them from arrest as illegal aliens.

But court records and farm union officials say that Mr. Cruz, a chubby, baldish
man with playful eyes and ''a nose like an eagle,'' was a transporter of illegal
aliens until the Federal Government turned him into an undercover informer.

The records name Mr. Cruz and Salomon Delgado, who had a similar background, as
the men who taped 100 hours of conversations about the work of the movement for
sanctuary for aliens.

The conduct of 10-month undercover investigation of the church organization, and
the background of the informers who took part in it, have become the focus of
increasing debate over whether the inquiry violated the separation between
church and state.



Church-State Debate

''The surveillance and infiltration'' of the church-based sanctuary movement was
protested in Washington Thursday by 200 leaders of Roman Catholic, Protestant
and Jewish denominations. They appealed to Congress to investigate both the
surveillance and the Reagan Administration's refusal to offer asylum to the
aliens.

The church leaders and activists in the sanctuary movement maintain that the
United States is itself acting illegally when it denies political asylum to
people coming into this country from El Salvador and Guatemala. Both countries
receive military aid from the United States.

The Administration, including President Reagan, has maintained that the aliens
are simply migrants seeking work. Church workers who help them, the
Administration says, are no more than smugglers and harborers of illegal aliens.
Mr. Reagan also contends that the sanctuary movement is politically motivated.

But leaders of the movement maintain that they are selected for prosecution
because they question American policy in Central America, not because they are
bringing in undocumented aliens.

Extensive Undercover Effort

Last spring the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service began an
extensive effort to infiltrate the sanctuary movement at Tucson Southside
Presbyterian Church, where it originated. Two agents supervised the undercover
operation, in which Mr. Cruz and Mr. Delgado were key players.

Posing as concerned Christians, the two gained the trust of movement leaders and
workers who transported Central Americans. They wore concealed tape recorders
into the church, gathering evidence there and elsewhere that resulted in 71
charges of conspiracy and transporting and harboring illegal aliens against 16
defendents, including Roman Catholic priests and nuns, a Protestant minister and
lay workers. If convicted, each faces a fine, a prison sentence of up to five
years or both.

In addition to the legal question, sanctuary leaders and others contest what
they believe is the ''impropriety'' of using people who illegally transported
aliens for money to inform on people who did the same thing out of religious
conviction.

Both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Delgado became witnesses for the Government in 1980 after
they were implicated in transporting illegal aliens to a Florida ranch.

People involved in the immigration service undercover operation ''are probably
smuggling more people'' than the sanctuary workers, said Lupe Sanchez, who has
in the past cooperated with immigration service investigations of the more
vicious and exploitative smugglers of aliens, commonly known hereabouts as
''coyotes.''

Mr. Sanchez is founder and director of the 10,000-member Arizona Farm Workers
Union, a well-organized group of migrant workers. He says 80 to 85 percent of
them lack immigration papers.

An Illegal Fact of Life

Being shifted from one employer to another as growing seasons change is a
regular part of the life of an illegal alien who does farm work. Usually, when
long distances are involved, such as from Arizona to Florida, the recruiting and
transporting is done by the coyotes.

Migrants accept the coyote as a fact of their illegal existence. Usually, the
grower who is seeking a crew of migrant workers pays the fee to the coyote to
recruit and transport them, $200 to perhaps $600 each, depending on the length
of the job and distance traveled.

The grower usually deducts the fee from the migrant's pay, and in some cases
migrants end up owing the grower money after a month's work. Or the grower may
send the migrants to another grower for money when his own season is over,
recovering even more of their wages.

Mr. Sanchez said both Mr. Delgado and Mr. Cruz had recruited workers for a
Florida rancher at fees of $350 to $450 for each worker. The Government later
investigated the grower, whose use of illegal aliens, Mr.  Sanchez said,
amounted to little more than ''slave labor.''

Witnesses for Government

According to depositions and court papers in the case, Mr. Cruz and Mr. Delgado
became witnesses for the Government. Neither was indicted and both have worked
as informers for the immigration service's antismuggling unit off and on ever
since.

In depositions, both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Delgado admitted that they had transported
undocumented workers and had been paid by the grower.

Neither Mr. Delgado nor Mr. Cruz is an American citizen, but Mr. Cruz has held a
resident alien permit since the 1950's. Mr. Delgado's status could not be
learned. James A. Rayburn, chief of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
antismuggling unit in Phoenix, who recruited both informers, refused to discuss
Mr. Delgado's status. Mr. Rayburn said that he would not discuss the involvement
of Mr. Cruz or Mr. Delgado in either the sanctuary investigation or earlier
operations in which they were involved ''because they overlap.''

Mr. Rayburn also declined to discuss what happens to money paid by growers to
informers who recruit undocumented workers.

In the case involving the Florida grower, the union brought a civil suit that
was settled out of court for $120,000 by the grower, and the union said the
money was returned to the workers who could be identified and located.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 24, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

4 Poisoned by Mushrooms

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 31, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 36 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, March 23


Two illegal aliens who ran out of food and money and ate wild amanita, or death
angel, mushrooms, unaware that they were extremely poisonous, died today,
officials said, and two others were critically ill.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 7, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

RISE IN BAR KILLINGS ANGERS HOUSTON HISPANIC DISTRICTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 6


Arriving early this morning at a barroom in a Hispanic district where a gunfight
had been reported, police officers found on the sidewalk the bullet-riddled body
of Adan Alfredo Lazo, a 30-year-old Salvadoran.

Inside the bar, El Rio Grande on Houston Avenue, the officers say they saw the
owner mopping up what looked like blood. But he and six waitresses, all
Salvadorans, told the police they had not seen a thing. And this morning Officer
P. J. Guerrero was on the case, ''rattling doors,'' as he put it, to find
someone who would talk.

For Houstonians, it was a familiar story. Almost daily they awake to news
reports of still another barroom fight in the Hispanic neighborhoods, often
involving a killing. Families in the impoverished barrios are weary of bullet
holes in their homes and increasingly angry at finding themselves living amid
such violence.

Incidents like last night's are stirring growing outrage in all areas of
Houston, as well as in San Antonio, Corpus Christi, El Paso and other Texas
cities where an influx of illegal aliens, mostly single young men, from Mexico
and Central America is straining the Hispanic social fabric.

In response to pressure from these communities, agents of the Texas Alcohol and
Beverage Commission have spent the last four weekends sweeping through Houston's
cantinas, as the beer-and-wine bars are called, making more than 450 arrests for
intoxication, possession of weapons or narcotics and sales to minors.

'Concentrating on This Area'

''I am concentrating my entire force on this area - we are doing nothing but
this until they get relief,'' said Gene Harris, the district alcohol commission
supervisor for Harris County, which includes Houston.

Meanwhile, Roman Martinez, a 26-year-old advertising man who represents the
teaming Houston barrio in the state House of Representatives, has introduced a
package of 10 bills that would make it easier for the authorities to close bars
where violent incidents occur regularly. ''I have made this my No. 1 legislative
priority this session,'' he said. Three of his bills have passed the House and
await Senate action.

Last year, according to the Houston Police Department, 35 percent of the city's
492 murder victims were Hispanic residents of a city that is only about 17
percent Hispanic. Informal studies suggest that the largest number of killings
occur in or near bars, often for trivial reasons. The patrons of these bars come
from a culture in which a cherished fantasy of young men is owning a weapon and,
in the words of Raul Correa, a spokesman for the Houston Police Department,
''getting even is the name of the game,'' The Police Department has a 15-member
squad that does nothing but investigate Hispanic murders.

The proliferation of shabby cantinas - in some places three to a block - is
increasingly irritating Mexican-American families in Houston. According to Mr.
Martinez, these places attract mostly single young men, recent arrivals, who
have ''nothing else to do on weekends.''

Under Representative Martinez's bills, any location closed twice by the alcohol
commission would not be allowed to operate for one year. He would also
automatically close for 30 days any bar in which there is a murder or an
attempted murder, post notices at any location before a license was issued, to
allow the community to register any protest, and require local police agencies
to give the alcohol commission all reports of criminal incidents at bars. ''We
are trying to build administrative cases to close these joints down,'' Mr.
Martinez said.

Friction Between the Agencies

The killings have caused some friction between the alcohol agency and the
Houston Police Department, which has charged that the alcohol officials have
been lax in monitoring the places they license. Mr. Thomas said that he had only
30 people, including supervisors and office workers, to police 10,000 drinking
establishments.

Killings, he said, have been a longstanding problem, but his agency has given
them new attention because ''the problem has been brought to our attention by
the community - they are rightful concerns.''

Mr. Correa of the Police Department, who is also a member of the
Mexican-American Chamber of Commerce, said the cantinas produced intense fear
among the families in the near North Side and East End of Houston. He said the
bars were often the site of ''spontaneous'' homicides by illegal aliens, some of
them from El Salvador and other countries who feel a need to carry pistols for
protection because the police at home provide little protection.

''They feel if they are going to be victimized they are going to have some
protection,'' he said. ''They drink, they have money, they work day to day, and
don't have bank accounts. They pay the rent, send some money home and buy a
gun.''

Mr. Correa endorsed Mr. Martinez's legislation. But Betty Naylor, a lobbyist for
the Bar Owners Association of Texas, called it unnecessary, saying existing laws
were adequate if properly enforced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 2, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

5 Killed in Train Collision

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 52 words

DATELINE: CAMP PENDLETON, Calif., June 1


Five men who were believed to be undocumented aliens were killed when the car
they were pushing across a railroad crossing was hit by an Amtrak passenger
train, officials said today. ''The train was traveling between 75 and 80 miles
per hour,'' an official of the San Diego Sheriff's Department said today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 5, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MARIEL BOATMEN FACING FINES

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 4


The United States Government is filing a battery of lawsuits demanding more than
$100 million in fines from boat captains who ferried 125,000 Cubans to Florida's
shores in 1980, Federal officials said today.

The 1,100 lawsuits, which are being handled by Federal prosecutors in Miami,
seek payment of a $1,000 fine for each undocumented alien that boat owners
carried from the Cuban port of Mariel in the three-week emigration.

The fines could threaten the survival of many of the boat captains, operators of
small fishing and scuba diving businesses, officials said.

Government Resolve Shown

''It's unfortunate this should result from helping people escape from
Communism,'' said Frank Calzon of the Cuban American National Foundation, a
Washington group.

Leon Kellner, executive assistant United States attorney in Miami, said the
legal action aimed to demonstrate the Government's resolve to stem the rising
tide of illegal immigration, adding that all the lawsuits would be filed by the
end of this month to beat the five year statute of limitations on collecting the
fines.

''This Administraton is determined to show the world that we are taking control
of our borders,'' Mr. Kellner said. ''We just can't leave the door wide open and
unattended.''

The latest step by Federal prosecutors follows months of legal wrangling. Last
year a Federal judge in Florida struck down a Government fine levied on a group
of the boat captains, saying that a speech by President Jimmy Carter had been
widely interpreted as Government endorsement of the Cuban boatlift.

But a Federal appeals court recently overturned that decision, paving the way
for the Government's new lawsuits. Boat owners, meanwhile, have waged a legal
fight to block the move.

The mass exodus from Mariel started in late April 1980, when Cuba's Premier,
Fidel Castro, opened the door to all Cubans who wanted to leave. The pace of
emigration quickened with President Carter's announcement that Cuban refugees
would be welcomed with ''open hearts and open minds.''

But United States immigration officials soon became alarmed at the massive
influx of Cuban refugees and in mid-May Mr. Carter reversed his policy, ordering
a naval blockade to halt the boatlift.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 12, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

13 Illegal Aliens Are Held

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 56 words

DATELINE: GOLDEN BEACH, Fla., June 11


Thirteen illegal aliens, most from Bangladesh, were being held today at a
detention center after their boat drifted ashore here. The aliens, 11 from
Bangladesh and two from Sri Lanka, left the island of Bimini in the Bahamas with
the goal of reaching Miami, but their 23-foot boat had engine trouble, the
Border Patrol reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 4, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SALVADORANS FIND A HAVEN IN CANADA

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1030 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 3


A half-dozen refugees from El Salvador sit around a living room here, sipping
coffee and watching their children playing on the floor.

One man, now a dishwasher but 18 months ago a law student, tells of being
captured by the National Guard, thrown over a cliff and left for dead. A
freelance photographer tells of being blindfolded and imprisoned with no
explanation. A former university student says she found her house sacked,
grabbed her baby and ran until she reached Canada.

Most do not want their names disclosed, fearing for the safety of relatives. But
all would rather be here than in their war-torn homeland.

''To tell you the truth, the first day I was here was the first day I could
sleep in six years,'' Flora Barillas said. A friend added, ''You begin to
organize your thoughts for the first time.''

A Difference in Attitude

Unlike the United States, where an estimated 600,000 Salvadorans are living
illegally, Canada has welcomed these and other Salvadorans as official refugees,
a status accorded only a handful south of the border.

The policy reflects different attitudes toward Central America. Ottawa refused
to break relations with Cuba, and only last month restored aid to El Salvador
that had been cut off in 1981 because of concern about death squads.

Others see parallels with Canada's acceptance of fugitive slaves before and
during the Civil War, and its acceptance of draft dodgers during the Vietnam
War. ''Canada feels it is its responsibility to kind of soothe the hard edges of
American policy,'' Jeffry House, a Toronto refugee lawyer, said.

Last year, Canadian authorities said, 2,025 Salvadoran refugees were accepted
into Canada, compared with 1,752 a year earlier. They are usually accepted by
Canadian diplomats in San Salvador and neighboring countries, in camps in
Mexico, or in detention centers or consulates in the United States.

Some 733 who showed up at the Canadian border gained refugee status, about a
third of the number who applied. Other Salvadorans, however, are granted asylum
status at the border - a condition that does not involve the financial and other
benefits accorded refugees. Some, with the aid of United States church groups,
were passed northward in a latter-day version of the Underground Railroad.

Can't Be Sent Home

Most significant for all, particularly those granted temporary approval, is a
1981 program making it impossible to deport any Salvadoran who does not pose an
immediate threat to national security. Inspired by El Salvador's death squads,
it enables Salvadorans to work legally and progress toward becoming permanent
Canadian residents.

By contrast, the United States has accepted only some 200 Salvadorans as
official refugees - a group of political prisoners admitted last year. Most
Salvadorans in the United States did not apply for asylum, preferring to stay
illegally rather than risk being sent home.

Their reasoning is understandable. Just 328 of the 13,373 Salvadorans who
applied for asylum last year were accepted, Immigration and Naturalization
Service statistics show.

Refugee aid groups contend that the United States is not living up to its
international commitments to aid legitimate Salvadoran refugees, largely because
Washington backs the present Government in El Salvador.

''Both Canada and the United States have signed the United Nations Convention on
Refugees,'' said Nancy Pocock, a Quaker who has been active in helping Latin
American refugees. ''The United States doesn't live up to it, and we do.''

Standards Called the Same

American officials reply that they examine each case individually by the same
standards as Canada. They say that the United States position is fundamentally
different in that it is already home to hundreds of thousands of illegal
Salvadoran immigrants.

''It's a lot easier to be sanctimonious if you don't have that situation
yourself,'' a State Department official said.

But the fundamental American argument is that most Salvadoran exiles are
pursuing economic gain, rather than fleeing political persecution. If safety
were the major concern, they could have stopped in any of the two or three
countries most passed through to reach the United States, American officials
suggest.

Officials here largely agree that this country is generally not the first choice
of refugees accepted by Canada at the border or at United States detention
centers. ''We only get those who have exhausted their legal remedies,'' Raphael
Girard, Director of Refugeee Affairs, said.

California Draws Many

Refugees themselves say many would prefer to be in Los Angeles illegally than
here legally. Southern California is estimated to be home to more than 250,000
Salvadorans, providing a much broader community.

They say the weather there is closer to that of Central America. They add that
work is more available because so much of the economy is based on illegal labor
and that the various Canadian Government welfare programs for refugees sometimes
seem demeaning.

''In a way, you feel like you're begging from them,'' one man said.

United States officials suggest that the preferred solution for some Salvadorans
is to seek refugee status in Canada, and then sneak into the United States to
live. If caught by immigration officers, they can demand to be deported to
Canada, a ploy that often works, the Americans say.

The cultural alienation refugees feel as they watch their children speaking
English, eating Big Macs and growing up without much memory of the homeland is
clear. Most come from rural backgrounds and say they want to go home at the
earliest opportunity.

Family Is Missed

''My highest hope would be to be able to go back in security,'' said Oscar
Martinez, a lawyer who has worked here at a succession of menial jobs. ''It's
terrible not to be with your family.''

Some try to fill the void at a coffeehouse called the New Trojan Horse, where
the clatter of happy Spanish conversation fills Sunday afternoons and spicy
pupusas, made of tortillas, are the favored food. It sometimes does not seem
enough.

''You can't bring five million Salvadorans to Canada,'' a young woman said
sadly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Vita Cuadra and her son; photo of Luis Garcia with his wife
and children (Canada Press)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 24, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Del Mar Track Cancels Racing

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44, Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: DEL MAR, Calif., Aug. 23


Officials at the Del Mar race track canceled the Saturday race card after the
United States Border Patrol raided the track early today, arresting about 100
illegal aliens working as stablehands.

The card had been in jeopardy because of a boycott by horse trainers and the
exodus of hundreds of undocumented aliens working in the backstretch. Trainers
said only 25 horses had been entered for Saturday's nine races. A minimum of 54
horses were needed.

About 160 agents executed a search warrant before 6 A.M. today at the track. The
Border Patrol estimates that one-third to one-half of the 3,000 workers on the
backstretch are illegal aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

EDUCATION WATCH;
IN LOS ANGELES SCHOOLS, IT'S ALMOST STANDING ROOM ONLY

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Like most such systems, the Los Angeles Unified School District found the 1970's
a painful time of retrenchment. Schools were closed, teaching staffs were cut
and enrollment plummeted because Americans had decided to have fewer children.

This month, Harry Handler, the district's superintendent, made it clear that the
school system here - the nation's second largest after New York City's - had
entered a new era. Enrollment is growing so fast, he announced, that within five
years all of the district's 618 schools will have to operate year-round.

Although the rising enrollment reflects a small rise in the birthrate, school
officials say the biggest factor by far is a continuing tide of immigrants from
Mexico and Central America, many of them illegal aliens, as well as a high
birthrate among Hispanic women who already live here. ''We don't differentiate
between students,'' Sheldon Erlich, a district official, said. ''The law says
'all students shall attend school.' It doesn't say 'all students except illegal
aliens.' '' Illegal aliens have been assured of admission to American public
schools since June 1982, when, in a 5-to-4 decision, the United States Supreme
Court struck down a Texas law that had permitted local districts to exclude
non-citizens. Justice William J. Brennan Jr., writing for the majority, said the
right to a free education ''extends to anyone, citizen or stranger, who is
within the state's borders.''

The rise in the number of Hispanic students in Los Angeles schools has been
dramatic. In 1968, when the district's enrollment in kindergarten through high
school peaked at about 650,000, 53.7 percent of the pupils were non-Hispanic
whites; 20 percent were of Hispanic origin; about 25 percent were black, and
students of Asian ancestry made up most of the balance. In the 1984-85 school
year, the proportion of Hispanic and non-Hispanic white students was virtually
reversed: Hispanic pupils made up 52.2 percent of the enrollment; non-Hispanic
whites, 19.7 percent; blacks, 20.1 percent, and students of Asian ancestry,
about 8 percent. Hispanic children are expected to constitute an even larger
proportion of the enrollment. They account for more than 60 percent of the
primary students in Los Angeles schools. And last year, county officials
reported that more than two-thirds of the women giving birth in public hospitals
were illegal aliens of Hispanic origin.

Enrollment in the Los Angeles schools, after bottoming out at about 529,000
students five years ago, has climbed to almost 579,000 this year. In announcing
that the district would have to begin using all of its schools 12 months a year
to accommodate the growth, Mr. Handler estimated that enrollment would go up by
70,000 in the next five years. Under the new program, district officials say
pupil might attend either three consecutive 12-week quarters or four 9-week
segments, with about one third attending school during the summer.

No one knows how many illegal aliens live in California; some demographers have
put the number at close to a million, or about half the total estimated to be
living in the country. Whatever their numbers, illegal aliens are having a
growing impact on California's educational politics. Until the recent surge, the
Los Angeles school system was much like a factory facing a recession. The
enrollment decline brought with it big losses in state grants, which are based
on average daily attendance, making it difficult to pay teachers higher salaries
and meet other expenses. The rising Hispanic population, including the children
of parents who entered the country illegally, is providing schools with a
windfall while giving lobbyists for teachers and school administrators a new
constituency as well as a vested interest in maintaining the flow of illegal
aliens. For each student they enroll, citizen or not, districts receive
$2,379.57 a year from the state, plus Federal revenue based on attendance.

'History of Neglect'

Aware of their growing influence, the parents of Hispanic pupils are starting to
demand more in return. In a blistering report released this month, a panel
composed largely of Hispanic leaders assailed what it called ''a history of
institutional neglect of Hispanic students'' in California that it said was
reflected in a dropout rate of nearly 50 percent, scores on proficiency tests
that run far below statewide averages and low rates of enrollment at state
universities.

But Los Angeles school officials say it will be difficult to do anything about
large class sizes - a common complaint - while overcrowding is the most pressing
problem. In fact, the district has sought to relax the provisions of a
desegregation order that limits class sizes at schools in some minority
communities. But that plan ran into an obstacle last week. The United States
Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal of a lower court decision that would
allow the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to go to
Federal court in an attempt to prove that the district has discriminated against
black students since 1969. School officials said they did not see how they could
scale back the desegregation plan when they must try to prove that they have
abided by its main provisions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Hispanic fifth-graders in Los Angeles classroom (NYT/David
Strick)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 3, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

RECORDS SHOW U.S. SUSPECTED RADICAL TIES IN GROUP AIDING ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Oct. 31


The Government has long said that its prosecution of people involved in the
movement to help Central Americans enter the United States is nothing more than
a simple case of alien smuggling. But court documents indicate that some
investigators originally suspected the movement had Marxist leanings and was
possibly transporting terrorists.

The documents are part of the record in a Federal District Court case against 11
people charged with helping aliens enter the country illegally. Jury selection
is expected to be completed by the middle of next week.

The chief prosecutor now discounts suggestions that the movement was tinged with
Marxism, seeing it as the work of a possibly overzealous informer, and he says
there is no reason to believe that terrorists were being brought into the United
States.

But the defendants and other critics of the nation's Central America policies
say the Government seeks to tar their movement with radicalism in an effort to
harass and silence it.

The defendants, who acknowledge that they have transported and sheltered aliens
from Central America, say that religion motivates their effort to provide
sanctuary to people who they believe face political persecution in their own
countries.

'Guise of Religious Beliefs'

But one of the court documents, a request to start the undercover investigation
that eventually led to the Federal indictments here, maintained that the
sanctuary movement was ''motivated by a strong political philosophy under the
guise of religious beliefs.''

That request, by James A. Rayburn, chief of the Phoenix office of the
antismuggling unit of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said:

''It is believed that most members of the movement would not resort to violence
to accomplish their goal; however, information has been received that indicates
some of the persons they have moved are terrorists.''

A nine-month investigation that followed included infiltration by Government
agents and paid informers who made clandestine tape recordings in churches and
other meeting places.

Asked last week for the justification for the terrorist allegation, Donald M.
Reno, the assistant United States attorney who is the special prosecutor in
charge of the case, responded, ''Well, I can't say anything except that
literature that is part of the pretrial proceeding may initially have led
persons to draw those conclusions.''

However, he said, ''I would not comment that those conclusions were in any way
accurate.''

Notes on a Pamphlet

He would not say what literature might have led investigators to believe
terrorists might have been transported by the movement, or why the Government
abandoned the allegation.

The Government's suspicions that the sanctuary workers now on trial, including
two priests, a nun and a Protestant minister, were motivated by leftist politics
more than by theology, is suggested by marginal notations on materials obtained
by the agents and informers that later became part of the court record in
pretrial motions.

In one of the documents obtained in the undercover investigation, titled
''Political and Legal Position of the Chicago Religious Task Force on Central
America,'' referring to a sanctuary group in Chicago, a number of passages have
been underlined and marginal notations inserted.

Several notations suggest the language in the document is ''Marxist'' or ''left
wing.''

A reference to ''solidarity'' is labeled ''Marx's'' and a reference to ''the
essential rightness of any effort by the poor and oppressed to gain their
freedom'' is characterized as ''left wing.''

Asked about the notations in a telephone interview, Mr. Reno noted the
Government's position that the characterizations were ''made by an informant,
not by a Government agent.''

Government's 'Political Lens'

Sister Darlene Nicgorski, a Roman Catholic nun who is one of the defendants on
trial here, said in an interview that the Chicago pamphlet was among materials
she gave one of the Government agents, John Nixon, who was posing as a
symphathetic volunteer.

She said that the next time she saw it it was attached to a warrant used to
search her home for four hours at the time of her arrest Jan. 16.

''I was kind of shocked to see that -what they center on, what they think is
important,'' she said. ''The Government is looking at this through their own
political lens.''

Sister Nicgorski and the other defendants maintain that they aid people from
Central America because these people face torture and death at home and that the
United States has a particular obligation to protect them because this country
shares responsibility for violent conditions in Central America.

The Government, however, says the Central Americans come here simply for better
economic conditions and are not entitled to political asylum.

Civil liberties groups like the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York say
they are increasingly concerned about what they maintain is harassment,
surveillance and intimidation of people who support the sanctuary movement or
who may be critical of American policy in Central America.

Most of the incidents they cite involve questioning of Americans returning from
trips to Central America, seizure of printed materials when they return,
allegations that mail from Central America, particularly Nicaragua, had been
opened or delayed, or allegations that members of Central American support
groups had been subjected to surveillance or questioning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 16, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

TRIAL OPENS FOR 11 WHO AIDED CENTRAL AMERICANS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Nov. 15


AThe Government today detailed its evidence against 11 people, including two
Roman Catholic priests, a nun and a Protestant minister, who are on trial in
connection with providing sanctuary to Central Americans in this country.

Repeatedly referring to ''this alien smuggling conspiracy,'' the chief
prosecutor, Assistant United States Attorney Donald M. Reno, said in his opening
argument that the ''underground railroad'' was a ''three-tiered criminal
enterprise.''

A minister, a nun and two church lay workers, he said, were ''the C.E.O.'s, the
chief executive officers,'' or the ''generals'' of the group that brought
undocumented Central Americans into this country and announced publicly that it
was doing so.

The 'Nogales Connection'

Underneath this top tier, Mr. Reno said, were two other tiers, of people who ran
the smuggling or transporting operation and those who operated ''staging'' areas
and ''safe houses,'' including two Roman Catholic churches in the sister cities
of Nogales, Ariz., and Nogales, Sonora, in Mexico.

Mr. Reno, over objections of defense lawyers, referred to this as the ''Nogales
connection.''

The religious leaders and church workers, whose activities are sanctioned and
supported by the national governing bodies of several denominations, including
the United Methodist Church and the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), maintain that
they brought refugees into the United States from war-torn Central America as a
matter of religious conscience and in protest of what they say is the
Government's own failure to honor its laws for granting asylum to political
refugees. The prosecution contends the trial is nothing more than ''an alien
smuggling case.'

Mr. Reno identified the ''generals'' of the enterprise as the Rev. John M. Fife,
45 years old, pastor of the Tucson Southside Presbyterian Church; James A.
Corbett, 52, a retired rancher who founded the ''underground railroad'' in 1981
in sympathy with Central Americans denied asylum in this country; Philip
Willis-Conger, 27, director of the Tucson Ecumenical Council's Refugee Task
Force, and Sister Darlene Nicgorski, 41, of the order of School Sisters of St.
Francis, who taught in Guatemala until 1980, when her pastor there was killed
and she returned to this country to work on behalf of Central Americans.

Fife 'the Principal Person'

Mr. Reno said Mr. Fife was ''the principal person in this tier of the
conspiracy.'' Mr. Fife's church was among the first to declare itself a
sanctuary for Central Americans, along with six others in the Bay Area of
California, on March 24, 1982, and the church has become the focal point of the
movement.

Organizers of the sanctuary movement say there are now 270 churches allied with
the movement in 33 states.

In his opening statement, Mr. Reno acknowledged that Sister Darlene was a Roman
Catholic nun, but pointedly said that he would refer to her as ''Miss
Nicgorsky'' and not as ''Sister,'' although he said he meant her ''no
disrespect.''

He referred to the two priests, the Rev. Ramon Dagoberto Quinones, 49, of
Nogales, Sonora, and the Rev. Anthony Clark, 37, of Nogales, Ariz., as
''Father,'' and to Mr. Fife alternately as ''Mr. Fife'' and ''Reverend Fife.''

Defense lawyers, who will not get to their own opening arguments until next
week, moved for a mistrial on the grounds of Mr. Reno's refusal to use the
religious honorific, and also for what they characterized as inflammatory
designations such as ''generals'' and ''Nogales connection.''

The presiding Federal district judge, Earl H. Carroll, denied the motions. He
has also denied motions for dismissals, based on various grounds, over the past
four weeks of jury selection and legal skirmishing that had delayed opening
arguments until today.

Although the opening arguments of the defense will not be presented until next
week, the lawyers have conceded that their planned defense had been effectively
''gutted'' by prosecution pretrial motions.

In months of legal maneuvering leading up to the trial, Judge Carroll granted a
succession of Government motions to sharply limit defense arguments and
evidence.

The defendants will not, for example, be allowed to present any defense relating
to religous motivation, none relating to conditions in Central America, none
relating to United States foreign policy and none relating to international law.


'Defense in Silhouette'

None of the defendants have ever denied that they were actively engaged in
clandestinely bringing undocumented Central Americans into this country and
hiding them from the Government in homes and churches.

Thus shorn of the intended basis of their defense, that they acted out of
religous motivation and in accord with what they believe the law on immigration
to actually be, the defendants are now limited to what Mr. Corbett, the
defendant, described as ''a defense in silhouette.''

That is the hope that the jury will somehow be able to perceive suggestions of
the motives of the defendants even though they are unable to present specific
arguments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 20, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CHURCH WORKERS AT TRIAL DEFEND AID TO ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Nov. 19


Lawyers for 11 church workers on trial here on Federal charges involving aid to
illegal aliens offered opening arguments today, stressing that their clients had
been motivated by religious and humanitarian concerns.

The defendants, facing criminal conspiracy charges, include two Roman Catholic
priests, a nun, a Protestant minister and church lay workers. They are charged
with conspiracy to smuggle, transport and harbor illegal aliens from El Salvador
and Guatemala.

Federal District Judge Earl Carroll has barred testimony about the defendants'
religious or humanitarian motivations, conditions in Central America, or United
States policy in the region. Despite this, he initially allowed defense counsel
to discuss motivation in opening statements and to depict conditions that drove
Central Americans from their homelands.

But the prosecutor objected, saying the arguments were ''deliberate violations
of your orders.'' Judge Carroll then threatened to cite the defense lawyers for
contempt if they continued to try to incorporate defenses he had ruled on.

Months of Undercover Work

The indictments came in January after a nine-month undercover operation by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The defendants face prison terms of five
years for each of the 45 counts.

Defense lawyers repeatedly attacked the Government's characterization of the
case as an ''alien smuggling conspiracy.'' They also assailed Assistant United
States Attorney Donald M. Reno's description of the operation as a ''criminal
enterprise'' made up of ''chief executive officers'' or ''generals'' and
''smugglers'' who ''took orders.''

''Mr. Reno tells you that this case is just a plain old alien-smuggling
conspiracy,'' Robert Hirsh, a defense lawyer, said. ''The evidence will show
that it is not.'' Holding up a photograph of the Southside Presbyterian Church,
whose congregation was the first to offer sanctuary to illegal aliens fleeing
Central America, he remarked, ''This is not a command post or a paramilitary
organization, but a real live church.''

'This Is Not an Army'

Ellen Yaroshefsky, another defense lawyer, said: ''This is not an army, and
there are no generals. There is only one leader here, and He is just beyond the
reach of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.''

Miss Yaroshefsky said her client, Wendy LeWin, became concerned for the plight
of Central American refugees after they gave accounts of repeated brutality in
El Salvador and Guatemala.

Defense attorneys also spoke about the character of Jesus Cruz, the Government's
key witness. Mr. Cruz, about 60 years old, became an informer for the Government
in 1978 after he was involved in transporting illegal aliens in Florida. He was
accused of transporting 400 farm workers, ''about 15 times what the numbers are
in this case,'' Mr. Hirsh said. Mr. Reno, in his opening statement Friday, said
there was nothing unusual about hiring Mr. Cruz to infiltrate the churches. ''An
informant is a man like Mr. Cruz,'' Mr. Reno said. ''He is someone who has
violated the laws of the United States Government.''

Due to Take Stand This Week

Mr. Cruz is expected to take the stand late Wednesday or Thursday.

In other arguments, defense lawyers said their clients believed they had been
acting properly in helping Central Americans after lawyers advised them about
the Refugee Act of 1980, which grants safe haven to people with ''a well-founded
fear of persecution'' at home.

Mr. Hirsh added that his client, the Rev. John Fife, wrote a letter to Attorney
General William French Smith on March 24, 1982, the day Mr. Fife's Southside
Presbyterian Church publicly opened its doors to Central Americans fleeing
persecution. Mr. Hirsh said ''there was no response to that letter,'' which
advised the Attorney General of the congregation's decision to offer sanctuary.

Instead, said Mr. Hirsh, the Government began surveillance of the movement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 4, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WITNESS SAYS FAMILY PAID PRIEST IN ALIEN CASE

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Dec. 3


The Government's key witness in the trial of 11 people accused of smuggling
Central American aliens into the United States testified today that the family
of some of the aliens gave money to one of the defendants.

The defendants, who maintain they are helping Salvadorans and Guatemalans in
danger of persecution, are charged with conspiracy to smuggle, transport and
harbor illegal aliens.

The defendants are part of a nationwide movement involving about 270 Protestant,
Catholic and Jewish congregations that offer sanctuary to Central Americans
Today's witness, Jesus Cruz, said he infiltrated sanctuary meetings in churches
in Arizona and Sonora, Mexico in a nine-month undercover operation directed by
the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Letters Containing Money

He testified that on two occasions in June 1984 he took letters containing money
from a Salvadoran family living in Phoenix to one of the defendants, Father
Ramon Dagoberto Quinones, pastor of Santuario de Guadalupe Church in Nogales,
Mexico. The church operates a shelter for Central Americans seeking to enter the
United States.

Mr. Cruz testified that the money amounted to $204 and 2,000 Mexican pesos. He
said one of the family's letters thanked Father Quinones for helping to smuggle
relatives from his church into the United States. The letters were from Julio
and Bertha Benavides and their children.

Mrs. Benavides was indicted in January on charges of conspiracy to smuggle,
transport and harbor illegal aliens. She pleaded guilty to a lesser charge.
When Father Quinones received the first letter, Mr. Cruz testified, he ''put the
money in his pocket, and he threw the letter in the wastebasket.'' The second
time, Mr. Cruz testified, Father Quinones pocketed the money, but then made a
telephone call to Hermosillo, Mexico to arrange transportation for other
relatives of the Benavides family.

Dispute Over Testimony

Lawyers for the defendants have said that the prosecutor, Assistant United
States Attorney Donald M. Reno, was trying to portray the defendants as people
seeking financial gain. Defense lawyers argued that they should be allowed to
counter those efforts with evidence of the defendants' religious and
humanitarian values.

Federal District Judge Earl H. Caroll, who is presiding in the trial, earlier
ruled out such evidence, but Robert Hirsh, a defense lawyer, said today that Mr.
Cruz's testimony ''opens the door'' to that kind of evidence.

The defendants, most defense lawyers and a number of spectators wore black today
to commemerate the fifth anniversary of the assassination of three American nuns
and a lay church worker in El Salvador.

Question on Warrant

Mr. Reno asked Judge Carroll for ''guidance'' over whether the Government should
serve a search warrant on the Riverside Church in New York City, which is
harboring a family from Guatemala. The authorities would use the warrant to find
one of the Guatemalans, who the Government says were smuggled into the country
by the defendants.

Mr. Reno's question came in the wake of defense allegations that the Government
was relying on testimony from Mr. Cruz rather than searching for aliens it says
the defendants smuggled.

Stephen Cooper, a defense lawyer, said it was''improper'' for Mr. Reno ''to ask
the court for guidance on how to conduct his own investigation.'' Judge Carroll
agreed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 8, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Syrian Stowaway's Bid For Asylun Is Weighed

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 7


The State Department will recommend next week whether a young Syrian stowaway
who leaped into the Mississippi River and requested asylum can remain in the
United States, according to the man's lawyer.

The stowaway, Mohamad Marie, 20 years old, told a hearing officer with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that he wanted to remain in the United
States, citing instances of religious persecution, said the lawyer, David
Kattan, one of three representing Mr. Marie.

Mr. Marie, speaking through an interpreter, told the hearing officer that he was
a Palestinian born in Syria and was a Sunni Moslem, Mr. Kattan said.

Darrell Goff, a Border Patrol agent in Baton Rouge, said Mr. Marie ''claims he
fears some kind of persecution if he goes back to Syria.''

Mr. Marie's lawyers said their client would be held in the Orleans Parish Jail
while his case was considered.

Mr. Marie asked for asylum Thursday after leaping handcuffed into the
Mississippi River from the Liberian-registered freighter Enard Hope. After
Border Patrol agents picked him up, the ship's agent arranged for him to fly to
Syria, but he made a commotion in Atlanta and airline officials refused to let
him on a plane. He was then returned to Louisiana, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

OUR REFUGEE POLICY IS ON TRIAL IN SANCTUARY CASE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 192 words


To the Editor:

In Arizona, where the sanctuary trial is being held, it is commonplace for
United States citizens to transport illegal aliens across the border, then
harbor, hire and exploit them. In practice, citizens are never prosecuted for
such acts because the use of illegals is an accepted mainstay of the local
economy.

Now, our Government is conducting an expensive and vindictive trial - rewarding
a known border crook to spy on church organizations, calling on the full
resources of the Federal Government to prosecute a few persons of conscience.

We cannot tolerate an administration of the law so selective that it always
looks the other way when venal self-interest is the clear motive, but brings
down a heavy hammer to smash persons trying to bring aid to victims of political
repression.

When the law is used so selectively and flagrantly to target members of a
political opposition, democracy bleeds. Such law rapidly loses the allegiance of
otherwise law-abiding people.

Under current policies, none of my ancestors (or those of most Americans) could
have immigrated to this country. TONY KELLY Evanston, Ill., Dec. 14, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 14, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

CHURCHES SUE U.S., ALLEGING ILLEGAL ACTS IN INQUIRY ON ALIENS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12


Two major religious denominations and four Arizona congregations sued the
Government today, asserting that it had unjustifiably intruded on their services
in its search for illegal aliens and those who help them.

The suit, which the churchs say is intended to ''defend the guarantees of
religious freedom,'' was filed in Federal District Court in Phoenix. It charges
that the Government, in authorizing secret tape recordings of church services
and infiltration of congregations suspected of harboring aliens, violated
constitutional guarantees of religious freedom, protection against unreasonable
search and seizure, and due process of law.

The Government says the infiltration was a normal and legal part of a criminal
investigation.

The suit, which seeks unspecified monetary damages and to restrain further
Government instrusion, was brought by the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) and the
American Lutheran Church and four of their congregations in Arizona. The
churches were infiltrated by Government agents and paid informers posing as
volunteers in the movement to transport Central Americans into this country and
shelter them in homes and churches. Many churches and religious activists across
the country maintain that his movement is a matter of religious conscience, to
provide sanctuary to people who would be persecuted in their own countries.

The Government, however, has asserted that such activity is simply illegal
alien-smuggling and that the religious argument has no bearing.

Although the two national church bodies, which together represent 5.4 million
members, have previously endorsed the religious concept of sanctuary,
maintaining that it applies to people fleeing war-torn Central American
countries, the suit filed today places the denominations in direct legal
opposition to the Government, sharpening the growing conflict over infiltration
of churches by investigators.

As a result of the nine-month undercover investigation of the churchs in 1984,
11 leaders of the sanctuary movement, including two Roman Catholic priests, a
nun and a Protestant minister, are now on trial in Federal District Court in
Tucson on multiple charges of conspiracy and transporting and harboring Central
American aliens.

Last summer the defendents tried, and failed, to have the case dismissed because
what their lawyers called ''outrageous Government misconduct.'' The trial judge,
Earl H. Carroll, said the intrusion into churchs ''sullied'' the Government's
case but did not warrant dismissal.

Threat to Church-State Relations

In the suit protesting the undercover operations filed today,t he church groups
maintain that while religious groups have no right to act in a manner ''above
the law,'' the Government acted improperly and with a chilling effect on
religion when it infiltrated the church services without a warrant.

''The relationship between church and state has been threatened,'' said the Rev.
James E. Andrews, stated clerk has been threatened,'' said the Rev. James E.
Andrews, stated clerk of the Presbyterian Church, at a news conference in
Phoenix after the filing. ''All American religious groups have a stake in this
matter.''

Named as defendents are the Government, the Department of Justice, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and individuals who authorized or took
part in the undercover infiltration of the churches, including two paid
informers who tape recorded church services as well as meetings in which plans
to smuggle Central Americans into this country and shelter them were discussed.

Ordinary Alien-Smuggling Case

The Government has said the aliens being aided are fleeing economic conditions,
not political persecution, and that the undercover operation and resulting
prosecution is nothing more than an ordinary alien-smuggling case with no
church-state overtones.

A number of church and political leaders have called for Congressional inquiries
into the undercover work.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey, the chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, on Sept. 26 wrote a pointed letter to Attorney General
Edwin Meese 3d noting that a section of the Attorney General's guidelines on any
undercover operation ''that may concern the activities of a religious
organization'' requires the prior approval of the Commissioner or Assistant
Commissioner of the immigration service as well as the concurrence of the
Assistant Attorney General in charge of the criminal division.

The letter asked if such authorization had been obtained and for a statement of
policy with respect to operations involving religious organizations. Mr.
Rodino's office said he had not received a reply to the letter. But in a letter
Nov. 20, 1984, Commissioner Alan C. Nelson of the immigration service told a
Congressman that ''the legal concept of sanctuary was eliminated from law in
England centuries ago and has absolutely no basis in American law.'' He
maintained, however, that ''I.N.S. ordinarily does not enter churches.''

In the letter to Representative George Miller, a California Democrat, Mr. Nelson
wrote that ''the United States has the most humane and generous system for the
treatment of those fleeing from persecution of any country in the world.''

Critics of refugee policy say that fact that only 3 percent of Salvadorans who
have applied for asylum in this country have been granted it suggests that the
United States is abrogating its policy of granting asylum to anyone suffering or
fearing persecution because of race, religion or political beliefs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition and January
18, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
A Washington dispatch on Tuesday, about a lawsuit filed against the Federal
Government by church organizations over sanctuary for illegal aliens, misstated
the position of the American Lutheran Church. The church neither endorses nor
opposes sanctuary; it permits congregations to take stands and has pledged to
support whatever position a congregation takes.

A correction in this space on Thursday, about a Washington dispatch on a lawsuit
against the Federal Government by church organizations, characterized the suit
incorrectly. It opposes, on constitutional grounds, Government agents'
infiltration of congregations harboring illegal aliens.

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 21, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

A SCULPTURE AND A CHARGE OF CENSORSHIP

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 20


A sculpture depicting a border agent searching an illegal alien atop a donkey
cart was removed the day it went on display outside the Federal courthouse here,
setting off a flurry of censorship charges as well as a lawsuit.

The display permit for the sculpture expired Friday, but that did not end the
dispute. Gregory Marshall, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union,
said he would file a new suit, this time seeking damages.

The sculpture, a wood representation by David Avalos, was removed Jan. 6 by the
General Services Administration on the order of Chief District Judge Gordon
Thompson Jr., who said it was a security risk.

The Government agency had granted the artist permission to display his work on
the plaza outside the courthouse through last Friday. Instead, agency crews
disassembled it the night of Jan. 6 after Mr. Avalos refused to remove it
himself.

The sculpture is an eight-foot-high replica of the type of donkey cart used as
backdrops for tourist photographs in Tijuana, Mexico. Where tourists strike
their poses, a border agent is depicted searching an undocumented worker. On the
cart steps are the words ''La Raza si, Migras no'' -''The People yes,
Immigration no.''

'Somebody Could Get in There'

Mr. Avalos set the work up 100 feet from the main entrance to the courthouse, as
approved by the General Services Administration in December. Within hours, Judge
Thompson wrote a one-sentence order to Paul Hamilton, the agency manager of the
building, saying, ''For security reasons, you are hereby directed forthwith to
cause the removal of the structure standing in front of the United States
Courthouse.''

Judge Thompson said in an interview that although the artist had put a fence
around the work, ''somebody could get in there and put something in it that
could do harm to the court.''

''That's baloney,'' Mr. Avalos said. ''Does he really expect people to believe
that someone's going to go through chain-link and barbed wire to plant a
thermonuclear device in it? This is just censorship.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 22, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Defense Asks Dismissal In Aid to Illegal Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Jan. 21


Defense attorneys for 11 church workers charged with helping illegal aliens
moved to dismiss the case today in the wake of evidence that appeared to
contradict the testimony of the Government's key witness.

The Federal prosecutor, Donald M. Reno, told Judge Earl Carroll in Federal
District Court that he had learned that the witness, Jesus Cruz, and Jose Rene
Argueta, a Salvadoran connected to the case, took a trip to Los Angeles in April
1985. Mr. Reno said Mr. Cruz was paid $300 for the trip by an agent of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Mr. Cruz then reportedly gave $150 to
Mr. Argueta.

The prosecutor's disclosure was given out of the presence of the jury. Under
cross-examination Mr. Cruz had said he had seen Mr. Argueta only briefly since
the church workers were indicted Jan. 14, 1985. Mr. Cruz also said he had been
paid only for his work on the sanctuary case.

The attorneys asked Judge Carroll to dismiss the case, saying that Mr. Cruz was
''a habitual perjuror'' and asserting that the money paid to Mr. Argueta and the
fact that he was recently reunited with family members who had arrived from El
Salvador indicated that he was an agent for the Government.

Mr. Reno said that Mr. Cruz's statement ''is consistent with the truth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 10, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN TELLS OF AID IN ENTERING U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Feb. 9


The Federal prosecutor continued to call Central Americans to the witness stand
last week in the case against 11 church workers accused of smuggling aliens into
the United States.

The defendants, who say their faith compels them to provide sanctuary to Central
Americans who contend they are fleeing persecution in their homelands, include
two Roman Catholic priests, a nun, a Presbyterian minister and church lay
workers.

On Tuesday, a Salvadoran witness called by the prosecuting attorney, Donald M.
Reno, implicated several of the defendants by describing how they helped him
enter the United States.

Jose Rene Argueta, 44 years old, of Long Island, told the jury that Ramon
Dagoberto Quinones, a Mexican priest who is one of the defendants, gave him the
passport of a dead priest in July 1984 to help him cross the border.

He also implicated Maria del Soccoro Pardo de Aguilar, a Mexican widow, and her
daughter, who is not charged with any crime. Mr. Argueta said Mrs. Aguilar gave
a Salvadoran friend the passport of her dead husband.

Link to Other Investigation

The witness added that Mrs. Aguilar's daughter helped him buy clerical clothing
so that he would resemble the photograph on the priest's passport. Under
cross-examination, however, Mr. Argueta said he wore only dark pants and a white
shirt, with no religious trappings, when he crossed into the United Stats.

On Wednesday, defense attorneys brought up Mr. Argueta's aid to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in a separate undercover operation last spring. He
acknowledged that he had been paid $290, which he said was for expenses in
connection with that case. As a result of that investigation, Mr. Argueta's wife
was arrested.

Mr. Argueta also acknowledged that he had been paid more than $2,000 in expenses
while waiting to testify in this trial.

His testimony about the undercover operation also contradicted the testimony of
Jesus Cruz, the key Government witness in this case. Mr. Argueta said that he
was encouraged to help in the Los Angeles inquiry last spring by Mr. Cruz, while
Mr. Cruz testified in December that he had not seen Mr. Argueta in 1985, except
''in the post office'' and ''in stores.''

Defense attorneys have tried to have charges in this case dismissed, contending
that Mr. Cruz had committed perjury.

Guatemalan Testifies

On Thursday the first Guatemalan witness took the stand, describing how he
traveled through Mexico to the United States border and east across the United
States. Joel Morelos-Lopez, 29, of Philadelphia, said he told one of the
defendants, ''It was my belief that I had the right to be here and to have
political asylum.''

The Government contends that the aliens are not political refugees eligible for
asylum but are coming to the United States for economic reasons.

Testifying under an assumed name because of fear of reprisal to family members
still living in Guatemala, Mr. Morelos said that he stayed at the home of one
defendant, Pardo de Aguilar, in June 1984 and that there he met another, Jim
Corbett. He said neither of them helped him to cross the border.

When asked by the prosecutor whether he had ever heard the name of another
defendant, Peggy Hutchison, in his travels to Tucson, Mr. Morelos replied, ''I
don't hear with one ear and that's because of the torture I was subjected to in
Guatemala.'' Mr. Reno objected to the comment.  Federal District Judge Earl H.
Carroll, who has ruled that testimony on torture and conditions in Central
America are irrelevant in the case, ordered the remark stricken from the record.

The trial will enter its 15th week on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 28, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

GROUP WOULD AID NICARAGUANS HERE

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 27


Nicaraguan civic groups here have begun a campaign to win permission for tens of
thousands of Nicaraguans in this country to live and work legally in the United
States.

''My compatriots are being forced to break the law because their immigration
status is in limbo,'' said Silvio Arguello, the head of the Nicaraguan
Humanitarian Coalition, formed recently by half a dozen professional and social
organizations in the Miami area.

Dr. Arguello and the coalition's co-chairman, Rene Molina, a former member of
the Chamber of Deputies of Nicaragua, said they were working to have thousands
of letters sent to the White House and would seek interviews with Vice President
Bush and Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d. They said the campaign, with an
initial budget of $50,000, would be financed by voluntary donations from wealthy
Nicaraguans in the United States.

Working Permits Revoked

''Over 90 percent of Nicaraguan refugees are now being denied their petitions
for political asylum in the United States,'' Dr. Arguello said. ''Their working
permits are revoked, so to live they have to work illegally. And some of those
who cannot find work because of these restrictions might have to steal to eat
since no welfare aid is available to them.''

About 140,000 Nicaraguans are in this country, according to leaders of the
Nicaraguan community here, and Dr. Arguello said only 20 percent had papers
allowing them to hold jobs.

Most of the immigrants came after the Government of Gen. Anastasio Somoza
Debayle fell in July 1979. The first to arrive here were close associates of
General Somoza and officers of his National Guard; middle-class professionals
were the next group to leave the country. In the last two years most of those
arriving from Nicaragua have been skilled and unskilled workers and young men
fleeing the military draft, according to social workers and Nicaraguan community
leaders. #60,000 in Miami Area In the Miami area, according to most estimates,
there are some 60,000 Nicaraguans, and about 600 more arrive each week, either
as illegal immigrants or as legal visitors who stay beyond the expiration date
on their visas. Community groups estimate that 50,000 others live in Los Angeles
and San Francisco and 30,000 elsewhere in the country.

After the fall of the Somoza Government, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service gave Nicaraguans who entered this country temporary work permits, which
were extended every six months for several years. The immigrants were later told
to apply for political asylum. After 1983 many Nicaraguans began receiving
notices from the immigration service denying them asylum and revoking their work
permits. New asylum applicants have not been given work permits, according to
Nicaraguan leaders here.

''There is a total incongruency between what President Reagan says and what the
State Department does,'' said Dr. Arguello, a lawyer and international business
consultant who was Vice President and Minister of the Economy of Nicaragua from
1963 to 1967. ''Mr. Reagan says that Nicaragua has a dictatorial, Communist
regime which oppresses our people, and the State and the I.N.S. say to thousands
of Nicaraguans that they were not persecuted at all.''

The main request of Dr. Arguello's coalition is that the Reagan Administration
give Nicaraguans temporary legal status, which is currently available to
refugees from Poland, Uganda, Afghanistan and Ethiopia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MAJOR NEWS IN SUMMARY;
A 1985 Model Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 256 words


After years of arguing about the nation's immigration law, the House and Senate
almost agreed on a broad package of revisions near the end of the 1984
Congressional session. But agreement eluded them and the bill died. Last week,
the Senate approved, 69 to 30, its 1985-model bill.

The legislation has several by-now-familiar features; it would beef up
enforcement of immigration rules, penalize employers who hire illegal aliens and
gradually grant legal residence to those who entered the country illegally
before Jan. 1, 1980. But the vote was considerably closer than the margins by
which earlier, similar measures had been adopted, reflecting sharp disagreement
over a temporary foreign worker program.

The program, proposed by Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California, and
adopted at the urging of Western fruit and vegetable growers, would allow as
many as 350,000 workers to cross the border. Without these field hands, said
Senator Wilson, many growers would ''watch their crops rot.'' The foreign worker
program was opposed by some of the bill's principal backers as well as by such
interested bystanders as Secretary of Labor Bill Brock and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.

After the final head count, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming and
chief sponsor of the legislation, called his handiwork ''a damn good bill that
reaches out and even gathers up more interests'' than earlier measures. The
House is not expected to take up its bill until early 1986, and its debate is
likely to be as heated as the Senate's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 22, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CHIEF U.S. WOTNESS TESTIFIES AGAINST 11 WHO AKDED ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Nov. 21


The Government's key witness opened his testimony in Federal District Court here
today by describing how he infiltrated a group of church workers who are charged
with conspiring to smuggle Salvadorans and Guatemalans into the United States.

The 11 defendants, who include two Roman Catholic priests, a nun and a
Presbyterian minister, are members of a nationwide group that has pledged to
offer sanctuary to Central Americans whom they say are political refugees. After
a nine-month undercover investigation by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, they were indicted in January on 45 counts of smuggling, transporting
and harboring illegal aliens.

The witness, Jesus Cruz, testified that he became a Government informer in 1980
after being implicated in an alien-smuggling ring in Florida. Mr. Cruz, a
58-year-old Mexican citizen who spoke through a translator, said he agreed to
work for the Government ''because I didn't want to be sent back to Mexico and I
was also worried that I might have to go to prison.''

He said that because church workers were involved in this case, he believed the
investigation was ''somewhat different'' from the eight or nine other
immigration cases in which he has worked for the Government.

The defendants contend they were motivated by religious and humanitarian
concerns to offer shelter to the Central Americans.

But immigration officials have maintained that the trial is nothing more than an
alien-smuggling case and that the participation of church workers does not make
it unusual.

Meeting With Priest

Mr. Cruz testified that he became involved with the group after meeting a parish
priest, the Rev. Ramon Dagoberto Quinones, in Nogales, Mexico, in April 1984. He
said he told Father Quinones ''that I sympathized with the movement and that I
wanted to offer my services as a volunteer.''

He testified that he was present in Mexico when another defendant, Philip
Willis-Conger, led a family of Central Americans to an opening in the
international fence with the United States. Mr. Cruz said Mr. Willis-Conger
pointed to the Sacred Heart Church across the border in Arizona and told the
Central Americans that ''once you get to the church you'll have no problem''
finding shelter.

At a news conference today, Father Quinones, one of the defendants, said he felt
betrayed by Mr. Cruz, whom he said he had once considered his friend. ''I have
felt pain today,'' Mr. Quinones said. ''I would like to be Christ and give him a
kiss in retribution for the kiss Judas gave Christ.''

According to the Federal records of the case, James A. Rayburn, the immigration
service investigator who directed the undercover operation, said one of Mr.
Cruz's initial duties in infiltrating the sanctuary movement was to ''pose as a
nonprofessional alien-smuggler motivated by a strong desire to support and help
the cause of the 'Underground Railroad.' ''

Mr. Cruz is expected to be on the witness stand for at least two weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 11, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
RefugeesContinue Hunger Strike

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 211 words


Eighteen Afghan refugees held for 10 months while seeking political asylum
refused to take food and water for a sixth day yesterday to protest their
detention by immigration authorities in New York, their lawyer said.

Five of 23 young men who began the hunger strike last Tuesday ended their
participation yesterday after the lawyer, Arthur C. Helton, urged them ''not to
hurt themselves'' and offered assurances that their applications for parole were
being pressed.

Mr. Helton, director of the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee
for International Human Rights, said the Afghans' detention was illegal because
it precluded their release pending adjudication of their asylum cases.

The Afghans, who were detained when they arrived last year without proper
documents, were isolated from others at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's detention center at 201 Varick Street in lower Manhattan. Officials
there declined to comment, and spokesmen for the immigration service were not
available.

The Afghans were lethargic and weak but were generally well treated, Mr. Helton
said.

Five of the Afghans, suffering dehydration, were given intravenous solutions at
St. Vincent's Hospital on Friday and were returned to the detention center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 31, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

22 Afghan Refugees Begin Hunger Strike

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 173 words


A group of 22 Afghan refugees has gone on a hunger strike to protest being
detained pending action on their applications for political asylum.

''We will continue our strike until we get results or until we die,'' Gafoor
Masoud, spokesman for the Afghans, said yesterday, the third day of the fast.

Mr. Masoud, 25 years old, fled Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, last year with
his wife and sister-in-law. They have been held by the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service since last September.

Mr. Masoud said 32 Afghan refugees were being held in the agency's Varick Street
Detention Center with 200 illegal aliens being detained for narcotics possession
and other criminal offenses.

After a score of Afghan refugees went on a hunger strike last March for 10 days,
the immigration authorities promised ''to do something'' according to Masoud. He
said the only result was the deportation of four of the refugees.

The Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights has challenged the
detention of the Afghans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 21, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

BACK TO IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By Charles E. Schumer; Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, is a
member of the House Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees and International Law.

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress is once again coming face to face with the enormous task of reforming
our immigration laws. Last year's near-miss - the last-minute defeat of the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill - makes it virtually certain that Congress will try again
seriously this year. To improve the chances this time around, it is crucial to
understand the reasons for last year's failure - above all, the tendency in
Congress to respond to the wishes of the vociferous few rather than the needs of
the whispering many.

The Simpson-Mazzoli bill, first put forward in 1980, would institute a
two-pronged immigration policy. To solve the problem of millions of foreigners
who live here illegally and unprotected, it would gradually allow many of them
to become full-fledged Americans. To alleviate the problem of the millions more
who enter illegally every year - leaping ahead of those waiting for visas and
taking jobs while millions of Americans can't find work - the bill outlined a
system of penalties, targeted at employers, to deter new illegal immigrants.
This year's bill will be based on the same two-pronged approach.

It is, for one thing, a balanced approach, with appeal for both the left and the
right. It is comprehensive and, in the opinion of most experts, should be
effective. Finally, it is aimed at the general interest - immigration problems
that affect most Americans. How can we improve our chances of passing it?

First, we must mobilize support from the public at large. Special interests
rarely get their way in Congress when the general public is aroused. But if
members of Congress feel that their mainstream constituents do not care, they
often allow interest groups to decide the fate of even important bills.

For some time now, the polls have shown widespread support for comprehensive
immigration reform. Yet advocates of such reform have failed to mobilize enough
backing to challenge special-interest lobbies. The issue generates relatively
few letters to Congress. The natural constituency for change - the working
American citizen - remains generally uninformed and unorganized. At the same
time, many special-interest groups -farm workers, produce growers, civil
libertarians and Hispanics, among others - have made it their goal to defeat
reform. In this situation, members of Congress see great cost and little benefit
in voting for it.

Second, these special interests must not be allowed to provide the information
that frames the debate.

It is generally agreed that illegal immigration depresses wages and working
conditions for many Americans. It is also agreed that employer sanctions would
probably be effective. The problem is that Hispanic and civil-rights lobbyists
fear that such sanctions would discourage employers from hiring any ''foreign
looking'' or Hispanic people. In the past, these lobbyists were able to flood
Capitol Hill with information about these purported discriminatory effects, and
as a result many in Congress lost sight of the sanctions' advantages. This time
around, the debate cannot be allowed to focus on theoretical discrimination to
the exclusion of the real needs of millions of Americans who cannot find work.

Third, we must realize that few legislative solutions are perfect but many are
preferable to the status quo. One of the problems with interest-group lobbyists
is that they inevitably draw attention to the flaws in a proposal. How can we be
sure that employer sanctions would be enforced or that illegal aliens won't
forge identity cards? What makes us certain that those already in the country
will take advantage of the amnesty offered them? These questions are valid, but
they miss the point: a law with even these flaws would be greatly preferable to
the present situation.

The sooner Congress recognizes this, the sooner it will free itself from the
distracting influence of the vociferous few.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 11, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Employer Sanctions Are Key to Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 674 words


To the Editor:

We read with great interest your Jan. 23 front-page article on a draft report of
the White House Council of Economic Advisers, which allegedly claims that
employer sanctions in any immigration-reform bill would impose a ''labor market
tax'' that would result in adverse effects on economic recovery.

This is not the Administration's position. The draft you refer to was an early
one, and some time ago all language discussing employer sanctions was deleted
from the council's report. When reached by telephone, Beryl W. Sprinkel, council
chairman, to whom the article attributed such fears, denied that the allegations
represented his position or that of the council, not to mention the
Administration. Indeed, the Department of Justice quickly assured us that the
views outlined did not represent the position of the Administration. We are
dismayed at the effect such an unsubstantiated charge might have on the progress
of immigration reform. We have worked on this issue for many years and are
painfully aware of the fragile coalition that must be forged if this nation is
ultimately to take effective control of its borders. The magnet drawing people
here from the Caribbean basin is jobs, and no one has yet suggested a device
other than employer sanctions that will reduce the flow.

The Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, after two years of
study, endorsed employer sanctions as the only effective enforcement tool. Three
Congresses have grappled with the issue, and each has concluded, the Senate by
three lopsided votes, that employer sanctions must be an integral part of
effective immigration reform.

We reject the claim that sanctions will be financially burdensome to employers.
Those with personnel departments will experience little practical difference in
their workload, and smaller employers need only note the existence of certain
enumerated identification documents, one of which is the same security card now
reviewed by all employers following existing law. The legislation does not put
the employer in the position of vouching for the authenticity of a document.
Rather, a ''good faith'' effort to retain evidence of the identification creates
an ''affirmative defense'' against any charge of having violated the
employer-sanctions provisions of the bill.

A discussion of the economic impact of sanctions should also address
counterbalancing factors. Many employers, for example, legally do not withhold
Federal and state income taxes, and illegal aliens do not now contribute as much
to the local economy as they might once fears of capture and deportation have
been lifted through legalization.

Immigration reform has already been adopted in this Congress by the Senate in S.
1200, and the House is continuing slow deliberation of its bill, H.R. 3810. The
enforcement feature of each version is employer sanctions, and we are confident
that when the House finally acts, the ease with which employers will be required
to review employee documents in order to survive Government security will be
clear to everyone concerned.

But if we fail to act before the end of this year, in our judgment, we will be
setting the stage for repressive legislation in the future. The American people
will not long stand for ever-increasing numbers entering by land or sea. Public
perception will lump legal immigrants and refugees with illegal entrants. If
terrorism ever surfaces on our streets, or if competition for jobs creates a
backlash against those with foreign accents and unusual names, we fear the
losers will be the principle of family reunification and our traditional
humanitarian response to those suffering persecution.

We have an opportunity to act now, in a time of relative calm. That is the
responsible course. The unsubstantiated claim of a so-called labor market tax
challenges the core of the legislation and does not further that effort.(Rep.)
DANIEL E. LUNGREN (Rep.) HAMILTON FISH JR. Washington, Jan. 27, 1986 The writers
are members of the House Judiciary Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 6, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

DEPORTED FAMILY GETS A NEW START

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, N.M., April 5


A Mexican couple whose son has a congenital heart defect was deported from the
United States today but returned to the country legally 15 minutes later.

''We'll make a fresh new start and see how it feels,'' said Guadalupe Tena. who,
with her husband, Raul, a 6-year- old daughter, Daniela, and a son, Victor, 4,
walked the 200-yard round trip between the Columbus port of entry and Las
Palomas, Mexico.

Victor, the only member of the family who is a United States citizen, suffers
from a congenital heart defect.

An immigration judge in El Paso, Tex., ruled Tuesday that Mr. and Mrs. Tena and
Daniela must be deported to their native Mexico. But he said they could return
to the United States from Mexico for six months so Victor could receive
treatment.

Refuse to Return Without Son

The Tenas had said they would not return to Mexico without Victor and the
family's doctor had told immigration officials the child could not receive
adequate medical care in northern Mexico.

''He was born four years ago and came to us when he was two days old with a
severe form of congenital heart disease,'' said Dr. Steven Yabek, a pediatric
cardiologist with the University of New Mexico School of Medicine in
Albuquerque. ''He has undergone two operative procedures and he will ultimately
require further surgery.''

The six-month parole can be extended depending on Victor's condition.

''We parole people on humanitarian grounds all the time,'' said Dan McDonald,
assistant director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in El Paso.
''It's not an uncommon thing at all.''

The Tenas entered the country illegally six years ago. Had the family lived in
the United States for seven uninterrupted years, they would have been eligible
to apply for permanent legal residency. The brief deportation today wipes out
the previous years of residency under Federal law.

''If we lost it, I feel it was worth it for Victor to get the good medical
attention he needs,'' Mrs. Tena said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 27, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CANADIAN OFFERED ENTRY TO U.S., BUT REFUSES

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 26


The United States Immigration Service said today that it would grant the
Canadian author Farley Mowat a special visit to the United States, but Mr. Mowat
refused the terms, saying he would ''not go under a shadow.''

''There is no way I am going to cross that border unless I can do it
unencumbered and I am treated in a gentlemanly fashion,'' the 63-year-old author
of 27 books said from his home in Port Hope, east of Toronto.

Mr. Mowat was barred from entering the United States Tuesday because of what
immigration officials called past or current associations with ''Communists,
anarchists or subversives.''

The author has denied connections with any such groups.

Shooting Threat a Joke

Mr. Mowat responded to reports that he had shot a .22-caliber rifle at American
military aircraft, saying he had jokingly threatened to do so several years ago
when B-52 bombers were flying over the Gulf of St. Lawrence.

''I got a little annoyed about this and stated publicly that if they didn't stop
intruding into my airspace I'd blast them out of the air with my trusty little
.22,'' he said.

''Of course I never shot at them,'' he said. ''This was a lighthearted jest, but
I'm beginning to believe that the American immigration people have a different
view of my sense of humor than I do.''

Benedict Ferro, the immigration agency's district director in Buffalo, said Mr.
Mowat's statement was among the ''things we'd like to sit down and talk with him
about.''

In Washington, the Immigration Service said in a prepared statement that it
would allow Mr. Mowat into the country ''in the interest of international
harmony.'' Mr. Ferro said Mr. Mowat would be granted a one-time trip, to
complete a promotional tour for his new book, ''Sea of Slaughter.''

Government 'Interest' Cited

''In the interest of international harmony we are permitting Mr. Mowat to come
to the United States to complete his business,'' the Immigration Commissioner,
Alan C. Nelson, said in the statement.

''This action should meet Mr. Mowat's need while still preserving the interests
of the United States Government in this matter.''

Mr. Mowat responded, ''In the interest of international harmony I am prepared to
go half way,'' which, he said, meant dropping his demand for a written apology
delivered on Air Force One but not his demand for ''free and open'' entry into
the country. ''I will not go under a shadow,'' he said.

Mr. Mowat is the winner of the 1961 Boys Club of America Junior Book Award and
the 1971 Mark Twain Award.

The immigration agency said it agreed to allow Mr. Mowat to complete the West
Coast tour scheduled by his United States publisher, Atlantic Monthly Press
Inc., at the request of the Canadian Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 21, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Peter Rodino Rides to the Rescue

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 619 words


A thunderbolt has just plunged down out of the cloud that darkens immigration
reform: Representative Peter Rodino says he'll champion it in the House. So far,
the reform bill proposed by Alan Simpson in the Senate has not even found a
sponsor in the House. For the Simpson-Nobody bill suddenly to become the
Simpson-Rodino bill may well be the crowning act of the New Jersey Democrat's
36-year House career. It's hard to imagine a more dramatic development in the
long struggle to persuade America to take control of its borders.

''It's a mistake to let this problem go unaddressed,'' Mr. Rodino told Stephen
Engelberg of The Times. ''What's going to happen if we don't act is that a
psychology will develop that says, 'Don't let anybody in.' '' Anyone who doubts
him should consult ''Latin Migration North,'' a new book by Michael Teitelbaum
published by the Council on Foreign Relations. There's an immigration clock
ticking, especially in Latin America, and the book demonstrates just how fast.

* Which were the two biggest cities in the world in 1980? A: Tokyo-Yokohama and
New York-Northern New Jersey.

* Which will be the two biggest cities in 1990? A: Mexico City and Sao Paulo,
both in Latin America. By 2000, when there are expected to be 17 million people
in the Tokyo area and 16 million in and around New York, Mexico City's
population is projected at 26 million and Sao Paulo's at 24 million.

Mr. Teitelbaum is a noted immigration demographer and not an alarmist, yet his
counsel is clear: Ask not for whom this immigration clock ticks. It ticks for
the United States.

The number of potential migrants has increased dramatically in 20 years and the
children of the Latin baby booms are starting to look for jobs. They go first to
cities. Defeated by recession, deep debt and austerity, increasingly they look
to the Golden Door. Like newcomers from other lands and other times, they are
brave, ambitious and energetic. Now as then, a stream of immigrants enriches the
nation.

But not a flood, and as Mr. Teitelbaum makes plain, there's a flood coming. In
the 1940's, Latin America sent 183,086 legal immigrants here. In the 1970's, it
sent ten times as many: 1,812,590. And that's just legal immigrants. Jet
flights, eager smugglers and a porous border make it easy for aliens to keep
sneaking in.

The question, hence, is not whether this country will control the borders. We
will. The question is how harshly. If we don't do so now with calm, humane
concern, we will later with xenophobic venom, of a kind discernible in last
year's Texas primary campaign.

Calm, humane concern: that characterizes the reform bill. It would deter hiring
illegal aliens and thus discourage them from coming in the first place. At the
same time, it would open a way for those already here to win legal status,
escaping exploitation and abuse.

As in past years, reform legislation is moving along swiftly in the Senate. The
Chamber of Commerce no longer opposes it. Hispanic opposition has softened. Any
day now, the Judiciary Committee will send it to the floor. As in past years,
the problem has been in the House. Two months have passed since Senator Simpson
introduced his 1985 bill in the Senate, yet until now, no one has even
introduced a parallel bill in the House.

There could be no more welcome or fitting sponsor than Peter Rodino. He's an
immigration authority who in the 1970's twice shepherded reform bills through
the House only to see them die in the Senate. And he is one of the lions of the
House, who ranks fourth in seniority among the 435 members. For him now to
champion immigration reform makes it likely that the United States will,
finally, heed the ticking and stop the clock.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 15, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. STAYS ITS BID TO FORCE EXILE BACK TO IRAN

BYLINE: By BEN A. FRANKLIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14


An Iranian alien seeking political asylum in the United States won an 11th-hour
reprieve today from being deported for the third time in three weeks.

The alien, Khoussrow Vaissi-Ghassabeh, who has lived in the United States for 14
years and married an American last June, had already been flown with his wife to
France and Turkey. Neither country would admit Mr. Vaissi, who says his
political activities in Washington against Iran's leader, the Ayatollah
Khomeini, would place him in danger of being executed if he returned to Iran.

With Mr. Vaissi scheduled to depart again tonight, this time for an undisclosed
third country on the way to Iran, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
stayed its deportation order for seven days, pending further hearings.

The stay was the latest development in a series of events that began Sept. 21,
when Mr. Vaissi, a 36-year-old restaurant worker here, went to the immigration
agency's office in Baltimore to inquire about the petition for political asylum
that he filed in 1981. He was immediately arrested and spent the next 10 days in
the Baltimore city jail.

A Trans-Atlantic Shuttle

On Oct. 1 Mr. Vaissi and his American-born wife, who accompanied him
voluntarily, were flown to Paris, then to Istanbul and back to Paris before
returning here last Wednesday.

After holding Mr. Vaissi in custody for two hours at Dulles International
Airport, immigration officials then flew the couple back to France. But he was
again denied entry, and Mr. Vaissi and his wife returned last Thursday to this
country, where he was again confined without bail in the Baltimore jail.

The seven-day stay granted by the immigration authorities followed by hours the
scheduling of an unusual emergency hearing at 4 P.M. in a Baltimore courthouse
that was locked for the Columbus Day holiday. Federal District Judge Herbert F.
Murray was to have heard arguments on the petition of Mr. Vaissi's attorneys,
David Carliner and Robert A. Remes, for a court order barring the deportation.

Immigration officials in Baltimore familiar with the case could not be reached
today because of the holiday.

According to his attorneys, Mr. Vaissi came to the United States from Iran in
1971 under a short-term student visa, but was never summoned by the immigration
agency after he overstayed his visa. They also said that in 1981 their client
was issued I.N.S. papers that permitted him to work indefinitely as a bartender
and a waiter.

Father Served in Shah's Police

Mr. Vaissi completed a course in restaurant management at Northern Virginia
Community College, according to court papers, and last June he married Sharon
Reid, 18. He has been living with her and her young son and his mother in
Rockville, Md., a Washington suburb.

Both Mr. Vaissi and his mother had applied for political asylum here on the
ground that, if deported to Iran, they would be persecuted for Mr. Vaissi's
anti-Khomeini activities and for the employment of his father, who, when last
heard from in Iran, was a police official under the Shah. The immigration agency
has not yet acted on his mother's application.

On Sept. 30, nine days after Mr. Vaissi's initial arrest, John F. Gossart Jr.,
an immigration service law judge, ruled that Mr. Vaissi had gained his current
position ''only by abusing the immigration laws,'' and said he ''should not be
permitted to gain by abusing the law in this manner.''

Judge Gossart also said that Mr. Vaissi's marriage to an American citizen ''did
not take place until 14 years after he was originally ordered to leave the
country.''

Joachim Henkel, director of the Washington office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, said in a letter last week supporting Mr. Vaissi's
petition for a stay of deportation that there was ''a growing worldwide problem
of refugees in orbit, many of them from Iran and Afghanistan, people who have
not yet found a country in which they will be allowed to stay permanently.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FEDERAL OFFICIALS ASSERT LAWYERS ARE AIDING IMMIGRATION FRAUDS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20


Federal officials say they are investigating ''a substantial number'' of lawyers
who specialize in immigration as part of a wide inquiry into fraudulent schemes
to obtain visas, work permits and other benefits for aliens.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have declined to give a
specific number of cases under investigation other than to say that there are
''several dozen.''

The service says immigration fraud is widespread. Its officials say it is
concentrating its inquiry on marriage fraud and fraudulent applications for
permission to work in the United States.

Immigration Lawyers Object

Immigration lawyers say the Government's assertions about the extent of fraud
are unproved and the investigations are meant to discourage lawyers from
representating aliens vigorously. They also strenuously object to the
Government's investigative tactics.

The Government has already brought charges or taken other legal actions against
some lawyers. Dale M. Schwartz of Atlanta, president-elect of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, was recently indicted by a Federal grand jury
on eight counts of mail fraud and false statements in a case involving a British
businessman who came to the United States to work for an American aerospace
company.

Release of 3,000 Cubans

Mr. Schwartz pleaded not guilty last week. In the last four years he has become
prominent by representing Cubans who resist deportation. As a result of his
efforts, more than 3,000 Cubans have been released from the Federal penitentiary
in Atlanta.

In Houston, two lawyers were recently sentenced to 18 months in Federal prison
after they pleaded guilty to three criminal counts arising from what was termed
a fraudulent scheme to get work visas for clients.

In Boston a Federal grand jury has subpoenaed the records of a private law firm
and a legal service clinic staffed by Harvard law students who help represent
aliens in immigration cases. A Federal district judge quashed the subpoena as a
violation of attorney-client confidentiality. The Justice Department has asked
the judge to reconsider, saying the files might show that the lawyers helped
their clients make false statements, commit perjury and evade the immigration
law.

The Government says the lawyers may have ''turned a blind eye'' to ''obvious
indications of their clients' fraud.'' Deborah E. Anker, an instructor at the
clinic and at Harvard Law School, denied the allegations and said that such
subpoenas would discourage lawyers from aggressively representing aliens, ''an
already vulnerable and underrepresented class.''

Sam Bernsen, a retired general counsel of the immigration service, said: ''It is
highly questionable whether these alleged violations are really criminal in
nature. The immigration law is monstrously complex. Much of it depends on the
alien's intent, whether he intends to come here temporarily or permanently.''

John F. Shaw, chief of investigations for the immigration service, said the
agency was focusing on two types of abuse: marriage fraud, which occurs when an
alien engages in a sham marriage to an American citizen to get an immigrant
visa, and false statements to help an alien enter the United States for a
specific job.

Permanent Visas to Workers

Before aliens can get permanent visas to work in the United States, the Labor
Department must determine whether Americans are available to do the job the
alien would take and whether employing the alien would adversely affect
Americans' wages and working conditions in similar jobs. If the answer to both
questions is no, the department issues a labor certification, facilitating the
alien's entry.

The Government contends that in many cases employers and their attorneys have
improperly written job descriptions to eliminate qualified American workers from
consideration.

Michael F. Treworgy, regional inspector general of the Labor Department in
Dallas, said that in his region, which covers 11 states, the authorities are
''investigating more than a dozen cases of suspected fraud involving lawyers,
aliens and employers.''

Agents of the Labor Department, the immigration service and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation are cooperating on similar inquiries in other parts of the
country, according to their officials.

'Gimmicking the System'

''We did not intend to single out immigration lawyers,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''We are
looking at fraudulent petitions for benefits under the immigration law. If that
leads to lawyers, so be it. We look on many members of the immigration bar as
people who are gimmicking the system.''

Immigration lawyers acknowledged that it was the Government's duty to
investigate wrongdoing, but several said they were furious about the tactics
Federal agents used to question the lawyers'

Allen E. Kaye of New York City, a former president of the immigration lawyers'
association, said that Federal agents had tried to gain the cooperation of
aliens and employers by telling them, in effect, ''We are investigating your
lawyer, not you.'' He said the agents also urged the clients not to tell their
lawyers they had been interviewed by Federal agents.

Maurice C. Inman, the current general counsel of the immigration service, said
the indictment of Mr. Schwartz was ''definitely not'' related to his
representing the Cubans.

But Mr. Schwartz said, ''These investigations of lawyers have no real purpose
other than to intimidate attorneys and their clients and thus to deprive aliens
and their sponsors of the effective assistance of counsel.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 29, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL PITS UNIONS AGAINST WORKERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 232 words


To the Editor:

The startling interpretation of immigration statutes by New York's Mayor Koch is
very disturbing. Immigration to the U.S. is a privilege and not a right - as so
many self-serving politicians would like to picture it.

Those who violate Federal immigration laws are, in principle, no better than
those who violate any law. They, in fact, make a mockery of those who patiently
await their legal turn to enter the country. Mr. Koch's description of those
illegals in New York City as ''self-supporting'' questions the need of many
services (other than police and fire in case of trouble), but to say of them
that ''the greatest problem they pose to the city is their tendency to underuse
services to which they are entitled, and to which their well-being and the
city's well-being depends'' is to carry politician's doublespeak to its most
disturbing extreme.

Robin Hood attitudes like that of the Mayor do not sit too well with the
minority (i.e., the taxpayers) who finance the Mayor's largess in this instance,
even if this memo was well timed to be publicized a few weeks before the
election. The extent to which immigration laws have been liberalized and the
look-the-other-way attitudes concomitant with it are sufficient for those who
have legal reasons to immigrate. To encourage more violations is irresponsible
and immoral as well.R. P. HELD New York, Oct. 18, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 19, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

DEMOTION OF 2 PROPOSED IN SOVIET SEAMAN'S RETURN

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18


The Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service today
recommended the demotion and temporary suspension without pay of two border
agents who forcibly returned a Ukrainian seaman to his ship last month.

The agents, who have not been identified, would each receive pay cuts of about
$4,000 a year under the action recommended by the official, Thomas Ferguson. His
plan would still have to be approved by the Immigration Service Commissioner,
Alan C. Nelson.

Mr. Ferguson, the No. 2 official at the agency, also recommended that one agent
be suspended for 90 days, the other for 45.

The recommendation came as newly released court documents showed that Government
officials feared violence if they tried to remove the seaman, Miroslav Medved,
for a third interview with American officials.

Basis of U.S. Concern

In a statement to a Federal judge earlier this month, a Justice Department
lawyer warned that a court order requiring another interview could result ''in
the death of people, or harm to people, because we would have to invade a
Russian ship,'' the documents showed. The judge decided not to halt the ship.

Mr. Medved's status became the focus of a nearly two-week stalemate between
American and Soviet officials after the border agents forced Mr. Medved back on
the ship Oct. 25, soon after he jumped into the Mississippi near New Orleans.
The agents said they interviewed Mr. Medved and determined that he was not
seeking political asylum.

Two days later Mr. Medved was removed from the ship and interviewed by State
Department personnel, who said they were convinced that the seaman wanted to
return to the Soviet Union. Despite Congressional protests and several lawsuits,
the freighter, with Mr. Medved, started back to the Soviet Union Nov. 9.

Officials had previously said that the agents could have been dismissed over
their decision to return Mr. Medved to his ship, in violation of Federal
guidelines on the handling of potential defectors from the Soviet Union.

A spokesman for the Immigration Service said that the punishments recommended
today were appropriate. ''It's a significant loss of income for both
gentlemen,'' said Duke Austin, the spokesman. He said the two agents now
received salaries of $21,800 to $28,300 a year. The service has refused to name
the agents ''to protect them,'' said Mr. Austin. ''They have a right to
privacy.''

According to Justice Department officials, one of the agents had worked for the
Border Patrol for 19 years and was just a few weeks shy of his pension. The
other had worked for the patrol for more than 10 years, the officials said.

Mr. Nelson, the Commissioner of the Immigration Service, has said that the
agents acted hastily and should not have sent Mr. Medved back to the ship until
immigration supervisors had reviewed his case. ''There obviously were mistakes
made,'' he said.

Procedure in U.S. Guidelines

According to Immigration Service officials, the two border agents had violated
guidelines that were designed to give special consideration to Soviet seamen who
jump ship. The guidelines require border agents to hold a Soviet seaman until
immigration supervisors, and in some cases the State Department, have reviewed
the case.

In the Medved incident, the officials said, border agents acted without
consulting their supervisors.

The guidelines were tightened several years ago after the attempted defection of
a man who jumped from a Soviet fishing boat onto a Coast Guard cutter in 1970.
The Coast Guard returned the man, Simas Kudirka, to Soviet custody over his
protests, prompting a national furor.

The border agents in the latest incident are now permitted 10 days to offer
arguments against the punishment. After they submit their arguments,
Commissioner Nelson is expected to make a final decision on how to discipline
the agents.

Before Mr. Medved's departure, several members of Congress and
Ukrainian-American groups sought court orders to stop the ship until Mr. Medved
could be interviewed a third time. Their requests were denied by several courts,
including the Supreme Court.

At a hearing here before Federal Judge Louis F. Oberdorfer, a Justice Department
lawyer, John O. Birch, warned that a court order requiring a new interview with
Mr. Medved could require American officials to ''invade a Russian ship,'' which
he said could result in death.

Mr. Birch would not comment today on his remarks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 29, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

There Is No Irish Quota, Just a Visa Limit

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words


To the Editor:

As an attorney specializing in United States immigration and nationality law, I
was startled by Tim Pat Coogan's ''Relax the Irish Quota'' (Op-Ed, Jan. 18).
What particularly startled me was not so much its blatant inaccuracy but that
you would permit its publication. The distorted premise of the article was that,
although President Reagan claims there is a 20,000 person a year ''Irish
quota,'' there is in reality only a 500 a year ''Irish quota,'' which House
Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. is trying to raise to 4,500.

First, under our present laws there is no such thing as an ''Irish quota'' at
all. The only ''quota'' is a visa-distribution system in which no nation,
including Ireland, can be issued more than 20,000 visas in any year. Further,
the Irish, as is true for all peoples around the world, can be issued immigrant
visas only if they fall into certain narrow categories (for example, very close
relatives of United States citizens or of lawful permanent residents, or people
whose skills are certified by the Department of Labor to be needed in the United
States); there is certainly no immigrant visa category for ''young boys and
girls working in bars, restaurants and building sites,'' whether the boys and
girls are from Ireland or Indonesia.

However, ''Sean and Mary, with their university qualifications,'' would probably
be issued visas under the category of professionals whose skills are needed.
Thus, if only 500 immigrant visas are issued each year to Irish nationals (the
article does not cite the source of this figure), it means that only 500 Irish
nationals prove eligible each year, not that there is a 500-visa ceiling.

It is conceivable that President Reagan would refer to a 20,000-a-year ''Irish
quota'' as a shorthand description of United States visa availability, but I do
not believe that Representative O'Neill is so ignorant of our laws that he would
talk of raising the ''Irish quota'' from 500 to 4,500. What is dismaying to me,
however, is that you, who have taken such an active interest in our immigration
policies, would print such a misleading, inaccurate and even inflammatory
article.
JOANNA MILLER BUKSZPAN New York, Jan. 20, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 12, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

POLICE DECLARE FUGITIVE ENTERED CANADA ILLICITLY

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 11


The police said today that they could prove that Alex J. Mengel, seized here
nine days ago as a fugitive in the slaying of a Westchester County, N.Y.,
officer, entered Canada illegally ''by falsely representing himself.''

Staff Sgt. John Klue of the Metropolitan Toronto Police investigations branch
said, ''We can prove he entered Canada illegally.'' An immigration hearing on
whether to deport Mr. Mengel is set for Tuesday.

Mr. Mengel, handcuffed and sitting behind a glass partition, was represented by
legal counsel for the first time today as he appeared briefly in Ontario
Provincial Court on charges of illegal weapons possession.

His lawyer, Michael Smith, requested a one-week delay so that he could discuss
the charges with his client, and Judge S. Gordon Tinker put off a bail hearing
on the gun charges until March 18.

Immigration Specialist

Mr. Smith, a member of the Toronto law firm of Roach & Smith, which specializes
in civil rights and immigration law, said outside of court that the local
criminal proceedings were ''clouded by immigration proceedings.''

Canadian authorities are seeking to have Mr. Mengel deported and have indicated
that they would drop the weapons charges in favor of an expulsion order.

''I have to see what immigration is saying, but I believe his status here is
legal,'' Mr. Smith said. He said he was ''hired through friends of Mr. Mengel's
family in Toronto.''

Mr. Anthony, the prosecutor, complained in court that he ''did not know what
immigration proceedings had to do with the bail hearing.'' In the corridor, he
said he ''didn't want the case to drag on forever.''

''I'd like to get him out of here,'' he said.

Caught After a Chase

Mr. Mengel was captured in Scarborough, an eastern suburb of Toronto, on March 2
after a car chase.

He was reported to be carrying two guns, the .38-caliber revolver of Westchester
County Officer Gary Stymiloski, who was shot after stopping Mr. Mengel and three
companions for a traffic violation on the Saw Mill River Parkway Feb. 24, and a
9-millimeter automatic purportedly used in the killing.

Mr. Mengel, a Guyanese-born legal alien whose last address was 2200 Grand Avenue
in the Bronx, was driving the car of Beverly Capone, 44, an International
Business Machines Corporation programmer from Mount Vernon who has been missing
since the day after the shooting.

Also seized in the car, Canadian police officials said, were women's clothing,
four knives and a full scalp of a woman in her late 30's or 40's. Samples of
Mrs. Capone's hair, taken from a comb and brush in her apartment, are being used
in forensic tests of the scalp.

Conclusive Results Not Expected

Douglas Lucas, head of the Ontario Center for Forensic Sciences, said the
examination could be completed this week, perhaps by Tuesday, but that hair
samples would not produce ''positive identification'' even if they compared
favorably.

Police officials are investigating a theory that Mr. Mengel entered Canada
disguised as a woman. The New York state police have said that a 13-year-old
girl near Syracuse said a man wearing a wig and lipstick tried to kidnap her on
Feb. 27. The man was driving a car that fit the description of the missing
vehicle.

The state police, meanwhile, have enlisted the services of 25 forest rangers in
a ''grid search'' of the woods, lakes and streams around a cabin in the
Catskills near Cairo where Mrs. Capone's I.B.M. card was found.

The cabin, which had been broken into, was several miles from a shed that Mr.
Mengel had used for hunting and fishing. He was returning with friends from a
weekend of target shooting, the police said, when he was stopped by Officer
Stymiloski.

Two of the three companions in the car, Raymond Jardine and Gloria Ramroop, are
being held ''in protective custody, as material witnesses,'' in the Westchester
County Jail in Valhalla, according to Warden Norwood Jackson.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Alex J. Mengel entering Toronto court

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 15, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEES HELD BY U.S. STOP HUNGER STRIKE AFTER 10 DAYS

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 239 words


Eighteen Afghan refugees ended a hunger strike yesterday after 10 days without
gaining either political asylum or their release from detention.

A lawyer with the Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights, Arthur
Helton, said, ''All 18 were near complete exhaustion and felt if they continued
any longer, they would be jeopardizing their health.''

The refugees, who began their strike March 5, were kept together in a
dormitorylike room at a Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center at 201 Varick Street, near West Houston Street, in lower Manhattan. At
one time, three refugees were fed intravenously and several were briefly
hospitalized.

According to the deputy district director of the immigration service, James
Jacey, the Afghans had arrived at Kennedy International Airport from countries
other than Afghanistan with false documents or no documents at all. Agency
regulations, he said, call for them to be detained until their requests for
asylum are reviewed by immigration judges.

Mr. Helton said the refugees had not felt safe in some of the countries through
which they had transited. After hearing American statements of support for the
rebels fighting the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, he said, they ''were quite
perplexed to find themselves incarcerated in the United States.''

The refugees have been placed on liquid diets for two days before they return to
regular food.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 17, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CHANGES ARE DUE FOR IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16


The Reagan Administration is preparing extensive changes in the rules and
procedures for granting asylum to aliens.

Officials of the Departments of Justice and State said the proposed changes were
designed to streamline the asylum process and to give the immigration
authorities more flexibility in handling applications. They said a secondary
purpose was to take the asylum issue out of the ''legislative arena,'' where it
has complicated efforts to pass a comprehensive immigration bill.

Immigration lawyers said the new rules could make it more difficult for some
aliens to gain asylum.

Under the Refugee Act of 1980, an alien may qualify for asylum if he has ''a
well-founded fear of persecution'' in his homeland ''on account of race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political
opinion.''

The immigration service and the State Department have said it is not enough for
the alien to show general conditions of violence in his homeland. He must show
it is likely that he would be singled out for persecution.

Poverty and Persecution

The Administration maintains that many of the illegal aliens from Latin America
who seek refuge in the United States are fleeing poverty, not persecution, and,
therefore, do not qualify for asylum.

Asylum has become a particularly sensitive issue since January when the
Administration moved to crack down on church groups offering sanctuary to people
from Central America who say they are fleeing persecution and violence. The
Justice Department contends that such groups are illegally smuggling or
harboring aliens.

Leaders of the sanctuary movement said that decisions on granting asylum had
become so entwined with politics and foreign policy that they are not objective
or fair.

Immigration officials rejected this criticism and said the new rules were not
part of an effort to curb the sanctuary movement.

Under the existing rules, the immigration service must seek a formal advisory
opinion from the State Department on every asylum application. Under the
proposed rules, to be issued for public comment this spring, the immigration
service would simply give the State Department ''notice'' of all applications.
Advisory opinions would no longer be required.

The 'Safe Haven' Factor

The new rules would specify factors justifying denial of asylum. One is the
availability of a ''safe haven'' in a country through which the alien passed on
the way to the United States.

The new rules say that immigration officials may deny a request for asylum if
there is evidence that the alien ceased his flight from persecution and found
''protection'' in a country that signed the 1967 United Nations Protocol on the
status of refugees.

The current rules say that the Attorney General must deny a request for asylum
if the alien ''has been firmly resettled in a foreign country'' before coming to
the United States. ''An alien is considered to be 'firmly resettled' if he was
offered resident status, citizenship or some other type of permanent
resettlement by another nation,'' the rules say.

The proposed rules would omit the word ''permanent,'' making clear that aliens
could be denied asylum in the United States even if they were not permanently
resettled elsewhere.

Standard of Proof Clarified

Under existing law, if an alien has a well-founded fear of persecution, he is
not automatically entitled to asylum here, but will not be forcibly returned to
the country he fled. The Attorney General, working through the immigration
service, has discretion to grant or deny asylum.

The new rules also clarify the standard of proof in asylum cases, rejecting some
of the more liberal interpretations by Federal courts.

The new rules adopt the same standard for asylum cases that the Supreme Court
laid down last June in a decision dealing with a related issue. The Court said
then that the Attorney General must not deport an alien to a country where there
was ''a clear probability'' that he would be persecuted.

The Justice Department has consistently taken the position that the two
standards, those for granting asylum and for withholding deportation, were the
same. But several Federal appeals courts have disagreed, saying the standard for
granting asylum was lower and therefore easier to satisfy.

60 Days for Comment

The Supreme Court has not decided the precise meaning of the standard used in
asylum cases, which requires the alien to show ''a well-founded fear of
persecution.'' But for the purpose of its analysis last June, the Court assumed
that the asylum standard was ''more generous'' and did not require the alien to
show ''a clear probability of persecution.'' Under the new rules, an alien would
have to make such a showing to obtain asylum.

The immigration service expects to send the new rules to Attorney General Edwin
Meese 3d next week for his approval. They are to be published in the Federal
Register, and people will have 60 days to file comments. After considering the
comments, the Justice Department will issue final rules with the force of law.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 26, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Deportation Issue SlowsMengelCase

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 25


A Canadian judge agreed today to delay court proceedings against Alex J. Mengel,
a fugitive who is accused of two killings in New York State, until immigration
officials decide whether to deport Mr. Mengel.

The 30-year-old suspect is sought in the shooting last month of Gary Stymiloski,
a Westchester County police officer, and the death of Beverly Capone of Mount
Vernon. In Canada, he faces weapon possession charges.

A hearing officer of the immigration commission was to rule Tuesday morning on
whether to deport Mr. Mengel.

A Westchester grand jury also was expected to begin hearing testimony Tuesday
against the fugitive in connection with the slaying of Officer Stymiloski.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 27, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

MENGEL DEPORTATION IN KILLING OF WOMAN AND OFFICER ORDERED

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, March 26


Canadian immigration authorities today ordered the deportation of Alex J.
Mengel, who is facing charges in Westchester and Greene Counties of murdering a
police officer and a woman whose car he was driving when he was captured in
Toronto.

Roger White, a spokesman for the Department of Employment and Immigration, said
that ''he could be gone tomorrow.'' In Westchester, Claire Palermo, a county
government spokesman, said that ''we expect him to be delivered to County Police
Headquarters in Hawthorne late in the day on Wednesday.''

The deportation order can be appealed to a Federal court in Canada, but Michael
Smith, Mr. Mengel's lawyer in Toronto, said he had no plans to do so. He said
the prisoner had not asked him to appeal the order and was ''resigned'' to
returning to the United States.

Mr. Mengel, a Bronx resident who emigrated to the United States from Guyana
several years ago, was found by an Immigration Department adjudicator, J. D.
Benning, to have entered Canada illegally ''by using false identification,'' Mr.
White said, ''and for having insufficient funds to maintain himself here.''

The 30-year-old suspect has been charged with first-degree murder in the
shooting Feb. 24 of Gary Stymiloski, a Westchester County police officer who
stopped Mr. Mengel for a traffic violation on the Saw Mill River Parkway in
Yonkers.

He is also accused of murdering Beverly Capone, 44, of Mount Vernon, whose body
was found near a cabin in the Catskills that Mr. Mengel is belived to have
broken into on his flight to Canada.

Mr. Mengel also is facing weapons possession charges in Toronto, with a court
appearance set for Wednesday, but a deputy crown attorney, Kenneth Anthony,
indicated earlier that Canada would suspend the charges if the prisoner was
ordered deported. Westchester authorities are pursuing the extradition of Mr.
Mengel, according to District Attorney Carl A. Vergari, ''just in case he is not
deported.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 4, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FILIPINO LINKED TO AQUINO HELD

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 3


A Philippine national who asserts he was a political murderer-for-hire in the
Philippines is in the custody of federal immigration authorities in California
awaiting possible deportation.

Jose Fronda Santos Jr. is being held without bail pending deportation in the
Oakland City Jail for a visa violation, according to an official of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Arthur Shanks, deputy director of the immigration agency's regional office in
San Francisco, said today that action on the deportation was awaiting the
outcome of an appeal by Mr. Santos of a federal immigration judge's denial of
his request for political asylum.

Mr. Shanks said that Mr. Santos had described himself as having been an
intelligence agent in the Philippines and that he further said he had been a
double agent, working for both President Ferdinand E. Marcos and the
assassinated leader of the opposition, Benigno S. Aquino Jr.

A year ago, Mr. Santos was reported to have told aides to a Congressional
committee in Washington that the chief of aviation security in the Philippines
had urged him to kill Mr. Aquino.

He was taken into custody by the Immigration and Naturalization Service about
six weeks ago after he jumped $35,000 bail in connection with the deportation
proceedings and fled, Mr. Shanks said.

Mr. Santos's whereabouts emerged today in connection with an otherwise unrelated
announcement by the Los Angeles Police Department of a burglary undercover
operation here. The police said Mr. Santos's hiding place in Los Angeles had
come to light in information obtained from a suspect apprehended in the burglary
operation.

According to Mr. Shanks, Mr. Santos first came to the immigration agency's
attention last August or September, when he unexpectedly convened a news
conference at the agency's office to publicize his bid for political asylum. It
was subsequently determined that Mr. Santos had overstayed a visitor's visa, and
deportation proceedings were begun, the official said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 24, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AUTHOR OF 'WOLF' BOOK BARRED

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 377 words


Farley Mowat, a prominent Canadian writer on wildlife and conservation, was
denied entry to the United States yesterday under a statute that denies entry to
Communists and anarchists.

The authorities said he was affiliated with leftist organizations and that he
could be barred on those grounds.

Mr. Mowat, who had not visited the United States in at least 20 years, was about
to board a plane in Toronto for Los Angeles when an official of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service informed him he would not be permitted to enter.

According to Harry Evans, the editor in chief of Atlantic Monthly Press, Mr.
Mowat's publisher, the author had been planning to visit the United States to
promote his latest book, ''Sea of Slaughter'' and to appear on television. ''Sea
of Slaughter,'' attacks the human destruction of wildlife in the northeastern
seaboard of Canada and the United States.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration Service in Washington, said Mr.
Mowat had been listed ''for many, many years'' in the service's ''lookout
book,'' a list of people not admissible to the United States for various
reasons. Mr. Austin said that Mr. Mowat was on the list under Paragraphs 27 and
28 of Section 212A of the immigration law, which bar anarchists and Communists.

Mr. Mowat's case was also covered by Immigration Law 235C, the spokesman said,
which defines the conditions under which he is barred as ''confidential.''

Mr. Mowat's most popular book, ''Never Cry Wolf,'' described his experiences
living in close proximity to wolves, animals he believes have been maligned and
needlessly slaughtered. ''Never Cry Wolf,'' published in 1963, was reissued in
1984 and was the basis of a recent movie.

Efforts to reach Mr. Mowat were unavailing. Mr. Mowat did not respond to several
telephone calls to his publisher's office in Canada, where he was visiting
yesterday.

Mr. Duke said that Mr. Mowat could apply for a hearing and examination to gain
entry to the United States, but that granting such a hearing would be the
responsibility of the Attorney General. Because the nature of the information
against Mr. Mowat is confidential, the spokesman said, the immigration examiner
in Toronto was not empowered to lift the ban on his own.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 25, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Rights Group Sues To Free Aliens

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 108 words


Thirty Afghan nationals and an Iranian man have spent up to a year in illegal
detention while seeking political asylum in this country, a human rights group
charged yesterday.

In a lawsuit against officials of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the group, the Lawyers Committee for International Human
Rights, said the Reagan Administration's policy of detaining nearly all
''undocumented aliens'' violates Federal immigration law, the Constitution and
the nation's treaty obligations toward refugees.

The suit seeks release of the 31 detainees who are being held in an Immigration
Service lockup in lower Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 28, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Headliners;
Barred From the States

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 149 words


Was a Canadian nature writer who was once honored by the Boys Club a threat to
American national security? The United States immigration officials who stopped
Farley Mowat, author of the popular ''Never Say Wolf,'' from boarding a Los
Angeles-bound plane in Toronto last week would say only that he was kept off
under a law barring Communists, anarchists and subversives. True, Mr. Mowat
said, he once joked about shooting down American B-52's with ''my trusty little
.22.'' And he has entertained Soviet writers. But, he said, ''I am not a Commie
dupe.'' Later, when the Immigration Service granted Mr. Mowat special clearance
to attend a conservation conference, the 63-year-old author refused the terms,
saying he would ''not go under a shadow.'' In any case, said Benedict Ferro, an
immigration official in Buffalo, there are ''things we'd like to sit down and
talk with him about.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Farley Mowat

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 21, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

RADIO MARTI GOES ON AIR AND CUBA RETALIATES BY ENDING PACT

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 20


A new United States broadcasting service aimed at Cuba went on the air shortly
before dawn today, and the Cuban Government responded sharply by suspending a
major immigration agreement with the United States and threatening other
measures.

In a strongly worded statement condemning the new service, known as Radio Marti,
Cuba said it was also suspending visits to Cuba by Cubans living in the United
States.

The immigration agreement, the first major agreement between the two countries
in seven years, provided for the return to Cuba of nearly 3,000 Cubans with
histories of crime or mental illness and the acceptance by the United States of
up to 20,000 Cuban immigrants a year.

Reagan Statement Broadcast

The United States also agreed to accept about 3,000 political prisoners who had
been released from jails some years ago. The Cuban Government's action today
appeared to bring these procedures to a halt.

Normal immigration from Cuba was stopped by the United States in reaction to the
illegal exodus of some 125,000 Cubans from the port of Mariel in 1980. In its
statement today Cuba said it ''reserved the right'' to reconsider its efforts to
prevent ''illegal departures'' from the country.

Some Cubans in Miami said this raised the possibility that large numbers of
Cubans might be once again permitted to make their way to Florida as they did in
1980. There was no elaboration from the Cuban Government.

In a brief statement read by a Radio Marti announcer, President Reagan said he
hoped the new service would ''help defuse the war hysteria on which much of
current Cuban Government policy is predicated.''

The Cuban Government said it regarded the United States' use of the name of Jose
Marti, the Cuban independence hero and poet, as a ''gross insult.''

The State Department spokesman, Bernard Kalb, said the United States regretted
the suspension of the immigration agreement and the ban on visits to Cuba,
adding, ''We hope the Cubans will reconsider this action.''

Radio Interference Feared

The Cuban Government also said it was planning to ''adopt additional measures
relating to the communications between the United States and Cuba.''

A State Department official said he was not able to interpret the meaning of
this statement, but some American broadcasters said they feared it raised the
possibility of interference with commercial radio broadcasting in the United
States.

At the White House, Larry Speakes, the spokesman, said the Cubans ''have the
capability'' of ''extensive interference with commercial broadcasting.''

Journalists in Havana said that the first broadcast of Radio Marti, which opened
with a report on the Cuban Government's reaction, was heard clearly and without
any apparent interference. In Miami, Radio Marti, broadcasting at 1180 kilohertz
on the AM dial, was received clearly at first, but within an hour or so was
being overcome by broadcasts from commercial stations in the area.

Radio Marti, which is to broadcast news, entertainment and sports in Spanish for
14 1/2 hours a day from studios in Washinton and a 50,000-watt transmitter in
the Florida Keys, was first proposed by the Reagan Administration four years
ago. It was established by Congress as a branch of the Voice of America in
October 1983 with an annual operating budget of $10 million.

Start Is Delayed

Opponents had argued that Radio Marti might become a strident vehicle for
anti-Castro propaganda that would worsen United States-Cuban relations. In the
final legislation creating Radio Marti, Congress said it was intended to ''serve
as a consistently reliable and authoritative source of accurate, objective and
comprehensive news.''

Responding to a question about the Cuban Government's reaction to Radio Marti's
inauguration, Mr. Speakes said, ''If that is their reaction to the lawful
presentation of accurate, balanced and objective news reports, then that speaks
volumes for the Cuban Government.''

There had been a series of delays in putting Radio Marti on the air, which
Reagan Administration officials said had been caused by difficulties in hiring
staff members and a cumbersome process of national security checks. Over the
weekend, some Congressional sources in Washington said that Radio Marti had been
ready to go on the air since January, but that it had been held up while senior
Administration officials considered the possible reactions from Cuba and how the
United States would respond.

From the start, Cuban officials had denounced Radio Marti as ''an aggressive
act'' against Cuba. Earlier this month some of them indicated that they had
begun to interpret the delays as evidence of improved relations between the
United States and Cuba.

For more than a year, Fidel Castro has been saying he would welcome better
relations with the United States. But the United States has said there can be no
change until Mr. Castro fundamentally alters his close relationship with the
Soviet Union and renounces his policy of involvement in Africa and Central
America.

'Surprising,' Havana Says

Despite statements from United States officials to the contrary, Cuban
Government officials interpreted the signing of the immigration last Dec. 14 as
an improvement in the relations of the two countries.

In its statement about Radio Marti, the Cuban Government described the start of
the broadcasts as ''surprising.''

The action, it said, ''takes place at a time in which constructive and diverse
steps had been taken to diminish the existing tensions between the two
countries.''

Shortly before Radio Marti began broadcasting at 5:30 A.M., a chartered flight
carrying visiting relatives and 11 former political prisoners arrived in Miami.
The former prisoners were the first of some 3,000 who were to be flown to the
United States as part of the immigration agreement, which included the return to
Cuba of 2,746 Cubans who United States authorities had said were unnacceptable
as immigrants because of histories of crimes and mental illness. So far 201 of
these Cubans, who have been held in United States prisons, have been returned to
Cuba.

As another part of the December agreement, the United States said that the
normal immigration of Cubans would be resumed and that up to 20,000 Cuban
immigrants a year would be accepted into the United States.

United States officials in Havana said in recent interviews that a little more
than 700 immigration applications had been approved and that 127 people had left
for the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Adres Martinez and his nephew Raimundo (UPI)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 22, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FEDERAL JUDGE WEIGHS PAROLE FOR CUBANS STILL HELD BY U.S.

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, May 21


Federal District Judge Marvin H. Shoob says he will consider paroling some of
the 1,900 Cuban prisoners still being held at the Federal penitentiary here
because of Cuba's suspension of its immigration agreement with the United
States.

Judge Shoob said Monday that he would start action on the parole petitions ''as
soon as we can determine whether the suspension of the accord is a short-termed
suspension or a permanent suspension.''

Havana announced Monday that it was suspending its Dec. 14 immigration agreement
with the United States to protest the start up of Radio Marti, a United States
broadcasting service aimed at Cuba and named for Jose Marti, the Cuban
independence hero and poet.

The agreement had virtually normalized emigration from Cuba, as well as
deportations from the United States. Under the Dec. 14 accord, Cuba agreed to
take back 2,746 Cubans who entered the United States in 1980 and who the
American authorities had said were unacceptable as immigrants because of crimes
and mental illness. So far, 201 Cuban prisoners have been deported. #20,000
Cuban Immigrants In return, the United States said the normal immigration of
Cubans would be resumed and that up to 20,000 Cuban immigrants a year would be
accepted.

The Atlanta penitentiary houses the largest number of Cubans on the deportation
list. Most of them were brought here to await deportation after completing jail
sentences elsewhere.

Before the Dec. 14 agreement made deportation possible, indefinite detention was
the Government's chief means of handling the Cubans. The Justice Department
eventually instituted a parole program to release those prisoners deemed
nonthreatening.

More than 1,200 prisoners contended in petitions to Judge Shoob that they were
wrongfully denied parole. The Federal court was in the process of working out a
procedure to handle the petitions when the Dec. 14 agreement was reached.

At that point, the prison door slammed shut, even for 147 Cubans who had already
been approved for parole. The only way out for the prisoners was deportation.

A Seven-Month 'Lockdown'

By that time, most of the prisoners were in ''lockdown'' conditions. All
movement was severely restricted after a demonstration last October turned into
a riot that caused injuries to both prisoners and guards.

Prisoners said in court testimony and recent interviews that the seven-month
lockdown has increased tensions and frustrations.

Walter Wells, a prison spokesman, said Havana's decision to suspend the
immigration agreement was ''a major disappointment'' for prisoners who had
volunteered for deportation to Cuba.

But attorneys for the Cubans said the decision was welcome news for their
clients and their families. Many are desperately fighting to stay in the United
States. So far, more than 370 prisoners have filed for stays of deportation, but
some of those who lost their court battles have already been returned to Cuba.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 13, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SINGLE MOTHERS ARE THE TARGETS IN MARRIAGE FRAUD

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words


THE financial plight and emotional needs of women who are raising children alone
have made them a popular target for the growing number of foreigners seeking a
partner for a ''green card'' marriage, according to leaders of single-parent
organizations and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Such arrangements permit foreigners to become permanent residents of the United
States through marriage to an American citizen. Marriages of this sort are
illegal if they are intended solely to bypass the immigration law. Normally this
means a marriage that would involve a fee and an agreement to dissolve the union
after about six months. That is the time it normally takes a foreigner to obtain
a green card from the Immigration Service and thus become a permanent resident.

Divorce does not eliminate permanent residency status, which can be withdrawn
only if Government officials prove that the marriage took place solely to
achieve residence in the United States.

In 1984, according to the service, 111,653 foreigners were granted residency
through marriage, a record. Such marriages have doubled in the last 10 years and
many are legitimate, but officials of the service say illegal marriages are
increasing.

''It's reaching epidemic proportions,'' according to John Caplinger, assistant
district director for investigations with the New Orleans office of the service.
A ring of professional marriage arrangers was recently uncovered in the New
Orleans area. It involved single-parent mothers who were both victims and
organizers - earning small sums of money by bringing in friends.

No exact figures are available on how many marriages of Americans to foreigners
are illicit, officials say, because such frauds, when they are prosecuted, are
not statistically separated from other fraud cases.

In such illegal arrangements, a foreigner may pay an American from $200 to
$5,000 to marry; final payment is usually not made until the green card is
issued.

Martin R. Greenfield, assistant district director for investigations at the
Newark office of the Department of Immigration and Naturalizaton, said fraud in
marriage was not easy to prove in an age when alternative living styles are
common.

Single-parent organizations, government officials and lawyers who have been
involved in these cases say their concern goes beyond possible criminal
prosecution of the mother if the marriage is found to be a sham by the
authorities.

Mr. Greenfield has found, for example, that it is common for a foreign partner
to refuse to pay the final installment on the marriage deal. ''That's the moment
she comes into our office in tears, asking us to go after the man,'' he said.

Charles Foster, past president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
who practices in Houston, said some women who have come to him seemed unaware
that they could lose part of an asset, such as a home, upon divorce as a result
of new laws on equitable distribution.

They often do not realize, he said, that with marriage they assume the statutory
obligations of a spouse, which could include responsibility for some of the
husband's debts. He said they were also often surprised that they might face
rigorous questioning by Department of Immigration officials, a regular part of
the immigration procedure that many Americans do not know about.

A long interview with both partners is required in every case before the green
card is issued. ''Suddenly it's not as simple as it seemed,'' he said.

He told of one woman who also found herself saddled with the foreign partner's
relatives, who moved into her house for weeks. The two had agreed to live under
the same roof because they thought that would preclude the possibility of being
charged with fraud. She was afraid to tell anyone because she knew that what she
was doing was illegal.

According to JoAnne C. Adlerstein, a former assistant United States attorney now
in private practice in Maplewood, N.J., there are a host of other problems. The
foreign partner sometimes disappears and that partner's signature is needed for
a divorce. Marriage can also make a single mother ineligible for support
payments or alimony from a former husband.

Officials say the illicit nature of these unions generally comes to their
attention when the women involved find themselves in deeper difficulties than
they had imagined could exist. Sometimes such unions are investigated as the
result of an anonymous tip or because the Immigration Department interview after
the marriage raises questions.

On May 10, Federal officials indicted Abdul Elagamy, an Egyptian who had been
living in this country since 1977, on fraud and conspriacy charges, accusing him
of arranging 15 green-card marriages in the New Orleans area either directly or
indirectly. They also indicted Gloria Smith, a single mother who worked as his
sales clerk in the doughnut shop he ran in Lafayette, La.

The foreigners involved in the marriages, from Kuwait, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq,
were all engineering students at the nearby University of Southwestern
Louisiana.

According to Mr. Caplinger, 7 of the 15 marriages were to single-parent mothers,
one of whom was said to have married and divorced two foreigners.

Sometimes a single-parent mother who agrees to a green-card marriage is offered
an extra fee to ''bring in a friend,'' according to Mr. Greenfield of the Newark
office. James A. Puleo, deputy district director at the Newark office, said that
about two-thirds of the marriages that seem suspect and are investigated involve
single-parent mothers. Last year processing officials in Newark marked some
2,500 cases for further investigation. Ten years ago, he said, a young single
woman with ''poor marriage prospects'' and low earning power was the prime
target.

Single-parent groups say the pressure to agree to these marriages is enormous.
''Welfare is so demeaning and inadequate, '' Ginnie Nute, director of public
affairs for Parents Without Partners, said. ''And these women want to do right
by their kids.'' Parents Without Partners is a national organization with
190,000 members.

The saddest part, members of these organizations say, is that women involved in
green-card marriages are often desperately lonely and believe they have
established a relationship. If the foreign partner leaves in a hurry, physically
abuses a woman or takes advantage of her in other ways, the shock is
particularly hard.

Doraldine Barrera, president of Parents for Child Support Enforcement of Texas,
who has been raising three children on her own for six years, said that three
green-card approaches were made to her in the last two years.

In one instance, she said, she was in a hotel restaurant in San Antonio when the
waiter, a handsome Central American, took a strong interest in her after he
found out she was a single mother.

''He would send flowers to my room,'' she said, ''and he kept saying how much he
liked me and wanted to keep in touch with me and get to know me better. It was
so flattering.''

She added ruefully, ''I guess they read about us in the papers and think it's an
easy way into the country.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 3, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. BEGINS PROCEEDINGS TO DEPORT AN EX-NICARAGUA REBEL LEADER

BYLINE: By KENDALL J. WILLS

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 566 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has started proceedings that could
lead to the deportation of a former Nicaraguan rebel leader who has been
critical of Reagan Administration policies, an immigration official said
yesterday.

The official, Perry A. Rivkind, who is the I.N.S. district director in Miami,
said he had reviewed the file of Edgar Chamorro, a former director of the
Nicaraguan Democratic Force, the major guerrilla group fighting the Sandinista
Government, after reading an article written by Mr. Chamorro last week that was
critical of United States activities in Nicaragua.

Mr. Rivkind denied that there was any connection between the exclusionary order
issued to Mr. Chamorro and the critical statements made by him.

The exclusionary order says that Mr. Chamorro is in this country illegally and
that he must appear before an immigration judge to state why he should not be
deported. Mr. Rivkind said the State Department had rejected Mr. Chamorro's
application for political asylum, made in February 1980.

Forced Out of Rebel Group

Mr. Chamorro was forced out of the rebel group in November 1984 after
accusations that he had disclosed information about secret manuals that were
reportedly financed by the Central Ingelligence Agency and that were distributed
among guerrillas.

''Once I stopped working for the F.D.N., they stopped my privileges,'' Mr.
Chamorro said in a telephone interview from his home in Key Biscayne, Fla.,
where he has lived with his family since 1979. ''Is this just a coincidence? My
legal status had never been questioned while I was working with them. I question
why this is happening right after I lobbied before Congress and wrote
articles.''

Mr. Chamorro said the C.I.A. had provided him with an American visa and a valid
Nicaraguan passport to aid his travels while he was working with the rebel group
against the Sandinista Government.

He said he made a dozen trips a year between the United States and cities in
Central America between February 1983, when he was recruited to join the rebels,
and November 1984. The visa, he said, was issued from the United States Embassy
in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, in December 1983 and was valid through 1987.

'Not in His Files'

''That was not in his files, I know nothing about it,'' Mr. Rivkind said of the
visa and the Nicaraguan passport. Mr. Rivkind said new information provided by
Mr. Chamorro's lawyer had been passed on to the State Department for review.

Mr. Chamorro may be able to bypass a deportation hearing if a sponsorship
application made by his sister, who is a United States citizen, is processed
within 60 days, Mr. Rivkind said.

An Op-Ed page article, in which Mr. Chamorro wrote that Reagan Administration
policies in Nicaragua had failed and that the C.I.A. had tried to blame the
rebels for mining Nicaraguan harbors, appeared in the June 24 issue of The New
York Times.

Mr. Rivkind said he opened Mr. Chamorro's files after reading the article and
discovered that the State Department had denied his application for asylum in
December. He then issued the exclusion order.

''Everyone wants to draw the conclusion that this was done for political
reasons,'' Mr. Rivkind said. ''That would be a violation of law.''

He said he had not previously acted on the case because of a backlog of
immigration cases and ''partly because of bureaucratic error.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 8, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CITY, CITING REBELLION AT JAIL, TO SEEK CURBS ON DEPORTEES

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 741 words


The City Department of Correction said yesterday that it would ask Federal
immigration authorities to screen more carefully the detained aliens it sends to
a Brooklyn jail where a dozen Cubans awaiting deportation attacked and injured
18 guards Saturday.

A department spokesman, Edward Hershey, said city officials would urge United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service representatives at a meeting today
to change the procedures that allowed the Cubans, all of whom have criminal
records, to be transferred to the Brooklyn Correctional Facility.

The minimum-security jail on the site of the former Brooklyn Navy Yard brig, at
136 Flushing Avenue in the Fort Greene section, houses about 200 prisoners in
dormitories.

In the violence Saturday, one prisoner punched a guard during the morning roll
call and others began throwing lockers and other furniture at unarmed officers
who were called to help, Mr. Hershey said.

Eight prisoners were injured in the disturbance, which Mr. Hershey described as
the first major outbreak of violence by inmates in the city correctional system
in nearly five years. None of the injuries required hospitalization.

''These are certainly not the kind of people we would put in the lightest
security facility in our system,'' Mr. Hershey said. ''These are people whom we
would put out on Rikers Island in single cells.''

The prisoners were among 23 Cuban deportees sent to the jail last week under an
agreement in which the Department of Correction accepts temporary custody of
''overflow'' detainees from the immigration agen cy's main detention center, on
VarickStreet in lower Manhattan, in return for a daily fee.

The agreement was made last year when the department, needing more jail space,
acquired the jail from the Immigration Service. The Federal agency had used the
jail as its main New York detention center after the Navy Yard closed in 1969.

The Federal agency retained the right to send up to 200 prisoners to the
Brooklyn jail from the Varick Street center.

That arrangement went into effect on July 1, and the next day an initial group
of 23 deportees, all Cubans, were transferred. No sooner had they arrived, Mr.
Hershey said, than the Correction Department officials began raising questions.

''We recognized some of those 23,'' he said. ''Some of them have served time in
our system.''

All of the Cuban deportees have been returned to Federal custody.

'Common Sense' Sought

The city's use of the jail had been opposed from the start by neighborhood
residents and community groups. In response to those concerns, the city in 1983
promised that only inmates with jail terms of 90 days or less, or with 90 days
or less remaining on their sentences, would be housed at the Brooklyn jail.

The meeting today had been scheduled before the fight Saturday and was intended
to discuss coordination of the program. But Mr. Hershey said that as a result of
the violence, correction officials would seek major changes.

''We're going to see if there is any codicil in the agreement that gives us
screening rights,'' Mr. Hershey said. ''If not, we are hoping that common sense
will prevail.''

''The contract doesn't say they can't send us Cubans,'' he added. ''But we do
have a right to return inmates who are disruptive or require special
treatment.''

A spokesman for the immigration agency in Washington, Duane Austin, said, ''I
know of no other plans at this time to send any more Cubans to the Brooklyn
facility. But we do have an agreement with the city of New York to use this
facility from time to time.''

Mr. Austin said all of the prisoners involved in the disturbance were so-called
''Marielitos,'' a term used to describe refugees who came to the United States
in 1980 after Cuban President Fidel Castro allowed disaffected Cubans to leave
the country from the port of Mariel.

Nearly 125,000 Cubans came to the United States in the boatlift, the vast
majority of them bona fide refugees. But the Cuban government also took
advantage of the mass evacuation to rid itself of several thousand criminals,
mental patients, homosexuals and others regarded by Havana as ''undesirables.''

An agreement last December called for Cuba to accept the repatriation of 3,000
Cuban criminals and mental patients being held in the United States. But Mr.
Castro suspended the accord on May 20, when the United States began broadcasts
to Cuba on a new station called Radio Marti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 9, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Topics;
Open Doors Contra Justice

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words


It sets a poor example for the conduct Americans expect of Nicaragua to have the
Immigration Service harass a Nicaraguan exile who dares to criticize ''contra''
rebel operation.

Though the service denies it, harassment appears to be the purpose of a move to
deny residence to Edgar Chamorro, a disenchanted former ''contra.'' Mr.
Chamorro's status came under review after immigration officials read an article
he wrote for The Times's Op-Ed page. It accused the C.I.A. of blaming the rebels
for mining Nicaragua's harbors. Mr. Chamorro was ordered to tell an immigration
judge why he should not be deported.

The service says its files failed to note that Mr. Chamorro possessed a visa
valid through 1987, information that has now been passed on to the State
Department ''for review.'' It also appears that Mr. Chamorro's sister is a
United States citizen, which normally means a deportation hearing can be waived.
But political exiles are not normally harassed for exercising the American right
of free speech. If that point escapes the Immigration Service, let the State
Department make it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Judge Favors Soviet Couple

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 18


Immigration officials violated the rights of the parents of a Russian teen-ager
by refusing to let them take their son back to the Soviet Union three years ago,
a Federal judge ruled today.

Senior Federal District Judge Thomas R. McMillen ruled that the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service denied due process of law to Anna and
Michael Polovchak by forbidding them to take their son, Walter, home without
giving the parents a hearing.

Walter Polovchak's lawyer said, however, that his client would not return to the
Soviet Union. ''Walter isn't going anywhere,'' said Julian E. Kulas, the lawyer.
Walter will be 18 years old on Oct. 3, when he can apply for U.S. citizenship.
Any order returning him to his parents' custody will be appealed, Mr. Kulas
said.

''He has no intention of going back,'' the lawyer said. ''We will exhaust every
legal remedy. He will go back over my dead body.''

In a eight-page ruling, Judge McMillen said, ''A minor child of tender years
does not have the right to control his own destiny.''

Under the ruling, the Polovchaks now may return to Chicago and bring their son
back to their home in the Soviet Ukraine.

The parents and their lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union also may
seek an injunction against the immigration service at a hearing set for July 29,
Judge McMillen ruled.

He said the immigration service violated the parents' right to due process on
Jan. 8, 1982, when Walter was 14, in issuing a ''departure control order''
barring anyone from taking Walter from the country. The immigration service did
not give the Polovchaks a hearing before issuing the order.

Harvey Grossman, a lawyer who represents the parents, said he was very pleased
with the decision.

He said he would try to telephone the Polovchaks on Friday. He said although
they have ''always maintained an interest in their son's welfare,'' he did not
know if they would return to the United States to retrieve Walter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 28, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IN SHORT: NONFICTION

BYLINE: By Robert Pear

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 276 words


CLAMOR AT THE GATES: The New American Immigration. Edited by Nathan Glazer. (ICS
Press, Suite 750, 785 Market St., San Francisco, Calif. 94103, Cloth, $25.95.
Paper, $10.95.) The 12 contributors to this volume examine immigration from
legal, sociological, economic and historical perspectives. Nathan Glazer, the
sociologist, says that American immigration policy is set ''in large part by
drift and evasion of difficult issues.'' Harris N. Miller, a former
Congressional aide, says that such drift reflects a national decision about
immigration, ''just as tolerance of certain tax loopholes is a policy on
taxation.'' The essays provide a useful counterbalance to some of the
impassioned debate over immigration on Capitol Hill. Hispanic groups such as the
League of United Latin American Citizens have been called unpatriotic for
lobbying against immigration legislation that seeks to curtail the influx of
illegal aliens. But Rodolfo O. de la Garza, a specialist in Mexican and Chicano
politics, writes that the league was founded to help immigrants learn English
and become ''Americanized'' as loyal citizens of the United States. Two of the
best essays are by Thomas Muller, a research associate at The Urban Institute,
who writes on the ''Economic Effects of Immigration,'' and Vernon M. Briggs Jr.,
who teaches economics at Cornell University and who argues that immigration
policy should be more responsive to labor-market trends. Peter H. Schuck, a law
professor at Yale University, neatly summarizes recent developments in
immigration law. ''Clamor at the Gates'' is a valuable reference, but would be
even more useful if it had an index.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 12, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
Hunger Strike Ends

BYLINE: Susan Heller Anderson and David W. Dunlap

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 260 words


One of them was taken to a hospital.

Another began coughing up blood. Fearing even worse, 15 Afghan refugees in
Federal custody ended their hunger strike on Tuesday evening after its second
week.

Arthur C. Helton of the Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights said
the Afghans were protesting being ''incarcerated until they either win or lose
asylum - a process that takes up to two years.''

While seeking political asylum from the Soviet-backed Afghan Government, the
aliens are held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in its detention
center at 201 Varick Street.

Mr. Helton said that many of the refugees had been detained after flying here
without passports or visas. ''A valid passport would be issued by the Afghan
regime,'' he said, ''something they would obviously decline to request.''

Mr. Helton said yesterday that all but one of the hunger strikers were under the
care of a Public Health Service doctor. One remains hospitalized.

About the strike, he said: ''I don't think it has accomplished or will
accomplish their ultimate goal, which is freedom. On the other hand, it has
drawn to the attention of the public the bizarre consequences of hard-nosed,
deterrent immigration policies.''

Scott Blackman, assistant district director for deportation in the immigration
service, said the Afghans' cases were in ''various stages'' of the hearing
process before Immigration Court and the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Mr. Blackman said that two Afghan refugees were released from the Varick Street
center in the last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 18, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. 'Ready' to Reopen Cuba Immigration Pact

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17


Secretary of State George P. Shultz said today that the Reagan Administration
was ''ready'' on ''short notice'' to reactivate an immigration agreement with
Cuba that was terminated by Fidel Castro.

Mr. Shultz called on the Cuban leader to reverse his decision, made in response
to the United States beginning Radio Marti broadcasts to Cuba last May. Mr.
Shultz said the United States was ready to receive 1,800 former Cuban political
prisoners.

''The United States is prepared to resume processing of refugees in Havana as
soon as Cuba decides to reactivate this migration agreement,'' Mr. Shultz told a
hearing of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and refugee policy.
''The United States remains ready to reactivate the U.S.-Cuban migration
agreement on short notice.''

In his testimony, Mr. Shultz also defended Administration policies toward
Southeast Asian and Central-American refugees. He said the Administration would
establish a ''limited program'' to unite close relatives in Cambodian refugee
camps in Thailand with Cambodians who have settled in the United States. Last
graph may be bitten.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 19, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Deporting Upheld Over Link to Nazis

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 177 words


An 81-year-old Latvian who ordered the destruction of a Russian Orthodox village
and the arrest of its residents - who were soon massacred - can be deported for
concealing his collaboration with the Nazis, a Federal appeals court ruled
yesterday.

The Latvian, Boleslavs Maikovskis, faces the death sentence if he is ever
returned to the Soviet Union, which annexed Latvia in 1940 and recaptured it
from the Germans later during World War II. But further appeals are possible in
the case.

The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan upheld findings by the
Board of Immigration Appeals that he should be deported. The board acted after
an immigration judge ruled that he should be allowed to stay in the United
States.

Mr. Maikovskis, a retired carpenter in Mineola, L.I., immigrated to the United
States in 1951 after telling American authorities that he worked during the war
as a railroad bookkeeper. In fact, officials now say, he was the Police Chief in
Rezekne, not far from a village where 200 to 300 people were killed in January
1942.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

100 HAITIANS ARE FEARED DROWNED BY SMUGGLERS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 21


As many as 100 Haitian refugees are presumed drowned after they were tossed from
a crowded, rickety fishing boat by crews paid to smuggle them into the United
States, Federal immigration officials said Friday.

The accounts of the incident came from seven refugees brought to Miami for
medical treatment after the 40-foot sailboat beached Aug. 14 on a barren
Bahamian island, said Perry Rivkind, district director for the Federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

''It's a continuing horror story,'' Mr. Rivkind said. ''The boat got heavy and
they pushed them over. These smugglers are the lowest kind of low.''

The refugees estimated that 80 to 100 people had disappeared from the vessel by
the time it was found by Bahamian patrols with 134 people aboard.

Letter Detailed Incident

The refugees, who are being held as illegal aliens at the immigration service's
Krome Avenue camp, wrote a letter detailing the incidents. The account has been
sent to immigration officials in Washington and to antismuggling unit of the
United States Border Patrol, Mr. Rivkind said. He said it would probably be up
to the Haitian Government to prosecute the smugglers.

The letter places part of the blame on a crew member who is also being held at
Krome, but the man has denied any involvement. The letter said in part, ''We
have close family members and friends whom he killed.''

The disappearances would occur, the Haitians said, after some of the refugees
would leave the packed underdeck and go to the upper deck. The Haitians said
they sat ''one between the other's legs'' in the underdeck.

Mr. Rivkind said the account was similar to other incidents Federal
investigators had learned about.

In one incident about four years ago, he said, 90 Haitians were drowned by a
smuggler. The smuggler was caught and imprisoned for smuggling, but he could not
be tried in the United States for murder because the deaths occurred in
international waters.

Empty Vessels Found at Sea

In other incidents, Mr. Rivkind said that the Coast Guard had reported finding
Haitian vessels at sea with large amounts of luggage aboard but no passengers.

Mr. Rivkind said that the survivors from the latest incident had told similar
accounts to the various translators.

The Miami Herald reported that one of the survivors, Saintil Presence, said he
lost four nephews and his godfather from the time the 40-foot vessel left Haiti
and when it beached at Flamingo Cay in the Bahamas in mid-August.

''The moment you step out of the lower deck, you don't return anymore,'' Mr.
Presence recalled.

He said that at one point in rough weather, when many of the passengers were
sick, three crewmen descended to the lower deck with sticks and picked out men
who were brought on deck. He said the men were not seen again. Mr. Presence said
that he and other men hid behind women to avoid being picked.

Man Denies Involvement

The crew member who was accused of taking part in the incidents denied the
accusations, but he told The Herald that some of the Haitians ''got crazy'' and
jumped overboard.

Another refugee, Theodel St. Jean, 17 years old, said he had been beaten on the
upper deck in an apparent attempt to push him overboard, but he said he had
escaped to the underdeck and another man was picked.

The refugees had been stranded for about 10 days when the Bahamian authorities
found the boat at Flamingo Cay.

The refugees said in their letter that they each had paid about $140 to be
smuggled into the United States. The seven people who signed the letter were
among 23 people airlifted by the Coast Guard to Miami for medical treament.

The seven people had been awaiting a Haitian ship that was to take the refugees
home. Many of the 111 people who were returned to Haiti aboard the ship told
similar stories to officials at the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince, The
Herald reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 9, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN CURBS ENTRY OF CUBAN OFFICALS

BYLINE: By GERALD M. BOYD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8


President Reagan today imposed restrictions on the entry into the United States
of Cuban officials.

The action, effective immediately, was seen as retaliation against Cuba's
suspension of an immigration agreement with the United States. Fidel Castro, the
Cuban leader, took that step in May in response to the Reagan Administration's
decision to begin operation of Radio Marti, an anti-Castro radio station.

A proclamation signed by Mr. Reagan bars the entry of Cuban Government and
Communist Party officials unless they are coming exclusively to conduct business
at the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, the Cuban Mission to the United
Nations in New York or the United Nations itself.

The proclamation said that the action was being taken ''in light of the current
state of relations'' between the two countries. It was issued less than a month
after Secretary of State George P. Shultz had called upon President Castro to
reactivate the immigration agreement.

Number Affected Called Small

A State Department official said that about 250 Cuban officials had entered the
United States on nonimmigration visas in the first six months of 1985. Those now
restricted would include officials coming into this country to make speeches or
for business contacts, he said.

''This really is intended to bring that facet of our policy in balance with the
overall relations,'' the official said, noting that the two countries have no
economic or commercial ties.

A spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section here said that the number of
officials who will be restricted by such a prohibition was small because such
travel to the United States was at a minimum. The spokesman did not know the
actual number.

''The only thing I know is that there has been very, very few people traveling
to the United States or allowed to travel to the United States,'' he said.

The spokesman asserted that the proclamation made official an already existing
Administration policy of denying visas to such Cuban Government representatives.


Singapore Leader Welcomed

The suspended immigration agreement between the United States and Cuba was the
first major pact between the two countries in seven years. It had called upon
Cuba to accept nearly 3,000 Cuban nationals detained in this country with
histories of crime or mental illness and the United States to accept up to
20,000 immigrants annually.

The proclamation today was released without elaboration at the White House
shortly after a ceremony welcoming Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore.

The statement said that to permit entry by Cuban officials, other than those
being allowed in under the prohibition, would be ''detrimental to the interests
of the United States.''

''In light of the current state of relations between the United States and Cuba,
including the May 20, 1985, statement that the Government of Cuba had decided
'to suspend all types of procedures regarding the execution' of the Dec. 14,
1984, immigration agreement between the United States and Cuba, thereby
disrupting normal migration procedures between the two countries,'' Mr. Reagan
said, ''I have determined that it is in the interest of the United States to
impose certain restrictions on entry into the United State of officers and or
employees of the Government of Cuba or the Communist Party of Cuba.''

Mr. Reagan greeted Prime Minister Lee with a strong statement on behalf of free
trade and open markets. Speaking at a Rose Garden ceremony in which Mr. Lee was
accorded full military honors, Mr. Reagan said:

''Protectionism is a threat to the living standards our people have worked so
hard to build. Once unleashed, it will set in motion a cycle of reaction and
paralysis, eventually destroying those it claims to protect.''

Mr. Reagan said that Singapore, whose gross domestic product has risen from $650
million to $16 billion since 1960, has enjoyed economic success because the
county has ''one of the most open trading markets on the planet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 29, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. INDICTS OREGON GURU AND SAYS HE TRIED TO FLEE COUNTRY

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Oct. 28


Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, charged in a sealed indictment with conspiring to
violate immigration laws, was taken off a private jet and arrested here early
this morning by Federal agents who said he was trying to flee the country.

The authorities in West Germany also arrested the guru's former chief aide and
three of her associates today on a variety of charges filed by Federal and state
officials in Oregon, officials in that state said. The four had left the country
late month after Mr. Rajneesh denounced them.

Mr. Rajneesh was ordered temporarily held without bail at the Mecklenberg County
Jail. His attorneys had vigorously protested to Federal Magistrate Barbara
DeLaney that holding the 53-year-old Indian guru in a common jail cell would
harm his health.

One of the attorneys, Prem Niren, said the guru suffered from diabetes, a bad
back and various allergies that, among other things, required all those who came
within his presence to bathe first in a scent-free soap.

The court said he would be closely monitored by the nurse and doctor at the jail
and removed to a hospital if they thought his health was threatened.

In a criminal indictment returned last week by a Federal grand jury in Oregon
and unsealed today, Mr. Rajneesh and seven other people were charged with
attempting to circumvent Federal immigration laws at his Oregon commune.
#35-Count Indictment The indictment includes 35 counts, all felonies. It accuses
them of conspiracy to make false statements to Federal immigration officers and
with harboring aliens illegally in the United States through use of what were
described as sham marriages involving Indian nationals.

Mr. Rajneesh was taken into custody after two chartered Learjets carrying him
and six of his followers from Oregon stopped at Charlotte-Douglas Airport about
2 A.M. The authorities said the seven had been on their way to Bermuda, and Mr.
Rajneesh was charged with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution.

The six others on the airplane were not named in the Federal indictment in
Oregon. They were charged today by Federal agents with concealing a person from
arrest, and aiding and abetting his flight to avoid prosecution.

Acting on information from Federal officials in Oregon, agents surrounded the
plane after it landed here and removed Mr. Rajneesh in handcuffs. The slight,
bearded guru appeared in court today wearing a floor-length purple and lavender
garment.

The Bhagwan, which means ''blessed one,'' emigrated in 1981 from Poona, India.
His commune, with about 1,500 residents in a remote valley of central Oregon, is
the spiritual headquarters of a sect that claims as many as 500,000 adherents,
mainly in the United States, Western Europe and Australia.

A Bitter Falling Out

Last month, Mr. Rajneesh had a bitter falling out with Ma Anand Sheela, 35 years
old, one of his closest followers. She had administered the Oregon commune,
known as Rajneeshpuram, over the last three years, a period in which Mr.
Rajneesh was observing a self-imposed vow of silence.

In a series of public allegations last month, Mr. Rajneesh accused Miss Sheela
of various crimes, including conspiracy to commit murder and conspiracy to burn
a county planning office in Oregon.

Miss Sheela was among the eight people named in the Federal indictment in Oregon
and accused of conspiring to violate Federal immigration laws. Charles H.
Turner, the United States Attorney for Oregon, said Miss Sheela was arrested
today in West Germany, where she fled last month, as was another woman named in
the indictment, Ma Yoga Vidya.

Mr. Turner said four other people named in the indictment surrendered today in
Portland. They are Ma Prem Mukta, Ma Prem Arup, Ma Prem Padma and Ma Prem
Naveena. The other person indicted, Ma Prem Karuna, is reportedly in Europe.

Commune Under Scrutiny

In recent weeks, there have been reports that the commune and its followers were
under growing scrutiny. Federal officials had called dozens of witnesses to
testify before a grand jury investigating immigration matters.

Moreover, the Oregon Attorney General, David Frohnmayer, has been studying the
guru's allegations against Miss Sheela, and today Mr. Frohnmayer announced that
she had been indicted on state charges of attempted murder, conspiracy to commit
murder and first-degree assault. Two other of her companions were also arrested
today in West Germany on the state charges. The two, Ma Shanti Bhadra and Ma
Anand Puja, were not named in the Federal indictment.

In Federal court here today, William Diehl, an attorney for Mr. Rajneesh and his
followers, disputed the charges that they had been involved in a flight to avoid
prosecution. He argued that when they were arrested the indictment naming Mr.
Rajneesh was still sealed and therefore secret.

But United Press International quoted Mr. Turner as saying that Mr. Rajneesh
became aware of the indictment sometime after it was handed up Wednesday. ''He
knew when the indictment was returned,'' Mr. Turner said. ''He knew the names.
As soon as that happened, the guy fled.''

Deborah J. Stewart, an assistant United States attorney here, asked today that
Mr. Rajneesh and his followers be detained without bail until at least Thursday,
pending a fuller hearing on the various Federal charges.

She asked that he remain in custody not only because there was substantial risk
that he would flee if released, but also because of what she described as a risk
to the public, since a firearm was found inside one of the bags confiscated at
the airport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of a police officer guarding Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh Learjets (The
Charlotte Observer); photo of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh (UPI)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 30, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Special Food and Throne Denied to Guru in Jail

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 101 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Oct. 29


Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh today was refused special food and a throne that the
53-year-old guru sought to make jail comfortable while awaiting a hearing on
charges of immigration fraud.

Mr. Rajneesh and six followers from his Oregon commune were arrested Monday at
the Charlotte-Douglas Airport when their two chartered jets stopped on a flight
to Bermuda, where Federal agents said the guru intended to flee to avoid
prosecution.

Sheriff C. W. Kidd said Mr. Rajneesh, who faces a hearing Thursday, spent Monday
night in a cell at the county jail with five other inmates who required nursing
attention.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 5, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

GURU RETURNING TO FACE CHARGES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Nov. 4


Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, spiritual leader of a sect claiming to have 500,000
members around the world, left for Oregon today to face charges that he violated
immigration laws.

Some members of the sect live at an Oregon commune that has more than 90
Rolls-Royces, a hotel and an armed security force. Mr. Rajneesh was indicted in
Oregon on charges that he and his followers covered up sham marriages between
some members born in the United States and foreigners who accompanied him here
in 1981. He also was charged with lying to immigration officials.

Mr. Rajneesh, 53 years old, was arrested Oct. 28 when he landed here in what the
Federal authorities said was an attempt to flee to Bermuda.

Mr. Rajneesh, wearing a gray robe and leg shackles, left here shortly after 5
P.M. aboarded a Government plane.

''Some of his followers admitted some ex-followers made death threats against
him,'' said Frank Herrin, an investigator for the United States Marshals
Service. ''We really had to watch the crowds to make sure someone wasn't going
to jump out and try to kill him.''

On Sunday, Mr. Rajneesh and his former top aide, Ma Anand Sheela, appeared on
the CBS News program ''60 Minutes.'' The interviews had been taped by Australian
television.

Miss Sheela, 35, contended Mr. Rajneesh was not the ''slightest bit interested
in enlightenment'' and was more interested in diamond-encrusted watches and his
fleet of Rolls-Royce automobiles. She said he was running a ''gigantic con.''

Mr. Rajneesh, who was shown a tape of the interview with Miss Sheela, answered:
''I sell contentment. I sell enlightenment. Sheela could not get it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 9, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET SEAMAN: HOW THE CASE DEVELOPED

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 411 words


Oct. 24 - A young Ukranian seaman, Miroslav Medved, jumps from the freighter
Marshal Konev into the Mississippi River at Belle Chase, La. He is taken into
custody by immigration officials, who question him through a Justice Department
interpreter. Mr. Medved indicates that he is not seeking asylum, according to
the officials; the interpreter, Irene Padoch, who spoke with him by telephone,
later disputes that assertion. Oct. 25 - Mr. Medved is returned to the Soviet
freighter at 2 A.M. As the launch approaches the ship he jumps again into the
water and swims ashore. Seven Soviet seaman come from the freighter, pick him up
and carry him onto the ship. Some witnesses report that there was a struggle.
Oct. 28 - Mr. Medved leaves the freighter and is interviewed aboard a Coast
Guard cutter by officials from the State Department, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and a doctor. He is given physical and psychiatric
examinations at a nearby Navy facility and spends the night on shore. Oct. 29 -
The sailor is given another psychiatric examination early in the morning and the
interview resumes. He repeatedly confirms his desire to return to the Soviet
Union, and is returned to the ship. Oct. 31 - President Reagan orders an
investigation into the situation after hearing the conflicting story of the
translator in the first interview, who says Mr. Medved told her that he wanted
asylum after he first jumped ship. Nov. 3 - Three Ukrainian-American groups
petition the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to keep
the ship from departing until Mr. Medved can again be interviewed by American
officials. The court rejects the request two days later.

Nov. 5 - At a Senate hearing William W. Woessner, a

State Department official, says Seaman Medved had injured his wrist after he was
first returned to the Soviet ship by the Border Patrol. The official says he
does not know if this indicated an attempt at suicide. Nov. 6 - Federal District
Judge Martin L. C. Feldman rejects another request, filed in behalf of three
women who say they are relatives of Mr. Medved, for a temporary restraining
order to prevent Mr. Medved from leaving the United States. Nov. 7 - The Senate
Agriculture Committee, headed by Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina,
subpoenas the sailor. The United States Customs Service says it will block the
departure of the Marshal Konev until Seaman Medved is allowed to appear before
the panel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 15, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Rumanian Defector Granted Asylum in U.S.

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 14


A Rumanian seaman who fled a freighter loading cargo in the Port of Houston was
granted asylum in the United States today, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service announced.

The seaman, Paul Firica, said he had been troubled by a lack of religious
toleration in Rumania and decided to defect to where ''freedom is respected.''

Immigration officials said the 44-year-old diesel mechanic walked off the
freighter Zalau shortly before the vessel left Houston late Tuesday. He made his
way to the Harris County jail and was subsequently sent to the immigration
agency for questioning.

Last week another Rumanian sailor, Stefan Vernea, 38, was granted asylum after
jumping from a merchant ship in Jacksonville, Fla.

Paul O'Neill, an immigration official, said such defections were not uncommon
but added that ''the situation is sensitive'' because of an incident in New
Orleans last week when a Soviet sailor twice jumped ship, only to be re=turned
to the ship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 22, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE CITY;
Rumanian Cleared To Return Home

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 155 words


A Rumanian acrobat was allowed to leave the United States yesterday after he
expressed ''no misgivings'' about returning home, Federal immigration officials
said.

The performer, Andi Georgescu, 24 years old, was picked up by agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service on Wednesday night as he and 11 other
members of his troupe waited to board a Rumanian airliner at Kennedy
International Airport.

Officials acted after Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona, reported
that a friend of Mr. Georgescu, Sherri Meyer, had contacted him to express fear
that Mr. Georgescu was being forced to return home against his will.

Mr. Georgescu was interviewed yesterday, with no Rumanian officials present,
said Charles Sava, district director of the immigration agency. The performer
had been in this country since December 1983 while his troupe was under contract
to the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 23, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

DEPORTED AFGHAN REFUGEE IS SAID TO RISK PRISON TERM

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 782 words


An Afghan refugee was deported this week to Pakistan, where he risks
imprisonment or being shuttled from country to country in search of asylum,
immigration lawyers said.

An immigration judge acknowledged the refugee's fear of persecution and
accordingly instructed that he not be returned to Afghanistan, the lawyers said,
but the judge rejected the man's request for political asylum for himself and
his family.

The man, a 28-year-old identified by his lawyers only as Ezatullah in order to
protect his family in Afghanistan, was the sixth Afghan seeking asylum to be
deported this year, the lawyers said.

'Sent Into Orbit'

They said that two of the six had been tried in Pakistan for illegal entry and
were in prison there, and that the three others had been ''sent into orbit'' -
shuttled around by airlines until a country agreed to take them in.

Afghans who arrive here for resettlement have been denied asylum, even if they
qualify as refugees, on the ground they could have obtained asylum elsewhere,
such as in Pakistan, according to legal sources.

Ezatullah, who told lawyers he had been tortured and imprisoned by Afghan
authorities for 40 days for deserting three times from the Soviet-backed army,
had been detained by immigration authorities since arriving with his wife and
baby last May.

Thursday his wife and their 11-month-old baby, who had been released on parole
when he was detained, were served surrender notices, but they failed to appear
at Kennedy International Airport.

No Comment From Authorities

Lawyers said Ezatullah left Thursday on the regular Lufthansa flight to Karachi,
Pakistan.

Requests for comment from Scott Blackman, assistant deputy director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York, received no response
yesterday.

''What we fear is that Ezatullah will be jailed for illegal entry to Pakistan or
sent into orbit or worse - that is, be sent back to Afghanistan by some
low-level official,'' said a director of the Lawyers Committee for International
Human Rights, Arthur Helton.

The Lawyers Committee, which has led the legal battle here on behalf of Afghan
refugees, asked the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and Pakistani
human rights lawyers to monitor Ezatullah's case after his deportation.

'Perversity of Policy'

''This case demonstrates the contradictions and perversity of U.S. policy on
Afghan refugees,'' Mr. Helton said. ''While Washington calls Afghans freedom
fighters and claims to support the Afghan cause,'' the Immigration and
Naturalization Service detains and deports Afghan refugees without passports
issued by a Government with which the U.S. does not have diplomatic relations.''

There are 32 Afghan refugees, including two women, at the immigration service's
detention facility on Varick Street in Manhattan, charged with having
questionable travel documents or none at all, authorities said.

They have all requested political asylum and are to remain in detention until a
decision is reached on their cases. The process can take up to two years.

The Afghan prisoners conducted a 10-day hunger strike last March and a 15-day
hunger strike in September to protest their being held.

Suit Filed in April

Last April, the Lawyers Committee and the Civil Rights Clinic of the New York
University School of Law filed a suit challenging the detention of 30 Afghans
and an Iranian on the ground that their incarceration ''violates domestic and
international law.''

The suit, which is still pending in Federal District Court in Manhattan, has
frozen the deportation of those refugees, but that freeze does not apply to
recent arrivals.

In a hearing on Oct. 11, an immigration judge, Annette Elstein, denied the
application for asylum by Ezatullah, his wife and baby but agreed not to deport
them to Afghanistan.

The claim for asylum was complicated by conflicting reports regarding the wife's
brother, a well-known rebel leader who was said to have defected to the Soviet
side of the Afghan conflict this year, according to Ezatullah's lawyer, Robert
Carr.

In an effort to win parole for Ezatullah and a stay in the family's deportation,
Mr. Carr gave immigration authorities a medical report testifying that the wife
was in ''an extremely depressed condition'' and had suffered four major
depressive episodes while in Pakistan. The appeal was rejected.

Thursday Mr. Carr also urged that Ezatullah's and his family's case be included
in the lawsuit filed last April, but this was refused.

''We had nothing left to do,'' Mr. Carr said. ''If he is jailed in Pakistan and
I.N.S. tries to deport the wife and child, then we will be able to take
additional steps.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 28, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Pair Fined for Breaking Immigration Laws

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 27


A brother and sister convicted of conspiring to violate immigration laws by
importing fellow Indonesians and selling them as servants have been fined,
placed on probation and ordered to pay the aliens' way back home by Federal
District Judge Richard Gadbois.

The brother, Nasim Mussry, 57 years old, was placed on five years' probation
Tuesday and ordered to pay a $20,000 fine plus $6,500 in back pay to nine
Indonesians. He was also ordered to pay the $718 one-way airfare of any of the
Indonesians who wanted to return home.

Mr. Mussry's sister, Elsa Singman, 54, was fined $1,000 and ordered to pay the
airfare for two Indonesians. She was placed on probation for three years. Mr.
Mussry and Mrs. Singman were convicted Oct. 21 of conspiring to violate
immigration laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 3, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Official Wants to Cut Funds to Los Angeles

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 144 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 2


The Government's top immigration official in the West says he will explore
whether Los Angeles can be cut off from receiving Federal funds after the City
Council declared it a sanctuary for Central American political refugees.

Harold Ezell, Western regional director of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said this weekend, ''I feel so strongly that the Los
Angeles City Council made a very poor decision that I have asked Washington, my
headquarters, to find out legally what we can do to change this decision.''

The resolution approved Wednesday declaring Los Angeles a sanctuary for the
refugees forbids city employees from considering resident status in dispensing
government services. It also reaffirms a police department policy against
arresting or detaining undocumented immigrants merely for being in Los Angeles
illegally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 22, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IN SHORT: NONFICTION

BYLINE: By Tony Schmitz

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 314 words


MY DISCOVERY OF AMERICA. By Farley Mowat. (Atlantic Monthly, $12.95.) When the
Canadian writer Farley Mowat was barred from entering the United States last
April, he wondered, naturally enough, why. Mr. Mowat's frequently hilarious book
chronicles his quest to get a sensible answer from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The author of ''Never Cry Wolf'' learned he and
thousands of others are blacklisted under the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952, a law
intended to keep Communists and anarchists out of the country. Given no further
explanation from immigration officials, Mr. Mowat examined his conscience. Was
the problem his book ''The Siberians''? On reflection he admitted he had
''treated the Soviets as human beings essentially like us.'' Or was it ''Sea of
Slaughter,'' which condemned the butchery of wildlife along the United States
and Canadian coasts? Neither, an anonymous immigration official finally
explained. Mr. Mowat, he said, was a serious espionage risk and a threat to our
armed forces. According to a 1968 newspaper clipping in a Government file, the
author - no stranger to bluster - had said he took potshots with a .22 at United
States bombers flying over Newfoundland. The way Mr. Mowat tells it now, the
planes were visible only with binoculars - decidedly out of range for a rifle
commonly used to hunt squirrels. Since he believed the aircraft carried hydrogen
bombs, Mr. Mowat says he had even less reason to shoot. After he was refused
entry and the Government was lambasted in newspapers across the nation,
officials rigged an escape hatch for themselves: they would ''parole'' Mr.
Mowat. He would not be ''admitted,'' but he could ''move about'' in this
country. Mr. Mowat decided against a journey through the looking glass. Instead,
he got his revenge by writing a witty account of an embarrassing law and its
thick-headed enforcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 27, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Refugees Deserve Better;
CAPTIVE AFGHANISTAN, 6 YEARS LATER

BYLINE: By Gary L. Ackerman; Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of New York, is a member
of the House Committee on Foreign Affairsand its Subcommittee on Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As the Soviet Union's occupation of Afghanistan heads into its seventh year, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is putting our country in the
embarrassing and inconsistent position of jailing some of the Afghan refugees
whose cause we support, both politically and financially.

The President, Congress, the State Department and human rights monitoring groups
regularly denounce Soviet atrocities against the Afghan people. Yet barely a
murmur can be heard about the 33 Afghans being held by the Immigration Service
in a New York City detention facility. These bona fide refugees are the victims
of the Soviet aggression in Afghanistan. Many of them have actively participated
in the resistance movement; many were imprisoned and tortured by their
Government. All have asked for political asylum in our country -and face
deportation if it is denied.

The Immigration Service keeps these people in jail for one reason only - that
they failed to ask their puppet Government for permission to escape their
beleaguered homeland and therefore did not have proper documentation when they
entered the United States.

This is a stubborn and inflexible policy that goes far beyond what is required
by law. Indeed, the Immigration Service has failed to exercise the discretion
accorded it by immigration law - the discretion, in exceptional circumstances,
to permit the entrance of individuals who may otherwise find themselves unable
to secure protection within American borders.

The Service's absolute refusal, in this case, to exercise any such discretion
recalls the case of the St. Louis, a ship that the United States turned away
from its shores in 1939, refusing haven to hundreds of desperate refugees from
Hitler's Germany. Most of the refugees eventually perished, to our eternal
disgrace - and yet we seem to have learned nothing from the experience.

What happens to the Afghans we deport? Often they are returned to Pakistan,
where they risk jail, trial or deportation to Afghanistan. In some cases, we
have deported Afghans with no clear destination - with the result that they are
bounced from country to country. The Immigration Service closes its eyes to the
fact that they may be forced back into Afghanistan, where they could be
imprisoned, tortured or executed.

There is no doubt in anyone's mind about what is happening in Afghanistan. Our
Government, several human rights groups (including Helsinki Watch, the United
Nations Commission on Human Rights and Amnesty International), many individual
journalists and impartial observers have thoroughly documented the extensive
human rights violations there - atrocities that have been called genocide. To
read these reports is a nerve-shattering experience. To read them with the
knowledge that our own Government is jailing people who escaped this tyranny is
to feel a deep sense of shame.

Several of the 33 Afghans incarcerated in New York have been languishing in an
American detention facility for as long as 17 months. Is this the America we
want them to know? Is this the America that is synonymous with hope and freedom?

It is time to put an end to their ordeal. The President himself should use his
authority to release these Afghans from detention. That would be the way to do
justice to the Afghan cause and to the democratic values we espouse.

Several of the detained Afghans have written to me, asking how they could be
jailed in the ''land of Lady Liberty.'' One detainee who is 16 years old has
gone so far as to renounce his application for asylum in America.

His words should be shocking to all Americans: ''From this jail and the mental
torture I have been put through, it has become clear to me that what I had heard
about the United States and what we had hoped for and what they promised us and
announced to the world is not anything other than a dream. . . . The United
States will never extend a helping hand to me. I feel that I will never be free
nor be granted political asylum. Since there is no hope for me here, I give up
my case and request that I be sent back to our beloved and invaded country under
the Russian torture.'' His words are as sobering as the Soviet invasion itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 9, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Guru's Ex-Aide Denies Sham Marriage Charges

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 24, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Feb. 8


Ma Anand Sheela, former personal secretary of the Indian guru Bhagwan Shree
Rajneesh, pleaded not guilty Friday to charges that she broke immigration laws
by arranging sham marriages for the guru's followers.

No trial date was set by Federal District Judge Edward Leavy, who was asked by a
Government prosecutor to order the 36-year-old woman held without bail. Judge
Leavy set next Friday for a bail hearing and told her she would remain in
custody.

Both Mr. Rajneesh and Miss Sheela were charged with conspiring to arrange more
than 400 sham marriages among the guru's followers so they could remain in the
United States after their visas expired. The guru pleaded guilty to the charge,
paid a $400,000 fine and was ordered out of the country. He is now living in
Nepal.

Miss Sheela, who left the commune last September, and two other guru disciples
returned Thursday to the United States after being held in a West German prison
since Oct. 28.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 28, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE REGION;
Iranian's Wedding Takes Place in Jail

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Feb. 27


An Iranian who was seized by immigration agents just as his wedding was to get
under way finally was married today - in jail, where he must await another
deportation hearing.

Ali Reza Ghalamsiah, the Iranian, and Shahim Piriam were married in the Passaic
County Jail two days after a ceremony at the Franklin Lakes municipal building
was interrupted by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service who
seized Mr. Ghalamsiah, a 38-year-old banquet manager who lives in Hackensack.

Deportation proceedings began in November 1979 against him. Immigration
officials said he overstayed a student visa issued in 1971. His requests for
political asylum were denied and the denials were upheld by a Federal appeals
court.

Miss Piriam, who lives in Franklin Lakes, has been granted refugee status from
Iran because she is Jewish. Mr. Ghalamsiah's lawyer said his client, a Moslem,
wanted to leave the United States, possibly for Israel.

Mayor William Vichiconti of Franklin Lakes performed the seven-minute wedding in
the Passaic County Jail chapel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 2, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AWAITING RULING ON ASYLUM, HAITIANS PONDER GOING HOME

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 41, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 793 words


Haitians seeking political asylum but who have been detained, some since the
early 1980's, by United States immigration officials are beginning to consider
returning to their homeland after the departure from Haiti last month of
President Jean-Claude Duvalier.

''I don't know what I would face going home, but it would be better than staying
in prison,'' said a young man known as Lele, who is one of 21 Haitian refugees
being held at the Immigration and Naturalization Center at 201 Varick Street in
lower Manhattan. They are awaiting an immigration court's decision on their
asylum request.

''The women in the detention center aren't too hopeful'' that they would be safe
in Haiti, said a refugee called Ti Matante. ''We know there are lots of
Duvalierists and Tontons Macoute still around.'' The Tontons Macoute were Mr.
Duvalier's feared security police.

''But those of us who have been in jail over a year and have children back home
are more willing to go back,'' she added.

Fear of Reprisals

Both Haitians asked to be identified only by their nicknames, out of fear of
reprisals if they are deported to Haiti. They were interviewed through a
Creole-speaking interpreter, Large numbers of middle-class Haitians fled
political persecution in the early 1960's, largely settling around New York and
Miami. In the 1970's, the ''boat people,'' mostly peasants, fled rural poverty
and repression. Then, in the early 80's, Washington imposed detention and
interdiction policies, stopping the flow.

Arthur Helton, a director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, said only 1
percent of the Haitians involved in political asylum cases decided in 1985 were
successful, compared with 73 percent of the Libyans, 59 percent of the Romanians
and 57 percent of the Czechoslovaks.

Even those refugees who are willing to go back face difficulties because of the
recent turmoil in the Caribbean country.

Airport Was Closed

''Two Haitians were prepared to return voluntarily this week but were unable to
go because the airport in Haiti was closed,'' Scott Blackman, assistant deputy
director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York, said Friday.

He said he had received several other requests but said there had been no new
orders to force the Haitians to go home in the wake of the departure to France
of Mr. Duvalier, whose family held power for almost 30 years.

At the Krome detention center in Miami, where more than 100 Haitians are held,
the refugees are confused, said the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, executive director
of the Haitian Refugee Center. He said some people wanted to go home but were
demanding protection.

''We would advise American authorities to wait and see and not deport Haitians
because the army, the administration, even most of the new junta and
institutions were linked to the old regime for 28 years,'' says Jean-Jacques
Honorat, a former cabinet minister expelled from Haiti in 1981 who is an
international development consultant in New York.

Recounting her story, Ti Matante, 30 years old, said the Tontons Macoute had
beat her husband, a field worker, forcing him to flee in 1981, leaving her and
their two small children. After the abduction of her father, sister and uncle,
she tried to join her husband, who is working in an electronics factory in New
Jersey, but she was jailed on her arrival in Miami on Dec. 24, 1984, and later
transferred to New York.

'I Want to Stay'

''I want to stay here with my husband but if they send me to Haiti, maybe I'll
get taken care of,'' Ti Matante said.

She complained of sharp pains in her chest and side and a growth under her right
rib cage. Immigration officials said she had been examined by the staff doctor
and taken to a hospital on several occasions. In a report, a doctor at St.
Vincent's Hospital who examined the growth said it was ''not medically necessary
to have it removed.''

Lele, 26, used to work with his uncle, a hougan - a voodoo priest - who sold
mahogany statues. The Haitian authorities thought his uncle was smuggling people
out of the country but when they came to arrest him, he was out of the country.
Fearing arrest, Lele fled by boat to Miami.

Detained on his arrival in September 1981, Lele was released on parole but his
request for asylum was denied and immigration authorities found him working in a
Boston restaurant in 1983.

For a while in January, the Haitians believed they would be set free. That was
when 32 Afghan refugees, also being held for entering the country illegally,
were released on parole, after the intervention of several Congressmen.

''The decision to release the Afghans was made with respect to the Afghans alone
and does not mean any change in detention policy,'' Mr. Blackman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 19, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE ALIEN BILL DRAWS CRITICISM

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18


The chief House sponsor of a comprehensive immigration bill joined Hispanic
groups today in criticizing a move by the Senate to admit up to 350,000 aliens
to the United States to harvest perishable fruit and vegetables.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chief sponsor of the House bill, said he was
''deeply disappointed'' by the Senate's action Tuesday to establish a new
program under which foreign agricultural workers could come to this country for
up to nine months a year. The Senate adopted the proposal, 51 to 44, as an
amendment to a bill designed to curtail illegal immigration, ''This action by
the Senate,'' Mr. Rodino said, ''certainly complicates the issue and makes the
job of the House Judiciary Committee and the full House of Representatives more
difficult.''

Mr. Rodino, a New Jersey Democrat, who is also the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, said he was ''adamantly opposed to any massive importation of foreign
agricultural labor'' because it could ''seriously jeopardize the job
opportunities as well as the wages and working conditions of American farm
workers.'' #33-Month Period Is Voted As the Senate continued work today on its
version of the immigration bill, it voted to end the foreign worker program
after 33 months unless a law was passed to extend it. The program would not be
extended unless both houses of Congress took action to continue it.

Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, offered the proposal that would limit
the duration of the foreign worker program. Before approving the limit by a
voice vote, the Senate voted 55 to 39 to reject a motion to kill the Simon
proposal. That motion was made by Senator Pete Wilson, Republican of California,
the chief proponent of the alien worker plan.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said that ''no matter how
you skin it, with acceptance of the Wilson amdendment, we are accepting special
interest legislation.'' The amendment, he said, was designed to benefit the
growers of fruit and vegetables.

Mr. Wilson said the growers were motivated by concern for their own survival.
Without a ready supply of labor, he said, their crops would rot before being
picked.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, chief sponsor of the Senate immigration bill, said the
growers' primary motivation for seeking a guaranteed supply of foreign workers
was not simply survival but ''greed.''

Bill Offers Legal Status

Mr. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican, who is assistant majority leader of the
Senate, has been struggling for six days to get his bill passed. The Senate
passed similar bills by margins of more than 4 to 1 in 1982 and 1983, but the
job has been more difficult for Mr. Simpson this year, in part because
agricultural interests have been better organized.

The bill would prohibit employers from hiring illegal aliens and would offer
legal status to illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1,
1980, and had lived here continuously since then. Mr. Rodino's bill would offer
legal status to illegal aliens who entered this country before January 1982.

Richard P. Fajardo, director of the Washington office of the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said that, with approval of the Wilson
amendment, ''The growers have been able to turn an immigration reform bill into
an agricultural worker bill.'' In effect, he said, the Senate was expressing the
view that Mexicans were ''welcome as our field hands, but not as our next-door
neighbors in the community.''

Even without the Wilson amendment, farmers would, under Mr. Simpson's bill, have
three years more than other employers to end the hiring of illegal aliens. For
other employers, the prohibition on hiring illegal aliens would take effect as
soon as the bill became law.

Earlier Versions Died

Without controversy, the Senate approved another amendment to reimburse states
for the cost of providing public assistance to aliens who obtained legal status
under the bill. This amendment, also offered by Senator Wilson, would provide
$300 million in each of the first two years, then $600 million in each of the
next four years, for a total of $3 billion over six years. The money would be
distributed to states under a formula that took into account the number of
aliens who gained legal status.

Mr. Simpson said this was ''within the limit'' set by the Office of Management
and Budget. The budget office expressed concern about the cost of such
assistance in September 1984, when House and Senate negotiators were trying to
reconcile differences in bills passed by the two chambers. The bills died in a
conference committee, with no agreement on how much the Federal Government
should provide in health and welfare benefits for aliens who obtained legal
status.

One of the last items delaying a final Senate vote on the Simpson bill today was
an extraneous proposal to remove Social Security from the Federal budget. The
author of the proposal, Senator John Heinz, Republican of Pennsylvania,
acknowledged that it was not related to the immigration bill, but he said it was
necessary to protect the Social Security system from budget cuts.

Under current law, Social Security tax receipts and benefit payments would be
removed from the budget in October 1992. Mr. Heinz said he wanted to see this
change take effect some time in the next three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 8, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

PROSECUTION RESTS IN ALIEN-SMUGGLING TRIAL

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., March 7


The prosecution rested its case today in the 18th week of the trial of 11
religious leaders accused of smuggling Central American refugees into the United
States.

Donald M. Reno, the prosecutor, ended his case with testimony from an agent of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, John Nixon, who posed as a
sympathizer to the church-based movement that provides sanctuary to aliens
entering this country illegally.

Trip to Church Requested

He was among 17 witnesses, mainly Salvadorans and Guatemalans, who testified
that church leaders from Arizona, Texas and Mexico ran an underground railroad
for refugees.

The jury is to report back Thursday after legal arguments on various defense
motions that are to be filed Tuesday.

A defense lawyer, Ellen Yaroshefsky, asked visiting Federal District Judge Earl
H. Carroll of Phoenix to allow a field trip for jurors. She wants them to see
Roman Catholic churches in Nogales, Ariz., and Nogales, Mexico, and the
Southside Presbyterian Church in Tucson.

A grand jury indictment says churches were used as way stations in an
underground railroad that smuggled Guatemalans and Salvadorans to various United
States cities, including Philadelphia and Los Angeles.''

'They Proved Our Case'

Defendants said that Mr. Reno's case proved the indictment was unjustified.

''They proved our case,'' said the Rev. John M. Fife, 45 years old, a Tucson
Presbyterian accused by Mr. Reno of leading an alien smuggling ring.

Mr. Reno said he was pleased with his case.

''If the question was would I do it all over again, unequivocally, yes I
would,'' the prosecutor said.

Mr. Nixon said Philip Willis-Conger, 27, of the Tucson Ecumenical Council's
refugee task force, had discussed possible transportation of undocumented
Central Americans to Visalia, Calif.

Stephen Cooper, a lawyer for a Quaker activist from Tucson, James Corbett, 51,
said the defense will present extensive motions next week to challenge the
Government's case against the Roman Catholic and Protestant clergy and lay
workers.

The defense is expected to ask that the testimony of some of the major witnesses
be striken, especially the testimony of a Government informer, Jesus Cruz, who
was paid to infiltrate churches while secretly wired with a tape recorder.

Under cross-examination Thursday by a defense lawyer, Robert Hirsh, Mr. Nixon
admitted that he failed to secretly tape an hour or so of a meeting Aug. 27,
1984, because he forgot to bring an extra tape along.

As a result, there is no evidence other than the testimony of Mr. Nixon and Mr.
Cruz that Mr. Corbett and a Tucson Presbyterian clergyman, John Fife, 45,
discussed letting Central Americans use bicycles or walk along the dry bed of
the Santa Cruz River to enter the United States from Mexico.

Mr. Cooper said Mr. Nixon inaccurately described conversations in a taped
portion of the meeting. The tape was transcribed but the jury has not seen a
copy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 10, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Refugees Refuse Food In Protest of Detention

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 35, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 178 words


A score of Afghan refugees were in the fifth day of a hunger strike yesterday,
protesting their detention in Manhattan by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The 20 refusing to eat were among 31 Afghans being held in the Varick Street
Detention Center because they lack proper documents.

The 31, some of whom have been detained since last May, have applied for
political asylum, citing the Soviet occupation of their country. The Lawyers
Committee for International Human Rights has filed requests for their release,
contending that their detention is illegal under the Refugee Act of 1980.

The hunger strike ''is a desperate act of people who see no hope,'' said Arthur
C. Helton, a director of the committee.

''We're trying to persuade them to stop the hunger strike,'' said Habib Mayar,
chairman of the Afghan Community in America, a refugee relief organization based
in Jamaica, Queens. He said two of the hunger strikers took food today but 20
continued their strike.

A supervisor at the detention center would not comment yesterday.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Cubans at Detention Center Riot in Bid to Return Home

BYLINE: AP, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: FLORENCE, Ariz., Aug. 22


Cuban inmates rioted at a Federal immigration detention center early today,
setting fires, breaking windows and furniture, and shouting that they wanted to
be returned home, the authorities said.

By afternoon, the units were quiet, and the inmates took down barricades they
had built with the debris in front of their dormitory-style cell units, said
Manuel R. Cornejo, the officer in charge of the facility.

''The Cubans have totally torn up the facility,'' said Ruth Anne Myers, district
director of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service. ''They are
shouting 'liberty,' they want to be free, they want to return to Cuba.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 1, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AFGHANS CONTEST DETENTION IN U.S.

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 928 words


Three Afghans in a detention center in New York say they cannot understand why
they are being held when the United States Government claims to support the
struggle of rebels against the Soviet-backed Government in Afghanistan.

The three men, in their mid-20's, have proved a ''well-founded fear of
persecution,'' according to immigration lawyers, and are therefore eligible for
refugee status, but have been denied asylum because they tried to enter the
United States without proper travel documents.

Appearing ill at ease, the three Afghans said in separate interviews that they
faced execution if they returned to their homeland. They asked that their full
names not be disclosed to protect relatives in Afghanistan. #33 Afghans at
Center The interviews took place in the presence of a guard in a visiting area
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's detention center at 201 Varick
Street in Manhattan.

''Every day there is news here about Afghanistan, how the American Government
wants to help Afghanistan and supports the freedom fighters, and so we never
expected to be put in jail here,'' said Abdul, a 26-year-old former bank
employee who has become an informal spokesman for Afghan refugees at the center
because of his fluent English.

There are 33 Afghans, including two women - mostly in their teens or mid-20's -
being held in the detention center, along with about 220 other illegal aliens.

The assistant deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
New York, Scott Blackman, declined to comment on the detention of the Afghan
refugees, on the ground that the issue is in litigation.

Suit Filed

The Lawyers Committee for International Human Rights has filed a suit on behalf
of the refugees, who one committee director, Arthur Helton, said were being
victimized by the Government's efforts to deter more refugees.

''It stems from the general I.N.S. policy of deterrence,'' Mr. Helton said.
''They don't want to encourage plane people as well as boat people.''

Another of the three Afghans interviewed, Ezatullah, a 27-year-old former
engineering student, was deported Nov. 21 to Pakistan after his request for
asylum for himself, his wife and their 11-month-old daughter was denied.

When he arrived in Karachi, however, Pakistani authorities told him they would
have to send him to Afghanistan or try him for illegal entry into Pakistan.
Trial would eventually result in his return to Afghanistan, because Pakistan
does not accept Afghans who have applied for asylum elsewhere.

Lawyer's Letter

He said he was saved - and returned to the United States - by a letter from his
Manhattan immigration lawyer, Robert Carr, stating that the Federal immigration
administrative law judge who had denied his request for asylum had also ruled
that he should not be deported to Afghanistan.

Ezatullah explained he was afraid to return to Afghanistan because he had been
forcibly inducted into the army and had escaped three times. He said his father
had been killed, two brothers were missing and his home destroyed. He said the
mujahedeen, the forces opposing the Soviet-backed regime helped him and his
wife, who was pregnant at the time, to escape to Pakistan.

''But I learned there were Afghan agents in Pakistan and many Afghan refugees
had been killed or their relatives at home had been punished, and so I decided
to come with my wife and baby to America, which says it supports Afghan
refugees.'' Ezatullah said. He was detained by immigration authorities when he
arrived here seven months ago.

Practiced Medicine

The third Afghan, Sayed, a 27-year-old psychiatrist, also refused to join the
Soviet-backed Afghan army. He said he fled to a village in central Afghanistan
that is controlled by freedom fighters and practiced medicine there from
February 1982 until December 1984, when the village was destroyed by the army.

Last February, Sayed decided to flee to Pakistan with his wife and 4-year-old
daughter, but the mother and child were killed by a mine. On his way to Canada,
he was detained at Kennedy International Airport.

''I have two brothers in the United States and know the American Government
supports the freedom fighters and has sent them medicine,'' Sayed said.

Sayed was detained by immigration authorities four months ago. On Nov. 4, a
judge ruled he would not be deported to Afghanistan but denied him asylum.

Detained for 14 Months

Abdul, 26, his wife and sister-in-law have been held in the detention center for
14 months. Afghan authorities arrested him and five other bank employees in June
1984 and accused them of distributing anti-Government literature.

After only three days, the army camp, which was located on the outskirts of
Kabul, was attacked by members of the mujahedeen, who helped him and 34 other
known opponents of the regime to escape, he said. He fled to the border area,
where he was joined by his wife and her sister, and they went together to
Pakistan and then the United States.

He said that their request for political asylum had been denied because they had
tried to enter the United States without proper documents.

His only hope now, he said, is the suit that was filed last April by the Lawyers
Committee for International Human Rights and the Civil Rights Clinic of the New
York University School of Law, challenging the detention of 30 Afghans and one
Iranian. The suit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, holds that the
refugees' confinement violates domestic and international law and demands their
immediate release.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of three Afghans during an interview at immigration and
Naturalization Services' detention center (NYT/John Sotomayor)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 9, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

6 ALIENS FLEE DETENTION CENTER

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 197 words


Six inmates escaped and two others were injured and captured yesterday at a
Federal immigration center in Lower Manhattan, the police said.

The six inmates apparently went through a fourth floor window and slid to the
ground on a rope made of of bed sheets at the Federal Immigration Detention
Center at 201 Varick Street, the police said.

The two injured inmates, the police said, were found on the ground below the
window at 6:15 P.M. The police said they fell as they attempted to escape. The
two were taken to St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center for treatment.

The prisoners who escaped were not identified by authorities last night.

One of the injured, 25-year-old Jose Costellio, a resident of the Dominican
Republic, suffered a broken wrist and broken facial bone. He had been arrested
at Kennedy International Airport in April 1984 for immigration law violations.

The other injured inmate, Kahlid Chautary, 34, of Pakistan, was listed in
serious condition with a fractured pelvis, two broken ankles, and four broken
vertebrae. He had been arrested at Kennedy Airport on Nov. 4, 1985, also for
immigration violations. All eight of the inmates involved are men.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 16, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

METHOD GIVING EMIGRES SECRET ACCESS IS ASSAILED

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15


The Defense Department has granted security clearances to thousands of emigres
from the Soviet Union and other Communist countries, although the Government has
no reliable way of checking their backgrounds, according to a Senate
investigation.

Staff investigators for the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
said the difficulty of verifying the backgrounds of foreign-born residents was
potentially a serious weakness in the way the Pentagon protects Government
secrets.

According to Defense Department data obtained by the subcommittee, the Pentagon
has given security clearances to 1,400 immigrant aliens and recently naturalized
citizens from the Soviet Union, who work for military contractors.

The Pentagon has approved top secret clearances for 121 Soviet emigres, and
secret clearances for another 1,349, numbers compiled by the Senate panel show.


What Is Top Secret

Top secret is defined as information that could cause ''exceptionally grave
damage to national security'' if released. Secret is used for information that,
if released, would cause ''serious damage to national security.''

Secret and top secret clearances are so widespread in the Government that some
critics have said their meaning is diluted. The most sensitive information is
protected under ''special access programs'' that require an even higher security
clearance.

However, Fred Asselin, a subcommittee investigator for Senator Sam Nunn,
Democrat of Georgia, said that a ''top secret'' clearance still entitles a
worker to view some very sensitive information.

10,000 Employees on List

Another Pentagon document obtained by the subcommittee listed 10,675 military
contractor employees from Communist countries that had either been cleared for
secret and top secret information or had applications ''in process.'' In
addition to Soviet emigres, the largest number were 3,291 from China, 1,056 from
Cuba, and 1,225 from Poland.

A subcommittee aide said the problems of checking foreign-born residents for
potential security risks was not confined to Communist countries.

For example, the subcommittee investigators conducted a detailed study of how
the Government performed its security check of P. Takis Veliotis, the Greek-born
former executive with the General Dynamics Corporration who is now a fugitive
from Federal kickback charges. The study found that Mr. Veliotis was given
clearances to run sensitive nuclear submarine projects for the Navy and the
Department of Energy, although there were large gaps and inconsistencies in the
investigation of his background.

''American investigators simply have great problems trying to conduct background
inquiries in a foreign nation,'' said Senator Nunn, who requested the Senate
study in connection with hearings to begin Tuesday. ''It is especially
difficult, and sometimes impossible, when the clearance is for someone from a
Communist nation or a closed society,'' he added.

No Pentagon Comment

Steve Katsan, a spokesman for the Pentagon's Defense Investigative Service,
which is responsible for internal security, said officials there would have no
comment prior to the Senate hearings.

The Defense Department accounts for about 90 percent of the 4.2 million
Government employees, uniformed personnel and contractors who have secret or top
secret clearances.

As a case study in the difficulties, the subcommittee staff prepared a 43-page
report on the background check on Mr. Veliotis, who ran the shipyard that
produced nuclear submarines for General Dynamics' Electric Boat Company
division.

Mr. Veliotis now resides in Greece, where he has provided internal company
documents to reporters and Congressional investigators looking into General
Dynamics's dealings with the Government.

According to corporate documents obtained by the subcommittee, Mr. Veliotis'
foreign-born status initially worried the Navy enough that on two occasions it
lowered the security clearance level for the shipyards he ran.

Eventually, however, Mr. Veliotis was given secret and top secret clearances by
the Pentagon, and a ''Q'' access code from the Energy Department, the equivalent
of a top secret clearance.

The subcommittee said the clearances appeared to have been based primarily on a
clearance he had obtained in Canada, which in turn was based only on a check of
Canadian files and fingerprint records.

Conflicting Information Reported

In addition, the report said, statements filed by Mr. Veliotis gave conflicting
information about his education, about a 1954 conviction in Greece on a charge
of money order fraud, and about a business trip he made to Russia. These
inconsistencies apparently were not pursued.

According to the investigation, Mr. Veliotis kept his clearances even after he
came under investigation in connection with an alleged scheme to accept $2.7
million in kickbacks from a Navy subcontractor. Mr. Veliotis was indicted on the
charge in 1983.

The staff report said that Mr. Veliotis ''represents a potential breach of
national security of serious dimensions.'' Mr. Veliotis, whose politics are
rigidly anti-Soviet, has denied suggestions that he might be a security risk to
the United States.

''The personnel security procedures'' used in the case ''were inadequate and
demonstrate the need for more thorough inquiry into the backgrounds of immigrant
aliens and recently naturalized citizens,'' the staff concluded.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 12, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AFGHAN IN HOSPITAL AS 18 REFUGEES PRESS THEIR HUNGER STRIKE

BYLINE: By DENA KLEIMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 20, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 299 words


A 24-year-old Afghan refugee was hospitalized yesterday as he and 17 other
Afghans detained in New York City by the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service were in the seventh day of a hunger strike.

The refugees, all of whom have requested political asylum, are protesting their
detention by the agency pending review of their applications for asylum. Some
have been held since last May.

Thus far eight of the hunger strikers have been treated at hospitals and
returned to the agency's processing center at 201 Varick Street, in lower
Manhattan. One, Roashan Ahsamullah, remained at Bayley Seton Hospital on Staten
Island, where a spokesman, Judith Okun, said he was in satisfactory condition.

The hunger strike began last Tuesday, and according to James Jacey, deputy
district director of the immigration agency, those involved are being housed in
a large, dormitory-like room at the Varick Street center. About 200 immigrants
from other countries are in other rooms, he said.

Medical Treatment Available

Reporters were not allowed to speak with the hunger strikers yesterday, but
Arthur C. Helton, a lawyer with the Lawyers Committee for International Human
Rights, a nonprofit group, said he met with them in the afternoon.

He said that the Afghans were being monitored by a doctor and nurse and that one
was being fed intravenously. He said the room in which they were being held was
equipped with a water cooler and a table piled with bananas, apples, grapefruits
and oranges.

According to Mr. Jacey, all of the Afghan at the center, including 17 who are
not participating in the hunger strike, were taken into custody in the last 10
months as they were trying to enter the country through the customs area at
Kennedy International Airport.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 13, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

EMIGRATION FOM U.S. IS RISING, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12


While immigration to the United States has generated attention and controversy,
the largely ignored outward flow has climbed to more than 100,000 people a year,
a new population study estimates.

The first study of emigration since the Eisenhower Administration has found that
30 million foreigners have come to the United States since 1900 and that 10
million people have left this country in the same period.

The study, ''The Elusive Exodus: Emigration from the United States,'' was
published last week by the Population Reference Bureau, a Washington-based
research group.

The study was prepared by Robert Warren of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service and Ellen Percy Kraly of Colgate University and was based
on information gathered from foreign censuses, United Nations statistics and
reports from United States embassies. The United States stopped collecting
statistics on emigrants in 1957.

The authors excluded from their definition of emigrants those who were tourists,
students and others planning to stay elsewhere for a defined period of time.

Outflow Not Surprising

''Since the turn of the century the ratio of immigration to emigration has been
3 to 1,'' the authors said. ''The 30 million legal immigrants the United States
admitted between 1900 and 1980 must be balanced against 10 million emigrants who
left to go elsewhere.''

They said much of the outflow was not surprising, especially early in this
century, when many new arrivals spent a few years trying to adjust and then
either returned home disillusioned or moved elsewhere.

For example, from 1900 to World War I more than 13 million immigrants arrived in
the United States. Four million, however, returned to Europe in the same years,
most leaving within five years of their arrival here.

In more recent years, the researchers found that the flow out of the United
States gained momentum in the 1960's and is continuing, with an estimated
100,000 to 150,000 United States residents leaving annually.

Most Went to Mexico

In the first half of the 1960's, the average annual emigration from the United
States was more than 66,000 people, the authors said. The figure rose to more
than 150,000 a year from 1965 to 1969 and was calculated at over 280,000 in the
early 1970's.

The study calculated that in the period of 1960 to 1976, Mexico was the
principal destination for departing United States residents, receiving 64,600 a
year. West Germany was second with a average of 24,800 annually.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 14, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO'S WAYWARD WASTE: U.S. IS UNHAPPY HOST

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 12


To many residents and officials of southern California, the most irritating
thing about Mexico is not illegal immigration, or its foreign policy, or even
the drug trade that has made headlines recently. It is an environmental
complaint over sewage.

At the best of times, Tijuana's sewage takes up capacity in San Diego's water
treatment system that San Diego increasingly needs for itself. At the worst of
times, it flows untreated into the Tia Juana River, which winds into United
States territory, or into the Pacific Ocean, just five and a half miles below
the border, and is carried by ocean currents onto southern California beaches.

On occasion, such as heavy rains early in 1980, it has spilled into farming
areas such as Smuggler's Gulch, near the border, making them unfit for raising
food. Farmers there are still trying to sell their lands.

The problem of Tijuana's sewage is not particularly new; it has, in fact, gone
on for some 50 years. But its resistance to solution provides a lesson in how
difficult it can be to reach understanding between Mexico and the United States
- even, or perhaps particularly, at their common border.

'A Focus of Irritation'

''It has become a focus of irritation between the people of San Diego and the
people of Mexico,'' said Jorge Bustamante, director of the Tijuna-based Center
for Border Studies of the North. ''People in Mexico think that Washington is
irresponsible. People in San Diego think that Mexicans are inefficient, dirty,
incapable of resolving a problem.

Recent meetings here made substantial progress in developing a solution to the
sewage problem, according to officials on both sides who attended them. But
United States Government officials have yet to have all their concerns
satisfied, and California officials are even more pessimistic.

The United States had hoped to get Mexico to help build a full-scale, $60
million water treatment plant in a basin on the California side of the border,
in line with the water's natural flow. But Mexico, which prides itself on its
dogged nationalism and has little money to invest in public works in its own
country, was unwilling to spend millions on a site in the territory of its
wealthy neighbor.

Mexico offered instead last month to build a relatively inexpensive plant that
would use sediment ponds to hold the waste water until the sewage settles out,
then chlorinate the water before releasing it into the ocean. The system, at a
cost of $12 million, would be expected to handle Tijuana's wastes until the
mid-1990's. American officials are cautiously optimistic, but want guarantees
that this will work. California officials think it will not.

The Problem Worsens

''We don't think it's based in reality,'' said Arthur L. Coe, supervising
engineer for the California Water Quality Control Board. ''Based on past
performance it appears that Mexican public works administration and operation is
somewhat lacking. When they have facilities they very quickly go into disrepair
and do not operate properly.''

The problem has grown worse since Mexico's economic crisis hit in 1982, Mr. Coe
said, leaving Mexico without the resources to repair the minimal sewer system it
now has.

One thing that the Americans do not understand, Mr. Bustamante said, is that the
Mexicans lack the resources to throw money at problems the way they do. ''Things
in Mexico cannot be resolved a la Americana,'' he said. ''They must be resolved
within the resources of Mexico and the priorities of Mexico. The United States
wants to resolve third-world problems in a first- world manner; they don't
realize the third world is on their border.''

What that translates into in fast- growing Tijuana is the need to get water to
and from houses.Just 10 minutes from Tijuana's ultramodern cultural center, its
suburban- style shopping mall and glistening new condominiums in the west of the
city are neighborhoods that lack running water, where wastes - known as aguas
negras, or black waters - flow into lazy creeks where childen play.

Mexico has applied for a $46 million loan from the Inter-American Development
Bank to improve its water supply system, but the United States, a major
participant in the bank, has vowed to vote against the loan unless the sewage
problem is taken care of.

A Significant Achievement

That things have gotten this far is a significant achievement. San Diego
officials for years have grown frustrated trying to get their counterparts in
Tijuana to do something about their waste water, without fully grasping that
under Mexico's strongly centralized system, important or financially costly
decisions are virtually never made at the local level, particularly when a
foreign country is involved.

Mexican federal officials realized this, but were not willing to negotiate with
local officials - they wanted to talk to their federal counterparts.

One of the major achievements of the meeting between President Reagan and
President Miguel de la Madrid in August 1983 was to agree on a ''framework'' to
handle environmental problems at the border.

Although officials from the State Department, the Environmental Protection
Agency and the International Water and Boundary Commission have since joined the
talks, progress has nevertheless been slow. So stongly does public feeling run
in California, Mr. Coe said, that officials have been talking about the
possibility of a bond issue to finance a plant to take care of the problem.

The San Diego water system, meanwhile, is handling 15 million gallons of
Tijuana's 20-million-gallons-a-day sewage output through an emergency link built
in the 1960's. ''It's an emergency all of the time,'' Mr. Coe said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of fish sellers

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 20, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Espionage Trial Begins For Emigre Couple

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 135 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 19


Two emigres from the Soviet Union went on trial on espionage charges today as a
judge began the search for jurors for the case, which involves a former agent
for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Federal District Judge David Kenyon called the first 36 potential panelists to
the courtroom. The judge said he would question them extensively about their
views of immigrants in general and particularly those who speak out publicly
against the United States.

The emigre couple, Svetlana and Nikolay Ogorodnikov, were indicted by a Federal
grand jury in October. They were arrested Oct. 2.

The co-defendant in the case, Richard W. Miller, the first F.B.I. agent charged
with spying for a foreign government, is to be the star witness against the
Ogorodnikovs. His trial is scheduled to follow theirs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 26, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Q. & A. ON ASYLUM: SOME OF THE INS AND OUTS OF WHO GETS IN

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States has a history of offering refuge to people fleeing
persecution, but in recent years the Government has turned down thousands of
applications from citizens of foreign countries seeking asylum here. The denial
of asylum to many Salvadorans, in particular, has stirred protests in recent
weeks from members of Congress and church groups. The following questions and
answers review the confusion and controversy. Question. Who qualifies for
asylum?  Answer. Under the Refugee Act of 1980, an alien may qualify for asylum
if he has ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in his homeland ''on account of
race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or
political opinion.'' It is common to speak of political asylum, but the law does
not restrict asylum to cases of political persecution. Q. How many people get
asylum?  A. The Immigration and Naturalization Service granted 8,278
applications and denied 32,344 last year as it made a major effort to reduce its
backlog of cases. Most of the successful applications came from citizens of Iran
(5,017), Nicaragua (1,018) and Poland (721).

Q. What is the difference between asylum and refugee status?

A. The standards are virtually identical. But a refugee seeks admission to the
United States from a third country outside his homeland. By contrast, to apply
for asylum, an alien must already be in the United States or at a port of entry.
Q. Can you give an example?  A. An Iranian in France might seek admission to the
United States as a refugee. But if he was already here, even if he did not have
a passport or a visa, he could apply for asylum. Q. What about the Cambodians in
Thailand?  A. Many are seeking admission to the United States as refugees. State
Department officials said last week that about 15,000 had been deemed ineligible
because of suspected connections to the Khmer Rouge, the Communists who ruled
Cambodia from 1975 to 1979. Administration officials said later that some might
deserve a second evaluation because it was difficult to determine who had been
affiliated with the Khmer Rouge. Q. Do aliens have a right to asylum?  A. Aliens
have a right not to be returned to countries where they would face persecution.
But this does not mean they have a right to permanent asylum in the United
States. The Refugee Act of 1980 says that aliens with a well-founded fear of
persecution ''may be granted asylum in the discretion of the Attorney General.''
Thus, the Supreme Court has said, aliens who qualify for asylum are not
automatically entitled to it.

Q. In practice, how does a person show a well-founded fear of persecution?

A. Congress did not specify the evidence required, and courts to date have not
agreed on a description of the standard. Courts have said that there must be
''objective facts'' to support an alien's subjective fears of persecution. This
might include testimony that an applicant would face danger in his homeland or
that other people there had suffered persecution for similar reasons. Q. What
else does the Government require?  A. The alien must present ''specific facts''
tending to show that he will be singled out for persecution. The fact that a
person might be injured in civil strife or violence in his homeland is not
enough. Like the Carter Administration, the Reagan Administration contends that
many people who come to the United States from Central America are fleeing
poverty, not persecution, and therefore do not qualify for asylum. Experts on
refugees say that aliens often have a combination of motives. Q. Who decides
whether to approve an application? A. Officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, an agency of the Justice Department. For every
application, they must seek a formal advisory opinion from the State
Department's Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs.

Q. Do foreign policy considerations affect decisions about asylum?

A. Federal officials say they weigh each case individually. Critics say there
sometimes appears to be a double standard, with a presumption against asylum for
some nationalities, including Salvadorans, Haitians, Guatemalans and Pakistanis.
They contend that the State Department, in writing advisory opinions, often
improperly takes account of the possible consequences for foreign policy. The
Administration rejects their criticism and says decisions about asylum are based
on neutral principles.

Q. How does asylum relate to efforts by the sanctuary movement to give aliens
protection in churches?

A. Asylum is an established legal remedy for aliens in this country who fear
persecution in their homelands. Sanctuary is not explicitly mentioned in any
Federal statute. Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, says the sanctuary movement is illegally smuggling and harboring
aliens. Sanctuary workers know they risk being prosecuted, but say their
activity is legal under international law that protects people fleeing war and
other dangerous situations, as well as persecution.

Q. Is the Reagan Administration considering changes in the rules?

A. Yes. One of the proposed changes says an alien could be denied asylum if he
passed through a country where he could have obtained ''safe haven'' en route to
the United States. American officials contend, for example, that Salvadorans
could have stopped off in Mexico and that some of the Afghans who reach this
country could have stayed in Pakistan. The proposed rules are to be issued for
public comment this summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs of requests for asylum in the U.S. and largest groups of
applicants (Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 5, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Letter: On Immigration;
Why the Simpson Bill Has No Cosponsor

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 468 words


To the Editor:

The cry for a ''Simpson-Somebody'' law (''The Simpson-Nobody Bill,'' editorial
May 24) or, in the words of Representative Charles Schumer, the desire for
Congress to ''free itself from the distracting influence of the vociferous few''
(Op-Ed article, May 21) are more rhetorical flourishes than substantive
responses to a complex problem. First of all, perhaps the reason why no one has
seen fit to cosponsor Senator Simpson's bill is because it is not a delicately
balanced piece of legislation.

What is wrong with it? A great deal. I don't think it will answer the question
of how we can effectively control our borders. In addition, it would still be
discriminatory without offering the promise of a complete amnesty. Perhaps most
important, this bill does not examine the foreign policy aspect of immigration
reform, nor does it have adequate anti-discrimination protection against
sanctions.

Further, it does not provide sufficient reimbursement to state governments in
the event that a legalization program of any type is adopted. Finally, it
protects the special interests of growers by expanding the H-2 (temporary
worker) program, while putting the enforcement burden on the backs of
businessmen and minorities.

As chairman of the House Census and Population Subcommittee, I have held three
hearings on immigration this year. I have looked at immigration not from a
legislative perspective but as a population issue. Some of my findings include:

* A study conducted by the General Accounting Office on sanctions already in use
in other countries indicates these laws do not effectively deter illegal
employment.

* The concern about job displacement by undocumented workers is exaggerated, and
in many cases immigrants - documented and undocumented - make positive
contributions to their communities.

* Many of the numbers used in past debate on immigration regarding undocumented
immigration and Immigration and Naturalization Service border apprehensions are
also exaggerated, nor do they reflect the number emigrating from this country.

* The whole issue of immigration reform is of great concern to many of our
neighbors in Latin America, particularly Mexico, and their governments ought at
least to be consulted while we consider this issue.

* There are long-term development strategies that could be implemented that
would help curb undocumented immigration from Latin America.

We will not be able to achieve an equitable and realistic compromise on
immigration reform unless all of us re-evaluate some of our assumptions about
immigration and about what is a balanced and effective way to handle it. I am
willing to take another look. I only hope others are willing to do the
same.ROBERT GARCIA Member of Congress, 18th Dist., N.Y.

Washington, May 24, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 15, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

3 EXECUTIVES CONVICTED OF MURDER FOR UNSAFE WORKPLACE CONDITIONS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 14


In what many lawyers called a landmark decision, three company officials were
found guilty of murder today in an employee's death from cyanide poisoning.

In a nonjury trial, Judge Ronald J. P. Banks of Cook County Circuit Court found
that the three executives of Film Recovery Systems were responsible for
workplace conditions so unsafe that they led to the poisoning of Stefan Golab, a
59-year-old Polish immigrant.

''It's the first case we know of where executives have been found guilty of
murder in an industrially related death,'' said Jay C. Magnuson, one of the
state's prosecutors in the case.

The three men convicted were Steven J. O'Neil, former president of Film Recovery
Systems; Charles Kirschbaum, the plant supervisor, and Daniel Rodriguez, the
plant foreman. They face prison sentences ranging from 20 years to 40 years. The
judge set June 28 as the sentencing date and revoked their bail.

Film Recovery Systems, a defunct company that was based in Elk Grove Village, a
suburb north of Chicago, was convicted of involuntary manslaughter. It faces a
fine of up to $10,000.

Saying he was ''very disturbed'' by the verdict, Thomas Royce, one of the
attorneys for the defendants, said he planned to appeal. The defendants argued
that Mr. Golab died of a heart attack.

Mr. Royce said the case would send a message to executives that ''the typical
notions of conduct in the workplace are subject to criminal justice
proceedings.''

But Joseph E. Hadley, Jr., a Washington-based corporate lawyer specializing in
health and safety issues, said the decision would not send shock waves through
the corporate community. ''I don't think corporate America should be viewed as
in the ballpark with these folks,'' he said. ''This was a highly unusual
situation, but now people see that where the egregious situation occurs, there
could be a criminal remedy.''

The Cook County State's Attorney's Office had argued that Mr. Golab died Feb.
10, 1983, from exposure to hydrogen cyanide fumes in a plant that reclaimed
silver from old film. The prosecutors asserted that the defendants knew about
the problem and that workers often complained about feeling ill.

The prosecutors also argued that many of the plant's employees did not speak or
read English, could not read warnings and were not made aware of the dangers of
working with bubbling vats of chemicals. At the trial, witnesses said that Mr.
Golab had died a week after complaining of illness.

Judge Brady said in his decision, ''The conditions under which workers performed
their duties were totally unsafe.'' He said the executives were ''totally
knowledgeable'' of the plant's hazardous conditions.

Richard M. Daley, the Cook County State's Attorney, said the verdicts ''mean
that employers who knowingly expose their workers to dangerous conditions
leading to injury or even death can be held criminally responsible for the
results of their actions.''

Legal experts said the case was not only the first time executives had been
found guilty on charges of murder in industrial deaths but also the first time
such a case had gone to trial. In New Jersey the Six Flags Corporation of
Chicago is on trial on charges of manslaughter, a less serious charge than
murder, in eight deaths in an amusement park fire last year.

Rarity of the Verdict

''Manslaughter charges against corporations aren't all that rare, but murder
ones are extremely rare,'' said Norval Morris, a criminal law professor at the
University of Chicago. Because of the rarity of today's verdict, he questioned
whether an appeals court would uphold the conviction.

In Illinois, murder is the first degree of homicide, higher than voluntary
manslaughter and involuntary manslaughter. In manslaughter cases, defendants are
often charged with killing someone by acting with a reckless lack of caution. In
the Film Recovery Systems murder case, however, the prosecutor charged that the
company had knowingly ''created a strong probability of death or great bodily
harm.''

Several legal experts said the decision, if upheld in higher courts, would
encourage more prosecutors to bring homicide actions when employees die on the
job.

''It will sensitize prosecutors to the possiblity of bringing this type of
action,'' said Ronald J. Allen, a professor of criminal law at Northwestern
University. ''Over time one will see more and more of these cases.''

Charges are also pending against Michael T. McKay, a former Film Recovery vice
president who lives in Utah. Last year, Scott M. Matheson, then Governor of
Utah, refused to extradite Mr. McKay to Illinois.

The three executives and the company were also found guilty on 14 counts of
reckless conduct.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
Encouraging Messages From the Upper West Side

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and David W. Dunlap

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 135 words


While they were learning about immigration to New York in their social studies
class, fourth graders at P.S. 163 on West 97th Street read about newly arrived
Korean manicurists trying to survive on the Upper West Side of Manhattan without
friends or English.

So the class wrote cards of encouragement to the women at Star Nail, at 2067
Broadway, near 72d Street.

Some cards were in the shape of hands, with bright red fingernails and sparkling
rings. Others showed flags, bottles of champagne with corks popping and the
Statue of Liberty.

The messages were downright inspirational.

''I think you need support,'' wrote Wendy, next to a drawing of the American
flag. ''Giving up doesn't help!''

''Don't give up,'' wrote Katherine Kleinbaum. ''Look at the famous immigrants
like Einstein and Sabin.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 29, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

2 WAR CRIMINALS HAD OFFICIAL HELP IN GETTING TO U.S., STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28


At least two wanted Nazi war criminals, as well as an SS officer and a convicted
assassin, received official American help in immigrating to the United States
after World War II, the General Accounting Office told Congress today. All four
were said to have links to United States intelligence agencies.

Seven other important Nazis and their collaborators who had American
intelligence connections were found to have entered the country but without
official assistance, the accounting office reported.

But the accounting office, an investigative arm of Congress, said it had found
''no specific program'' to help German Nazis who had worked with United States
intelligence to immigrate to the United States.

Report Concludes Inquiry

In a 40-page report wrapping up a three-year investigation into links between
United States agencies and Nazi war criminals in the early postwar years, the
accounting office did not provide the names of any of the Nazis cited, and in
most cases it also withheld, as classified information, the identities of the
intelligence agencies involved.

Congressmen and staff aides who had been eagerly awaiting the report indicated
that they were not happy with the decision to conceal the names of the
individuals and agencies and would press for additional data at hearings on the
report's subject matter, which are to be scheduled, probably after the summer.

The accounting office did not explain why the material was still classified
after almost 40 years, but generally intelligence agency material remains
classified unless there is an overriding reason for making it public.

The report thus appeared likely to repeat a controversy over an accounting
office study on Nazi war criminals. In 1978 the office announced it had found no
evidence of a Government conspiracy to obstruct investigations of reputed war
criminals. That report was widely criticized as superficial, prompting the House
Judiciary Committee to request the latest inquiry.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, called the report's findings ''extremely distressing'' and
added in a statement released with the report:

''The laws and policies of our Government specifically excluded from admission
to the U.S. those wanted for these unspeakable crimes during the war. It is
unconscionable that we had any involvement in allowing anyone responsible for
the Holocaust to find safe haven within our shores.''

For the report, the accounting office analyzed files of 114 Europeans identified
by Government and other sources as Nazis or collaborators of the
German-Italian-Japanese alliance of World War II who had connections to United
States intelligence agencies.

Among those the office said it found had been assisted into the country was a
wartime ''paid Nazi intelligence agent and cabinet member in a German-sponsored
East European Government,'' now dead, who had been listed as a war criminal by
the United National War Crimes Commission for ordering the executions of
suspected Communist sympathizers.

Another war criminal with intelligence links who was said to have been helped
into the country was described as having been involved in ''massacres of several
thousand civilians, predominantly Jews.''

About 1951, the report said, he was approached in the American occupation zone
of Germany by a Soviet agent who attempted to recruit him for spying. Instead,
according to the report, he turned the Russian in to the Americans. As a reward,
an American intelligence agency helped him into the United States several years
later, the report said.

After rising to an important job on an unnamed intelligence project, he came
under investigation by the Justice Department's Nazi hunting office. He died
before the inquiry could be concluded.

John Loftus, a former investigator in the Justice Department's Office of Special
Investigtions for war crimes cases, said the identification seemed to match the
case of Stanislaw Stankievich, a Byelorussian who worked for Radio Liberty, an
American broadcasting station with intelligence links.

A man who was identified as a member of the SS, the Nazi elite guard, was
reported to have been assisted into the country. He was described as having been
involved ''in the confiscation of Jewish properties and the resettlement of
Jews.'' The American intelligence agency he worked with did not know this at
first, the report said, but when officials learned of it they appeared to take
no action.

Another figure brought into the country was described as a member of an
underground revolutionary group in Europe who had been convicted of taking part
in an assassination plot against an unnamed high East European official and who
later escaped from prison.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Judge Orders U.S. To Admit Homosexual

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 29


Federal District Judge Robert Aguilar has issued a temporary injunction
declaring that immigration officials cannot deny foreigners entry to the United
States simply because they acknowledge they are homosexuals.

The case involved a Mexican writer, Juan Jacobo Hernandez, 43 years old, who was
invited to be grand marshal of the Lesbian-Gay Freedom Parade in San Francisco
on Sunday. Mr. Hernandez, with the support of a number of homosexuals here,
acknowledged his sexual orientation as a test of immigration policies. The
United States bars admission of alien homosexuals to the United States on the
ground that they are medically unfit.

In 1982 Judge Aguilar ruled that the authorities must conduct a medical test to
determine whether an alien seeking to enter the country is a homosexual. The
Government argued that Mr. Hernandez's avowal of homosexuality was adequate, but
the judge said Friday the authorities must conduct a ''meaningful'' test.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

RODINO TO PROPOSE IMMIGRATION BILL IN HOUSE

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18


Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
said today that he would introduce a comprehensive immigration bill next week.
He said he planned to make the issue one of his top legislative priorities this
year.

Supporters of the measure said the personal involvement of Mr. Rodino could
significantly strengthen the bill's chances. For several months House proponents
of the immigration bill have had difficulty finding a suitable sponsor.

Meanwhile, the Senate Judiciary Committee began work on that chamber's version
of the legislation.

''It is a mistake to let this problem go unaddressed,'' said Mr. Rodino, who is
a New Jersey Democrat. ''What's going to happen if we don't act is that a
psychology will develop that says, 'Don't let anybody in.' ''

Rodino Hopes for Passage in '85

In the past two sessions of Congress, House versions of a bill to rewrite the
nation's immigration laws have been introduced by Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky.

Mr. Rodino said Mr. Mazzoli would co-sponsor his bill. Mr. Rodino said he hoped
to move the legislation through the House this year.

Mr. Rodino said his sponsorship meant ''the way is going to be strewn with a lot
fewer obstacles.'' But he said the position of the Reagan Administration would
be crucial.

President Reagan expressed support for past immigration bills, but Mr. Rodino
noted that the subject had never been deemed worthy of inclusion in the
President's State of the Union Message.

In the Senate, the sponsor of the measure, Alan K. Simpson, told the Judiciary
Committee that his new bill was designed to accommodate critics who had stopped
the measures in the last two sessions of Congress.

The previous attempts to pass immigration legislation relied on precariously
balanced alliances of interest groups that came apart under the pressure of
trying to reach a compromise. Mr. Simpson, a Republican from Wyoming, in remarks
to the committee, suggested similar frictions had been developing this year.

'Toughest Guys to Deal With'

Discussing demands of Western growers for an expanded program for temporary
workers, Mr. Simpson said, ''Their greed knows no bounds.''

''I don't know what the hell to do with them,'' Mr. Simpson said later in an
interview. ''I don't know how I can accommodate them. I'll never be right for
them; they're the toughest guys to deal with.''

For several years growers have been pushing for a program that would admit large
numbers of immigrant workers. Some have testified that they now depend almost
completely on illegal aliens to harvest crops and would thus lose most of their
workers if the bill became law.

The new Senate bill contains the main provisions of earlier legislation. It
would impose monetary penalties on employers who hired illegal aliens and would
grant legal status to aliens who arrived in the country before Jan. 1, 1980. In
a departure from past legislation, Mr. Simpson would delay the legal status for
aliens until a Presidential commission certified that the flow of illegal aliens
into the United States had been curbed.

Mr. Simpson said he hoped the Senate would pass the bill before it adjourned for
its August recess.

Mr. Rodino said the bill he was drafting would not link an amnesty for illegal
aliens to the findings of a commission. He said it would also allow more aliens
to qualify for legal status than the Senate bill by setting a later cutoff date.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat of Brooklyn and a member of the
Judiciary Committee, said that Congressmen who followed immigration had met
privately and concluded that this year was ''the last chance for balanced
immigration reform.''

Mr. Schumer tried in the past to fashion a compromise on the temporary worker
issue that would allow the bill to pass.

This year, he said, members of Hispanic groups as well as others in Congress had
concluded that failure to pass a bill in this Congress would lead to a more
restrictive bill in future years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Births Up, but Experts Don't Call It a Boom

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21


Americans had more children in 1984 than the previous year, but the increase was
only an echo of the baby boom of the 1950's and early 1960's, the Census Bureau
reported today.

There were 3,690,000 births and 2,046,000 deaths in 1984, the bureau said in its
report analyzing the components of population change.

In 1983 there were 3,618,000 births, down from 3,681,000 in 1982. In addition to
the gain from births last year, net immigration was estimated at 523,000, to
bring the nation's population to 237,839,000 as of Jan. 1, 1985.

Census Bureau officials said the nation's total fertility rate for 1984 was
1,819 births per 1,000 women, which is below the level needed to keep the
population constant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 11, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Agrees to Detain Jailed Cuban Refugees

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 29, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 182 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 10


The Justice Department has decided to continue taking custody of Cuban inmates
released after serving time for crimes committed since they arrived in the
United States in 1980.

It is the policy of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport illegal
aliens convicted of a crime in the United States. But the Justice Department
said Friday that it would stop holding the former inmates awaiting deportation
because President Fidel Castro of Cuba was refusing to accept any more
deportees.

The decision brought an outcry from Florida officials including Gov. Bob Graham,
who threatened today to file suit to prevent the Cubans' release.

But Senator Paula Hawkins, Republican of Florida, said later that an immigration
official had told her the Justice Department rescinded the decision.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
defended the original decision Friday, saying Federal prisons did not have space
for the estimated 1,000 refugees serving time for crimes committed after they
arrived in the United States from Mariel, Cuba, in 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 13, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Ideological Tactics of the Immigration Service

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 281 words


To the Editor:

Your timely ''Issue and Debate'' on the ideological exclusion of alien
intellectuals (July 28) was surprisingly incomplete. You neglected to mention
that there is no waiver of ideological excludability available to a foreigner
who seeks permanent resident status.

Take the case of Margaret Randall, a Mexican author of more than 40 books. Her
husband, parents, son and siblings are all U.S. citizens. However, Miss Randall
lived in Cuba and Nicaragua, frequently criticized U.S. foreign policy and once
described herself as ''Marxist.''

When she applied for permanent resident status, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service questioned her at length about her writings and beliefs.
The I.N.S. has indicated that Miss Randall will be denied the right to reside
with her U.S. citizen family solely because of her ideas. Previously, she
entered the U.S. as a visitor granted an ideological waiver.

You did not point out that the I.N.S. denies permanent resident status to
ideological ''subversives'' without advising them of their offense. Such
information is declared ''classified'' by the I.N.S. However, the agency accords
the applicant a hearing. But permanent resident status will be granted only if
the applicant can establish that he or she is not a ''subversive'' without being
told how, when, where or according to whom the ''subversive'' act was committed!

These two important aspects of the ideological-exclusion provisions of our
immigration laws underscore both their antidemocratic character and the urgent
need for their abolition. MICHAEL MAGGIO Washington, July 30, 1985 The writer is
a lawyer specializing in immigration and nationality law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

OUR TOWNS;
SONGS OF THE PAST: AN ACCOMPANIMENT TO HISTORY

BYLINE: By Michael Norman, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 56, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J.


Turn historians loose and there's no telling where they'll discover the past.
Here, for example, Virginia Yans McLaughlin has been mining for meaning in the
lament of a song.

I have just arrived across the plains, Oh, didn't I have awful times!

It makes the blood run greasy through my veins, I'm so disappointed in the
mines.

When I go home with an empty sack, I'll show them where the Indians shot me in
the back, And how my mules laid down and died, And I near starved to death
beside.

The title of this tune about a gold miner's troubles is ''Emigrant from Pike,''
one of nearly a thousand melodies and lyrics - written by or about immigrants -
that Professor McLaughlin and her collaborator, Lutz Rath, a cellist, have been
assembling.

The study of America's immigrants and the myths that surround them is on the
rise. Professor McLaughlin, who teaches at Rutgers University here and serves on
two projects connected with the renovation of Ellis Island and the Statue of
Liberty, believes she has discovered in music a source of untapped historical
documents.

''What I argue,'' she says, ''is that when you look sensitively at these
documents, what you discover is that many people didn't necessarily buy the
American dream. And it doesn't take very much decoding to get the message.''

For example, here are the bitter lyrics of the song ''Twelve Hundred More,''
which, according to Philip S. Foner in his book, ''American Labor Songs of the
19th Century,'' was popular in the struggle of the nascent United States labor
movement to stem the flow of Chinese immigrants:

Twelve hundred honest laboring men Thrown out of work today By the landing of
these Chinamen In San Francisco Bay.

Twelve hundred pure and virtuous girls, In the papers I have read, Must barter
away their virtue To get a crust of bread.

And in the same vein, there is ''John Chinaman, My Jo,'' with its self-righteous
warning in the last verse:

John Chinaman, my jo, John, Though folks at you may rail, Here's blessings on
your head, John, And more power to your tail; But a bit of good advice, John.

I'll give you, ere I go- Don't abuse the freedom you enjoy, John Chinaman, my
jo.

''What does this tell you about society?'' Miss McLaughlin asks. ''Does it tell
you everyone gets ahead or does it tell you something more complex about how
labor was organized in a capitalist society?''

Professor McLaughlin and Mr. Rath have culled their material from published
collections, junk-shop basements, the old log books of recording engineers and a
huge warehouse at the Library of Congress.

They talk of their ''hidden treasures,'' such as a song composed by Enrico
Caruso about the Statue of Liberty - one of 26 different compositions about the
statue - and 400 weathered boxes of Yiddish sheet music.

''I found a libretto written by an Italian composer about an opium den in San
Francisco,'' Mr. Rath said. ''It's a story of betrayal. It's incredible.''

Some of the songs are brutal in their prejudice and slander, like ''The
Irishman's Shanty, a Favorite Comic Song with Imitations'':

Did you ever go into an Irishman's shanty?

Ah! there boys you'll find the whiskey so plenty. With a pipe in his mouth there
sits Paddy so free.

No kind in his palace is prouder than he.

And then there are the answers to the slights, such as ''The True Irish Gents,''
a song in a collection called ''Lost Chords,'' by Douglas Gilbert:

It's a shame on stage how they mimic our race, In a style that's a mystery to
me.

How the people in front will stand such insults, Receiving such blockheads with
glee.

And there were those who sang of leaving their homelands and great expectations
for the New World:

Norway is a beggarly country, and I am going to America.

Here I must slave and suffer want: in America every one can earn his bread.

Over there I shall find riches and plenty. Farewell, farewell; now I am off!

You'll be sorry you didn't come along.

And there were those, like Scottish composer Robert Gilfillan, who pined to
return:

Oh, why I left my hame? Why did I cross the deep? Oh! why left I the land Where
my forefathers sleep?'' I sigh for Scotia's shore, And I gaze across the sea,
But I canna get a blink, O my ain countrie!

And finally, in the chorus of ''Men Shart Gold in America,'' a biting Yiddish
self-parody written at the turn of the century, the lyricists A. Schor and
Joseph I. Tannzman ape the myth of the immigrant's dream:

Ve'll go t'America oi oi America ve'll have lots of fun make money by de ton
ve'll buy a little horse a carriage too of course and right in de back de gold
ve'll pack, so let us go, not be slow and do like ve vos told day and night vit
all our might ve'll rake in all de gold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Lutz Rath and Virginia Yans McLaughlin (NYT/Jim Wilson)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 29, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS' SCHOOL NEVER SAYS NEVER

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section C; Page 9, Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 28


The message outside the Emily Griffith Opportunity School is clear. The
blocklong building beckons with ''Opportunity'' in capital letters above the
door.

For seven decades, Miss Griffith's dream of a school ''for all who wish to
learn'' has been a reality, offering vocational courses of every sort -English
for the foreign-born, avocations by the dozen.

Miss Griffith, the schoolteacher, would haul a pot of soup to the school each
evening so that new immigrants could eat before class.

Today, the ''Op School'' still operates 14 hours a day, five days a week, 11
months a year. But there are no more classes in telegraphy, millinery and
horseshoeing, and the immigrants are more likely to be Asian than European. Yet
after 1.4 million students the mission is the same.

''We just do what people want us to do,'' the administrator, Ladell Thomas, said
during a farewell tour shortly before his recent retirement. ''Students can come
in here today -any day - and start class tomorrow. If we don't have what they
need, we try to get it.''

What Miss Griffith dreamed of was simple. Having seen the parents of her
students struggling to cope in a new world, she decided that education could not
be just for the young, and that it could not be governed by the schoolroom
clock.

The Opportunity School's emphasis on providing what people need makes for some
interesting classmates.

After Denver District Judge James Flanagan retired from the bench Jan. 8, he
says he fulfilled a lifelong dream by enrolling, just a day later, in the
Opportunity School's general auto mechanics class.

When Brother Sebastian Tobin decided to take a shoemaking class, after spending
a few years making sandals for his religious order at the Church of St. Francis
of Assisi in New York, he chose the Opportunity School for his education.

About 135,000 students a year enroll at Opportunity School, Mr. Thomas said.
''Many of them come here for one specific thing and, after three weeks or so,
they leave us.''

The ''open entry-open exit'' system of allowing a student to enroll whenever
ready and the individualized instruction given each student have attracted the
attention of educators from around the world.

Mr. Thomas is fond of saying the number of instructors who did not graduate from
teachers' colleges make the individualized instruction possible.

There are just under 80 full-time teachers and 400 to 500 who teach part time
have full-time jobs in their chosen field.

Tuition is free for Denver residents. Those who live outside Denver pay a
maximum of $670 a year.

About half the $9 million annual budget comes from the school district, the rest
from state and Federal grants, Mr. Thomas said.

''Suppose someone comes in who has a sixth-grade math background and they want
to get into electronics,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''We could say, 'No, that's
impossible.' We don't. We say, honestly, 'Maybe you won't be able to do it, but
you have the opportunity.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 3, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CBS EXAMINES IMMIGRATION ISSUES

BYLINE: By JOHN CORRY

SECTION: Section C; Page 17, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 676 words


''WHOSE AMERICA IS IT?'' recognizes complexity. The ''CBS Reports'' program, on
Channel 2 at 8 o'clock tonight, looks at new immigrants, legal and illegal, and
says they create problems. At the same time, it assigns no blame. Immigration
policy is bedeviled by too many competing factors.

And chief among these, of course, are the immigrants themselves. By tradition
and practice, America has not penalized immigrants. Assimilation has been the
nation's glory; the phrase ''a nation of immigrants'' is a cliche. Immigrants
have met hostility and resentment, but our institutions have been flexible
enough to accept them. Immigrants, in turn, have accepted our institutions.

Thus a problem: What if immigrants decline to learn English? Bill Moyers, the
CBS correspondent, reminds us that the United States is now the seventh-largest
Spanish-speaking country. Dade County in Florida spends $18 million each year on
bilingual education, and still graduates students who do not speak English. They
do not need to. It is possible to live in Florida, and prosper, entirely in
Spanish.

Is this wrong? Mr. Moyers speaks to a Hispanic businessman, who says the
language controversy is ''a racist issue.'' To an extent, it probably is. Mr.
Moyers interviews people whose feelings may be suspect. But we also hear a
thoughtful Miami businessman, who says: ''The glue of society has to do with its
language. Without having language as a common bond, we don't have a society any
longer.''

So much for racism; it exists, but there are legitimate concerns, too. ''Whose
America Is It?'' - produced and directed by Elena Mannes - explores a
multilayered problem by casting it in human terms. It does not pay enough
attention to the economic impact, good and bad, of the new immigrants, although
that's a conscious decision. The program is concerned with people, or, as Mr.
Moyers says, ''the human conflicts that make it hard to find the political
answer to the question: whose America is it?''

In fact, Mr. Moyers is pretty good in this area. He projects an intelligent
interest. He seems concerned. He sits against a tree at a construction site in
Dallas, talking to undocumented Mexican workers. A union spokesman has said that
Mexican workers deprive American citizens of jobs, which is presumably true.
''But the illegals who have jobs will tell you the issue for them is also
survival,'' Mr. Moyers says. This is presumably true, too.

Later Mr. Moyers speaks to an immigration official, who says we have a
''sovereign right to control'' our borders. Mr. Moyers agrees, but says we do
not have the ''sovereign capacity'' for control. Then Congress must ''bite the
bullet,'' the official says, and penalize employers who hire illegal aliens.

That's also true. But the ''Whose America Is It?'' gives us employers who rely
on illegal aliens to stay in business. Silicon Valley, one businessman says,
would suspend operations without them. Meanwhile, immigration-reform bills rise
and fall in Congress. The program doesn't identify him, but one of the Senators
we see discussing immigration policy is Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican
whose own carefully nurtured bill wasn't passed. Immigration reform is a
sensitive issue.

''Whose America Is It?'' also gives us some spectacular, even moving, glimpses
of illegal immigrants waiting to cross the border. They cluster on hilltops
around smokey fires, waiting for night. Darkness falls. We hear whispers. The
illegal immigrants are moving. Border patrolmen are moving, too, shining their
flashlights into the darkess. A helicopter hovers overhead. Two women with
packages emerge from a cluster of bushes. They will be returned to Mexico, and
then presumably try to cross the border again.

The program offers no solutions, although in outlining the problem it justifies
its conclusion. ''Our current policy is immigration anarchy, full of holes and
hypocrisy,'' Mr. Moyers says. This is not hopeful, but it does appear to be
accurate. ''Whose America Is It?'' is an intelligent, sensitive piece of work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Bill Moyers

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 9, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

MEN ONLY A THIRD OF U.S. IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8


A new Labor Department study says that women and children account for two-thirds
of all legal immigration to the United States, contrary to conventional wisdom.

The stereotypical view of immigrants as young, working-age men who leave their
homelands seeking economic opportunity is a correct picture of immigration in
nearly all other countries, the report said.

But it said that in recent years, as in the last five decades, ''the traditional
working-age immigrant male has accounted for only a third of all immigration to
the United States.''

The American trend had gone virtually unnoticed by researchers and Government
officials, but may have major implications for immigration policy. If the number
of immigrants entering the labor market is smaller than had been assumed, the
adverse effect on the wages and working conditions of American workers would be
less than many people had believed. On the other hand, immigration would
probably not generate as much economic growth if there were fewer immigrants
working in this country.

The authors said they were surprised by the findings of the study, the first to
compile and analyze immigration data by sex. In view of the new data, they said,
the effect of immigration on the American labor market ''may have been
overestimated and almost certainly has been miscast.''

Pattern Called Unique

Legal immigration averaged 433,600 a year in the 1970's, and the annual average
has been 566,600 in the last five years.

''Since 1930,'' it said, ''more than half of all immigrants to the United States
have been female, and two-thirds have been women or children.'' The ''unvarying
predominance of female immigrants appears unique,'' it said. ''Other
international migration flows are still generally dominated by males.''

Officials had assumed that most immigrants went to work soon after entering the
United States. Actually, the study said, children represent one-fourth of all
immigrants and elderly immigrants, most of whom are women, may never enter the
labor market.

Jeffrey S. Passel, a Census Bureau demographer who specializes in immigration,
said the Labor Department study showed that ''the traditional picture of
immigration is different from the reality over the last 50 years.'' The
dominance of women and children, he said, ''is a point that almost everybody has
overlooked.''

The study was written by Marion F. Houstoun, Roger G. Kramer and Joan M.
Barrett, immigration specialists at the Labor Department.

Authors Cite Reasons for Pattern

They listed several reasons for the ''female predominance'' in immigration to
this country. United States immigration policy strongly favors reunification of
families, they observed. Immigration laws have become more restrictive over the
last 50 years, they said, but there is no numerical limit on immigration of
aliens who are immediate relatives of United States citizens. Most of the
immediate relatives are women because American men are much more likely than
women to marry aliens.

In addition, the study said, ''more mothers than fathers immigrated to the
United States to be reunited with their U.S. citizen children.'' Women tend to
live longer than men, it noted, and most of the women immigrants in this
category were ''widowed mothers joining their children in the United States.''

United States citizens also adopted more girls than boys from overseas. The
study said that more girls were available for adoption from abroad and that
Americans seeking to adopt aliens showed ''an overwhelming preference'' for
girls. The authors said they did not know the reason for this preference.

Roger L. Conner, the executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a nonprofit group that lobbies for more restrictive
immigration policies, said the study showed that ''the overwhelming majority of
immigrants who enter the United States today come to complete a family, rather
than to work.''

Little Data on Illegal Migrants

The study, which is being published in The International Migration Review, a
professional journal, did not discuss illegal immigration, for which there are
no authoritative statistics. Mrs. Houstoun said in an interview this week:
''Illegal immigration is dominated by men. However, in recent years, there seem
to be increasing numbers of illegal alien women, and the proportion of women
among illegal migrants is also increasing.''

The Labor Department study said that women dominated legal immigration to the
United States from Europe and Southeast Asia, while men dominated immigration
from Africa and the Middle East. In the last decade, it said, women accounted
for 72 percent of the immigrants from Finland and West Germany, 69 percent of
those from Thailand, 67 percent from Japan and 62 percent from Sweden. By
contrast, women accounted for only 13 percent of immigration from Yemen, 32
percent from Nigeria and 34 percent from Ghana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 10, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET BOYS CASE MAY BECOME MOOT

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 9


Lawyers from the Justice Department and the American Civil Liberties Union
argued today over whether Walter Polovchak's parents still had the right to
''coerce'' the teen-ager to return to the Soviet Union.

In 1980, when he was 13 years old, Walter defied his parents, Anna and Michael
Polovchak, when they decided to leave Chicago and return to the Soviet Union. He
was granted asylum and lives on Chicago's Northwest Side with his 22-year-old
sister, Natalie, and a cousin.

In three weeks, on Oct. 3, Walter will be 18 and can legally decide where he
wants to live. Today's arguments, before a three-judge panel of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, turned on whether the parents
would return here before then, what their intent would be and whether they would
legally be able to ''coerce'' Walter to return to the Soviet Union.

Mr. and Mrs. Polovchak, represented by the A.C.L.U., have argued that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service denied them due process when it prevented
them from taking their son home.

Parents' Position Upheld

In July Federal District Judge Thomas R. McMillen upheld their position and
issued an injunction forbidding the immigration service to enforce a departure
control order dating from 1982. The order prevented Walter from being removed
from the United States against his will.

On July 29 the Reagan Administration appealed Judge McMillen's ruling, and on
July 30 the appeals court issued a stay that kept the departure order in effect.

Carolyn B. Kuhl, a Deputy Assistant Attorney General, argued today that the case
was moot. Citing an A.C.L.U. brief filed two weeks ago, which said that the
Polovchaks did not intend to use ''unlawful or otherwise abusive force to
coerce'' Walter to return, she said, ''The brief suggested to us that Walter
wouldn't be taken out involuntarily or against his will.''

However, the civil liberties group's legal director, Harvey Grossman, disputed
that interpretation in his testimony today.

Under questioning from the three judges, Mr. Grossman refused to rule out the
possibility that the Polovchaks might come to the United States before Walter's
birthday to talk with him about his decision. Mr. Grossman also said they had
the right to ''exert all of the lawful control of behavioral coercion,''
including corporal punishment, to persuade him. ''Voluntary doesn't work for
parent-child relationships,'' he said.

Fear of Kidnapping Cited

The Justice Department argued today that lifting the order could result in
Walter's being drugged or kidnapped and forcibly taken out of the country, and
that he might be imprisoned in the Soviet Union or sent into internal exile if
he were returned.

''In reading what the Justice Department was saying, it looked as though we had
an agreement'' to have the case declared moot, said Jay Miller, executive
director of the Chicago office of the A.C.L.U.

At issue, he said, was what role the parents could play in possibly changing
Walter's mind.

The A.C.L.U. argued that as long as the parents did not use illegal force to
remove Walter from the United States, the Government had no right to intervene.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 16, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CATHOLIC BISHOPS SAY WOMEN'S ROLE SHOULD BE LARGER

BYLINE: By WILLIAM R. GREER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words


The nation's Catholic leadership yesterday asserted that the Roman Catholic
Church in the United States needed to affirm the ''rights and dignity'' of women
in the church and to further ''their advancement to positions of leadership and
decision-making.''

The president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, Bishop James W.
Malone, also said that the church must do more to reach minority groups like
Hispanic-Americans, blacks, and recent immigrant groups and seek to ''develop
leadership from among them.''

Bishop Malone's remarks were contained in a report written at the request of
Pope John Paul II in preparation for a special international synod of bishops
the Pope has called to examine the results of the Second Vatican Council of
1962-65 ''in light of new needs.'' The extraordinary synod will begin Nov. 25 in
Rome and last until Dec. 8.

Countering Protestant Gains

The report, prepared with the assistance of bishops of the conference and
leading American theologians, represents a reaffirmation of the American
church's positions as the bishops approach the international forum, where they
will be dealing with many clerics with more conservative views.

The 14-page document urged that efforts be made to attract new church followers
in order to ''counter proselytizing by Protestant fundamentalists'' and to
''clarify and reinforce Catholic identity.''

''Particular attention must now be given to women, both lay and religious,'' the
report said. ''Their role in the church and society must be clarified, their
rights and dignity must be affirmed, and their advancement to positions of
leadership and decision-making must continue. The church needs also to define
the appropriate Christian stance toward the secular feminist movement.''

No Shift on Ordination

The report stopped short, however, of suggesting that women be ordained to the
priesthood, said William Ryan, associate secretary of public affairs for the
conference. ''On the one hand the church should try in every way to utilize
women's gifts and talents,'' he said, ''but not through their ordination. It is
meant that they should be advanced as much as possible within the confines of
church discipline.''

''This is a key document,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''It's the assessment of the
president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops of where the church is
in the United States today.''

Eileen McMahon, the president of the Long Island chapter of the Women's
Ordination Conference, a national organization that seeks the ordination of
women, praised the report. ''Now, women are in some places doing administrative
work,'' she said. ''They are chaplains, they are taking positions that once used
to be positions of the ordained ministry only. Once people become accustomed to
seeing women in these roles, then the ordination may not seem so unthinkable.''

The report also said the church needed to appeal to minorities and to those who
have lapsed from church membership.

''Far more must be done to reach out to alienated Catholics and the
unchurched,'' the report said. ''Programs of evangelization, catechesis and
service to human needs are also needed for such groups as Hispanics, blacks and
recent immigrants, along with continued efforts to develop leadership from among
them.''

Bishop Malone also called for a reaffirmation of the reforms of the Second
Vatican Council and said that the American Catholic Church had made errors in
its interpretation and application of Vatican II, which sought to reform church
practices by altering liturgy and encouraging social action by Catholics.

Reassessing Vatican II

The Bishop said the interpretation of the Council's reforms in the last 20 years
was sometimes marked by ''inadequate preparation'' by church leaders and a
misunderstanding of ''the Council's authentic teaching and spirit.''

''To some extent,'' Bishop Malone said, ''such failures were rooted in the
attitudes of persons in positions of leadership and opinion formation, who
either resisted the Vatican II reforms or advanced personal agendas in the name
of renewal.''

''Some of the things being done in name of Vatican II, really weren't in the
spirit of Vatican II,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''It's saying that maybe the church did
lose some good things, like the devotions, and it was time to see if it wasn't
really time to take stock of Vatican II. It is certainly not for doing away with
some of the reforms of Vatican II.''

Vatican II, which took place in four sessions over three years, was intended to
''open the windows of the church to the modern age,'' in the words of Pope John
XXIII, who convened the council.

But disputes among liberal and conservative Catholics have arisen since the
council over how the sweeping changes should be interpreted. Some conservatives
have contended that more liberal Catholics have used the council's spirit to
dilute church doctrine and Catholic identity. Liberals, in turn, have accused
the conservatives of seeking to move away from the concerns and changes of
Vatican II.

In Bishop Malone's assessment, the Catholic Church ''stands in need of a new
philosophical and conceptual framework - perhaps, also, a new symbolic and
affective system -through which to proclaim the gospel to the modern world.''

''There is a great need for clarification of many questions pertaining to
ministry, priesthood, and authority in the Church, and for efforts to dispel the
widespread popular confusion about moral issues and the moral doctrine of the
church,'' the Bishop said.

Synod of Americans Suggested

Bishop Malone suggested that after the synod in Rome this winter, American
bishops hold a synod of their own - something that has not happened since the
Council of Baltimore in the 1880's - in order to address issues raised in Rome.

Mr. Ryan said he did not know what authority such a synod would have, but he
said that the Baltimore synod had produced a catechism that ''became a dominant
force in the religious life of American Catholics'' for half a century. In
addition, he said, it was instrumental in creating the nation's Catholic school
system.

Among the problems that Bishop Malone's report cites are:

* A decline in the popular commitment to evangelization and the missionary
spirit among American Catholics. In 1950, there were 4.3 adult converts a year
per 1,000 active Catholics and now there are 1.8.

* False ideas about ecumenism, including the idea that the differences between
the Catholic Church and other Christian churches are of little practical
importance.

* A blurring in the roles of priests and lay people in the last 20 years, which
need to be redefined.

* Problems stemming from liturgical changes, including both resistance to change
and efforts to introduce further innovations.

Cultural Changes Cited

Bishop Malone, however, did not attribute all of the problems cited in the
report to interpretations of Vatican II.

''Cultural factors originating outside the Church and the Council account for
many recent problems in Catholic life in the United States, as in many other
countries,'' he said. ''Among these factors are exaggerated individualism, the
culturally conditioned disinclination of many persons to make permanent
commitment, the breakdown of marriage and family life, the sexual revolution and
exaggerated secular feminism.''

The Bishop suggested developing ''new tools and instruments,'' like a universal
catechism of Vatican II, authorized summaries of Council documents in simple
language, audio-visual popularizations of its precepts and the reviving of
Catholic devotions, which have largely disappeared from Catholic life in last 20
years.

He also recommended clarifying the role of priests in the church, with an
emphasis on the ''radical difference between ordained and non-ordained
ministry,'' and ''specifically addressing such issues as celibacy and the
general weakening of the sense of commitment apparent in our culture today.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Bishop James W. Malone (UPI)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 27, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Afghan Refugees Who Shouldn't Be Behind U.S. Bars

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 437 words


To the Editor:

On Sept. 12, The Times published a brief news article about the end of a hunger
strike by 15 of the Afghans held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in a New York City detention facility. Unfortunately, their cause has received
only passing attention as these refugees take desperate steps to make their
plight known.

In this case we see another example of a cold-hearted policy in which our
Government indefinitely detains bona fide refugees fleeing Soviet persecution in
Afghanistan. Although the Administration has the discretion to release these
people while awaiting rulings on their asylum claims, the I.N.S. steadfastly
refuses to re-evaluate this detention policy.

Why are these Afghans detained? Because they lacked appropriate documentation
upon entering the United States and were deemed detainable by the I.N.S.

In other words, they neglected to ask the permission of the Soviet-backed
Government in Kabul to leave Afghanistan, and therefore arrived here without
proper Afghan passports. If not for this infraction, they would not be
languishing in an American detention facility, some for as long as 14 months.

Exactly what the U.S. proves by detaining these people, adding injury to the
great pain they have already suffered, is difficult to determine.

Once again it seems important to remind ourselves that our country was founded
as a haven for people seeking greater freedom, a refuge from discrimination and
oppression. Today, some in this country seem to have forgotten that important
lesson. What is particularly curious in this case is that the U.S. Government
purports to support the cause of the Afghan freedom fighters. Yet we jail those
among them who seek protection within our borders.

Last June, 36 members of Congress, both Democrats and Republicans, joined
together in appealing to Attorney General Edwin Meese to release these Afghans
while their asylum claims are adjudicated. This request was rejected.

It is now time to bring this matter to the attention of President Reagan, who
can demonstrate to these Afghans, and to other freedom-seeking people, that
America stands behind their cause.

We are not asking that the Government break the law. In fact, the overwhelming
majority of more than 10,000 individuals within U.S. borders currently seeking
asylum are not detained for a single day while their claims are considered by
our Government. We merely ask that the Afghans be given the same treatment as
these other asylum seekers. Justice would then be better served. GARY L.
ACKERMAN Member of Congress, 7th Dist., N.Y.

Washington, Sept. 19, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

TRIAL OPENING IN ARIZONA IN ALIEN SANCTUARY CASE

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Oct. 20


It started obscurely with a chance encounter on a hot, dusty day in July 1981
when a friend of Jim Corbett's picked up a hitchhiker on the outskirts of
Nogales, just north of the border.

The hitchhiker, young, tired and frightened, said he was a refugee from El
Salvador. As the car rolled through the Great Sonoran desert, he told of death
and torture in his homeland, of how several of his relatives had fallen victim
to death squads that killed seemingly at random, and of how he had been lucky to
escape with his life.

When the driver reached a Border Patrol checkpoint, the young Salvadoran was
discovered, taken into custody, put in a detention camp and ultimately deported.

Moved by the encounter, the man discussed it with Mr. Corbett, a graying,
retired goat rancher and Harvard philosophy graduate who had been active in the
antiwar movement.

Religious Community Involved

Equally moved, Mr. Corbett, a Quaker with wide contacts in the religious
community, quietly and at first surreptitiously formed a fledgling ''underground
railroad'' to smuggle Central American refugees into this country and hide them
from the immigration authorities, acts the Government has viewed as in defiance
of immigration law.

On Tuesday, James A. Corbett, 52 years old, will go on trial, as will the Rev.
John A. Fife, 45, pastor of Tucson Southside Presbyterian Church, two Roman
Catholic priests, a nun and six church lay workers. They face a total of 67
felony counts involving smuggling, transporting and concealing illegal aliens.
Although they admit their role in bringing the aliens into the United States,
the defendants say they acted properly under the provisions of immigration law
that provides for political asylum for refugees.

Charges against two other nuns, one of whom was suffering from a degenerative
disease, were dropped by the Government, and three other women have pleaded
guilty to reduced misdemeanor charges in the case. They are awaiting sentencing.

Those awaiting trial, if convicted, face possible prison sentences of up to five
years on each count against them.

Anger Was First Motive

At first, Mr. Corbett recalled, he acted out of neither religion nor reason but
out of anger.

He thought he could simply call the immigration authorities and ask that Central
Americans facing violence be allowed to stay in the United States.

He soon learned that the United States usually regarded Central Americans here
as economic refugees, not political ones. No more than 3 percent of Salvadorans
applying for asylum are granted it. The rest are sent home. It was then, Mr.
Corbett says, that his anger blended with what he calls a basic conviction
common to almost all religions.

''The protection of people threated by murder and torture is fundamental to the
faith of many denominations,'' he said in a recent interview in Tucson.

Within months Mr. Corbett and others had formed the church-based movement to
give sanctuary to illegal aliens, and had planted the seeds of the most serious
confrontation between church and state since some churches counseled and
harbored draft resisters in the Vietnam War era.

Seeking Aid From Church

In the beginning, Mr. Corbett and the other defendants readily admit, they
worked secretly, bringing Central Americans into this country through Mexican
contacts, mostly in the Catholic Church, and hiding them in their homes.

By fall 1981, Mr. Corbett, his own house overflowing with more than a score of
refugees, went to Mr. Fife and asked if the church would take in some of the
aliens.

Mr. Fife agreed and decided to declare that the church, by an overwhelming vote
of the congregation, had chosen to invoke the concept of religious sanctuary.

''The faith leads to an acute awareness of the need to care for those whose
lives hang in the balance,'' he said later in an interview. ''What we're doing
is simply what the faith compels us to do.''

On March 24, 1982, less than nine months after Mr. Corbett decided to form the
underground railroad, Southside Presbyterian and seven churches in California
that had earlier joined the movement announced publicly that they would help
transport and house Central Americans fleeing their homelands.

Initially, the Government's response was to ignore the churches' defiance.

In a pointed memorandum following the declaration, now a part of the court
record, Thomas Martin, a Border Patrol agent, wrote his superiors, ''A ploy is
going to be Border Patrol 'baiting' in order to demonstrate to the public that
the U.S. Government thinks nothing of breaking down the doors of their churches
to drag Jesus Christ out to be tortured and murdered.''

The memo suggested that ''all politcal implications should be considered before
any further action is taken toward this group.''

In a similar memorandum in January 1983, also in the court record, an
immigration service intelligence officer suggested that any damage to
immigration control caused by the sanctuary movement was minor compared to the
''merits of achieving martyrdom'' the movement would gain if its members were
arrested.

But by April 1984, the Government had decided to begin an undercover operation
in which two investigators of the immigration service's antismuggling unit in
Phoenix and three paid informers infiltrated the sanctuary movement posing as
sympathetic volunteers. Two of the informers had themselves been implicated in
transporting illegal alien farmworkers.

In the course of nine months, the Government obtained nearly 100 hours of tape
recordings, most of them made by the two informers using recorders hidden in
their clothing.

Mr. Fife, whose Southside Presbyterian Church was the primary site of the
tapings, said he was ''shocked'' and ''baffled'' by the Government's actions.

''We had been completely open and public about all our activities for three
years,'' he said. ''I realized their purpose was not to investigate, but to
intimidate the movement by spying within congregations.''

For its part, the Government, with ample precedent in law, has maintained that
the sanctity of the church does not extend to protection of illegal acts.

A. Melvin McDonald, the United States Attorney who signed the original
indictments in January, said in announcing them that ''merely because they wear
the garb of the clergy, they have no greater or no lesser rights than anyone
else.''

Donald M. Reno Jr., the assistant United States Attorney who is the lead
prosecutor in the case, also dismissed the suggestion that there were any
religious or political overtones to the prosecution.

''The Government is virtually blind as far as those factors are concerned,'' he
said. ''These are aliens to us. This is an alien smuggling conspiracy.''

Despite the Government's statements defending the tapings, it announced last
week that none of the 91 tape recordings made by the informers and agents would
be introduced as evidence. Defense lawyers expressed surprise.

Mr. Reno had earlier said that he would not call as a witness one of the
informers, Salomon Delgado Graham, who has served a prison term for transporting
illegal aliens. He became the subject of controversy after officials of the
United Farm Workers and an admitted prostitute filed affidavits saying that Mr.
Graham had brought prostitutes to the fields.

Mr. Graham, in an affidavit filed by Mr. Reno, denied the allegations, and the
presiding judge, Earl Carroll, barred any reference to the allegations in
testimony.

Judge Bans Some Testimony

The judge has also barred any testimony about possible religious motivation,
international law, United States foreign policy or conditions in Central
America.

The defendants say those decisons effectively cut the heart out of any defense
they might offer.

In another development, one of the defendants, Sister Darlene Nicgorski, said
her lawyer had told her that the prosecution had offered the defendants a deal
in which they could plead guilty to lesser charges in exchange for lenient
sentences.

''If we were willing to plead guilty to a misdemeanor, we would get six-month
suspended sentences and probation,'' she said. ''I did not accept that offer.''

''There were some efforts on the Government's part to coerce me into accepting
that,'' she said, ''because of the fact the Government particularly wanted John
Fife and me - that if we refused this plea offer, that we would get a
three-to-five-year sentence. 'Hard time' was I think the word used.''

Mr. Reno said in court that the defendants had been discussing confidential
negotiations, and he asked the judge to bar parties to the case from speaking to
reporters.

Judge Carroll denied the motion but said he would keep it under advisement.

Meanwhile, the sanctuary workers say they will continue to bring in and give
shelter to Central Americans.

Philip Willis-Conger, one of the defendants, said that ''there are even more
people that have come forward to assist people fleeing persecution'' and that
sanctuary members would continue assisting aliens ''regardless of what happens
during the trial or later.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of members of the sanctuary movement in Arizona (AP); photo of
the Rev. John Fife (NYT/Suzi Moore)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 29, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AIDES QUESTION SEAMAN WHO FLED

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28


A crewman aboard a Soviet freighter south of New Orleans was removed from the
ship tonight for an interview with State Department officials who are trying to
determine whether he wants asylum in the United States, the department said.

The interview came after three days of negotiations between American and Soviet
officials over the fate of the sailor, who jumped ship last week and was
returned by United States immigration officials.

The sailor, identified as Miroslav Medved, left the freighter tonight shortly
before 6 and was interviewed aboard a Coast Guard cutter by officials from the
State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, along with a
doctor.

Sailor Taken to Naval Facility

The State Department said the interview was ended tonight after Mr. Medved fell
ill and that he had been taken to a ''nearby facility'' to recover overnight.
The State Department would not specify the nature of the illness or disclose the
location of the facility. The Associated Press quoted an unidentified Coast
Guard spokesman as saying that the sailor had been taken to the Naval Support
Activity Center in Algiers, La.

According to the State Department, Soviet officials from the embassy in
Washington accompanied Mr. Medved to the facility for the overnight stay.

The department said the Soviet officials were aboard the cutter when Mr. Medved
was questioned, but American officials said the representatives did not observe
the interview. The department said the interview would resume Tuesday, after Mr.
Medved had an opportunity to ''rest thoroughly.''

The incident has distressed Reagan Administration officials who say the
immigration service made a hasty decision to return Mr. Medved to the ship over
his protests early Friday.

In two previous interviews, according to officials, Mr. Medved said he was not
seeking asylum in the United States. American diplomats have said they are
concerned that the sailor did not understand what was being asked of him in the
first interview with immigration officials, and that he was under duress during
a later discussion aboard the Soviet ship.

Mr. Medved leapt into the river from the moving freighter, the Marshal Konev,
Thursday night and was taken into custody by immigration officials who placed
him on a launch. Realizing he was being returned to Soviet custody, the sailor
jumped from the launch and swam to shore, officials said. Soviet guards got to
shore and carried Mr. Medved back.

Delay in Telling Washington

Duke Austin, an immigration service spokesman, defended the Border Patrol agents
who interviewed him, saying they may have acted properly.

Administration officials said, however, that the officers should have delayed
returning him to the ship until officials in Washington had reviewed the
situation. The State Department said it did not learn of the incident until
Friday afternoon.

Secretary of State George P. Schultz, said in Ottawa today that the handling of
the incident would not be influenced by the summit meeting next month between
President Reagan and the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev.

''We always make a point of doing what is right,'' Reuters quoted Mr. Shultz as
saying. ''We must do that without consideration of people saying, 'Oh, the
Soviets will get upset and you won't have a meeting.' That is nonsense.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN ORDERS INQUIRY INTO FORCING A SOVIET SEAMAN BACK TO SHIP

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31


President Reagan today ordered an investigation into the handling of a Soviet
sailor who was forced to return to his ship by Border Patrol agents near New
Orleans last week, according to Administration officials.

''The reaction at the White House has been outrage,'' a senior White House
official said.

A bipartisan group of Congressmen criticized the handling of the incident by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the State Department.

Word of Mr. Reagan's order to the Justice Department - which had already begun
an inquiry - came shortly after Irene Padoch, a Ukrainian-language interpreter
who initially interviewed the seaman, said she was convinced he wanted asylum.

''He told me he wanted to stay in an honest country,'' she said in an interview
today. ''The immigration officer asked if he wanted political asylum, and I
asked him, and he said yes. He told me he was very much afraid of what would
happen to him if he couldn't stay here in this country.''

Ship on Way Up River

The sailor, Miroslav Medved, who apparently changed his mind, was ultimately
returned again to his ship, the freighter Marshal Konev, at Belle Chasse, La.,
below New Orleans. The vessel is now on her way up the Mississippi to a grain
elevator at Reserve, La. She is to head back to the Soviet Union in two days.

Mrs. Padoch's statements contradicted accounts earlier this week by the
immigration service, which employs the Border Patrol agents who originally
returned Mr. Medved to the vessel Friday after he jumped ship.

On Monday, he was removed from the freighter by representatives of the State
Department. After he was interviewed, by a different interpreter, the department
said that it was convinced that he wanted to return to the Soviet Union, and he
was sent back to the ship. There were reports that he resisted as he went
aboard. The White House has made it clear that he is welcome to stay.

Mrs. Padoch, who works for the immigration service on a contractual basis, said
it was clear that Mr. Medved feared for his safety and did not want to return to
the Soviet Union.

Mishandling Is Conceded

The immigration service acknowledged today that its agents had mishandled the
incident. ''We think there could have been better judgment,'' said Duke Austin,
a spokesman for the agency. ''We don't think he should have been hastily
returned.''

At a news conference, Secretary of State George P. Shultz defended the State
Department's actions, saying Mr. Medved's response after the interviews early
this week ''was very clear that he wished to go home.''

The sailor jumped from the grain freighter into the Mississippi near New Orleans
Thursday night. Apprehended, he was interviewed by the immigration agents and
Mrs. Padoch, who participated by phone from her home in New York City. The
immigration agents then ordered the sailor returned over his protests.

The service said it had sworn statements from the two border agents that
conflicted with Mrs. Padoch's statements. Mr. Austin, the service spokesman,
said the agents thought Mr. Medved did not want to defect but did not want to
return to the ship either.

'Absolutely Clear,' She Says

The agents understood that Mrs. Padoch ''to say that he did not want asylum,''
Mr. Austin said. ''That moves him from the category of a defector to someone
who's jumped ship. We have that all the time.''

Mrs. Padoch said she had made it ''absolutely clear'' that Mr. Medved wanted to
defect. When originally asked if he wanted political asylum, ''he did not
understand very well,'' she said.

''Everybody in the United States, they know what political asylum is,'' she
said, ''but it was hard to understand for this boy, who was not well educated.''
She told of carefully phrasing a question. ''I asked him,'' she said, '' 'Do you
like to stay here? Are you asking for political asylum?' He immediately answered
yes.''

Mr. Austin said the confusion might have been caused by a poor telephone
connection or by Mrs. Padoch's ''broken English.''

''I could not understand why this has happened,'' Mrs. Padoch said. ''I was
angry when I learned what happened.'' She said one of the border agents assured
her ''that nothing would happen to the young sailor - I was absolutely convinced
that he would not be sent back.''

Shultz Rejects Suggestions

Mr. Shultz brushed aside charges from some conservative groups that Soviet
officials might have sent a sailor posing as Mr. Medved to the interviews with
State Department officials, or that he might have been drugged.

He said the immigration officials had Mr. Medved photographed. ''I don't think
there's any problem about identification,'' Mr. Shultz said. ''As far as the
problem of being drugged is concerned, of course when he became ill, we felt
that it was important to stop the process and allow him to sleep it off.''

On Capitol Hill, some lawmakers demanded that Mr. Medved be removed from the
Soviet ship and questioned again.

Senator Gordon J. Humphrey, Republican of New Hampshire, said of the immigration
service's handling of the incident, ''It's cowardly. It's shameful.''

Senator Alan Cranston, Democrat of California, called for a Senate review of the
Border Patrol's asylum procedures. ''It's not too late for us to prevent future
mishaps,'' he said in a written statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Irene Padoch (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 12, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

2 BORDER AGENTS FACE PUNISHMENT IN SAILOR EPISODE

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11


The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that
he expected disciplinary action to be taken against two Border Patrol agents who
forcibly returned a Soviet seaman to his ship last month.

''There obviously were mistakes made,'' the Commissioner, Alan C. Nelson, said
in an interview. , He said the agents erred in ''not following the guidelines''
after the sailor, Miroslav Medved, who is a Ukrainian, jumped from a freighter
into the Mississippi River near New Orleans.

Mr. Nelson said the agency had submitted a report to the Justice Department
detailing the mistakes made by the two agents, who have not been publicly
identified. The report, which runs to more than 100 pages, says that the agents
acted hastily and violated agency regulations by returning Mr. Medved to the
Soviet freighter without consulting their supervisors, according to Reagan
Administration officials.

Decision to Be Delayed

Mr. Nelson said he would delay a decision on how to discipline the agents until
after meeting this week with the agency's Southern regional director. ''I'm
expecting disciplinary action will be recommended,'' he said.

A Justice Department official who asked not to be identified said that
punishments for the two agents could range from letters of reprimand to
dismissal. The official said, ''We consider this a very, very serious mistake.''

The State Department arranged for the removal of the sailor from the ship and
interviewed him. In those discussions, the department said, Mr. Medved said
repeatedly that he wanted to go back to the Soviet Union. He was permitted to
reboard the ship, which left American waters over the weekend with him aboard.

The department had requested Mr. Nelson's report as part of an inquiry ordered
by Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d into the Medved episode. Department officials
said that the immigration report would be reviewed by Mr. Meese and D. Lowell
Jensen, the Deputy Attorney General.

In the interview, Mr. Nelson said that the incident had been an
''embarrassment'' to the immigration service and would lead to changes in
procedures used for dealing with potential defectors.

However, he said, ''We do think the existing procedures are fundamentally sound
and, if properly followed, would have avoided this.''

Returned Despite Protests

Over his protests, Mr. Medved was returned to the ship at about midnight Oct.
25, only a few hours after he had jumped from the grain freighter, the Marshal
Konev. According to Mr. Nelson, the agents ''should have retained Mr. Medved at
least overnight.''

Mr. Nelson would not discuss many details of the report provided to the Justice
Department, but he said that its conclusions were similar to those he voiced
last week in testimony before a Senate immigration panel.

Mr. Nelson said then that the border agents had violated immigration regulations
when they failed to inform their superiors immediately that Mr. Medved had
jumped ship. Under those regulations, Mr. Medved, because he was a Soviet
citizen, was entitled to special consideration before being returned to his
ship, Mr. Nelson said.

''These existing procedures were not followed,'' he testified. ''No supervisory
review of the decision to return the crewman was sought and neither the I.N.S.
central office nor the Department of State was informed.''

Stress on Procedures

''If that had been done,'' he added, ''we believe Mr. Medved would not have been
summarily returned to the shipping agent and hence to the Soviet vessel without
a thorough interview and determination of his intentions.''

A senior White Office official said he was not surprised that the internal
investigation was critical of the border agents. ''I think there was a lot of
ineptitude in the initial handling'' of Mr. Medved, he said.

But Edward Djerejian, a deputy White House press secretary, said he could not
comment on the initial investigation until President Reagan had received the
formal report from Attorney General Meese.

Mr. Nelson said today that the report contained copies of sworn statements from
the border agents and from a Ukrainian-speaking interpreter, Irene Padoch, who
participated in an interview with Mr. Medved shortly before he was ordered back
to the ship.

Mrs. Padoch has insisted that she told the agents that Mr. Medved was seeking
political asylum in the United States. The statements from the agents show that
they returned the sailor to the ship because they believed he did not want
asylum, according to the immigration service.

In the interview, Mr. Nelson said he believed that the procedures for dealing
with potential defectors ''are fundamentally sound'' but could be tightened.

The report prepared for the Justice Department found that Mr. Medved's case was
well handled after he was removed from the ship for additional interviews with
American officials, Mr. Nelson said.

''That was very well handled,'' he said. ''He was kept for 24 hours and given a
very thorough exam concerning his intentions. It was a very honest, fair
review.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Alan Nelson (AP)

TYPE: INTERVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 18, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Banished Guru, Back in India, Calls Americans 'Subhuman'

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Nov. 17


Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, banished from the United States for breaking immigration
laws, returned to India today and described his four years in America as
''hell'' and Americans as ''subhuman.''

''I shall never leave India again,'' the 53-year-old mystic told reporters in
New Delhi.

The guru left his commune in Pune, near the western port city of Bombay, four
years ago and went to the United States, saying he would seek medical treatment.
He set up a 64,000-acre commune in Oregon, where 5,000 disciples gathered.

At his news conference, the guru said of Americans, ''I don't consider them
human, they are subhuman.'' He added, ''The Soviet Union is far better than the
United States.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 21, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Myths About Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words


To the Editor:

As director of an organization that is often in the position of having to spike
myths about refugees in the United States, I would like to support the findings
of Leo Cherne of the International Rescue Committee, quoted at a New York City
conference (news article, Nov. 3), that most refugees to this country do not
displace Americans from scarce jobs. Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service
can confirm many instances in which refugees bring new energy and creativity
into the American marketplace.

Another myth often cited is that refugees from other countries are eager to come
to the United States for economic betterment. To the contrary, given a
preference, most people would rather live and work in their native country. It
is only when circumstances - generally political - force them to flee from their
homelands, often at risk to their lives, that people seek a safe and reasonable
living in another country.

The United States has a tradition of hospitality to refugees; it is a shame to
find increasingly grudging, though unwarranted, attitudes expressed by some.
(Rev.) DONALD H. LARSEN Director, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service New
York, Nov. 6, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 24, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MEMORIES WANTED FOR HISTORY OF ELLIS ISLAND

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 51, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 982 words


Along corridors that once echoed with the clamor of foreign tongues, only the
purr of fans drying damp plaster breaks the silence now. A tangle of aluminum
scaffolding hides the cavernous hall where millions of immigrants first
encountered America.

Although the renovation work now obscures much of Ellis Island, many Americans
who passed through there still see the island as it was when they arrived - its
turn-of-the-century brick buildings clogged with impoverished immigrants.

In an effort to preserve this vision of the island before 1924, when quotas
sharply curbed the number of foreigners allowed to enter the country, the
National Park Service has commissioned an oral-history project to document
immigrants' experiences.

The project's staff members plan to interview 200 former immigrants and
immigration officials across the country by next spring. People interviewed so
far have ranged in age from 67 to 102.

Tape recordings of the interviews, as well as transcripts and photographs, will
be available to visitors in the Oral History Room of the new Ellis Island
museum, which will be housed in a renovated immigration building. The museum is
scheduled to open to the public in 1987.

Clear Memories

Nancy Dallett, one of the oral historians for AKRF Inc., the consulting company
that won the contract for the project, said many of those interviewed were able
to recall events at Ellis Island more clearly than those that had just occurred.

''They might not remember their daughter's phone number,'' she said. ''But they
do remember what it was like when they got off of that boat.''

Miss Dallett urged anyone who worked on, or immigrated through, Ellis Island
before 1924, or knew someone who did, to write her at P.O. Box 20375, Greeley
Square Station, New York, N.Y. 10001.

Though each of the 12 million immigrants who came through Ellis Island from 1892
to 1954 left with a different impression, some experiences, the interviewers
found, were the same.

No more than 2 percent of all immigrants were rejected - because of health,
political or financial reasons -but the fear of being turned away was almost
universal, according to Felice Kudman, an official for the National Park
Service.

Often whole families were held on Ellis Island for days, even weeks, while one
member was placed under observation in the island's immense infirmary.

Waiting for 2 Sisters

Alexander Brown, who came to the United States from Rumania in 1922, recalled in
an interview for the project how his family waited on Ellis Island while his two
sisters were held in the infirmary, one because she ''was as bald as a cue
ball,'' the other because of a heart murmur.

''There was an immediate fear,'' Mr. Brown told the interviewers. ''On the
slightest type of problem that they would discover, they had no reservations
about sending you back.''

To process endless lines of immigrants - during the peak immigration years from
1900 to 1924 there were about 5,000 a day - doctors on Ellis Island learned to
make quick decisions.

From above, they watched the immigrants mount the stairs to the examining rooms;
those who showed signs of lameness or other handicaps were marked with chalk and
pulled aside for further examination.

Sometimes it was not physical, but psychological factors that barred prospective
immigrants, according to Robert Leslie, a 99-year-old doctor who worked on Ellis
Island from 1912 to 1914.

''I would ask definite questions of these people, and through these questions I
would evaluate their whole idea of life,'' he said.

His questions, Dr. Leslie said, included, ''Did you get married just to come to
the United States?'' and ''Do you have any dfficulties with your wife?'' Those
whom he rejected, he said, were ''people who I felt would not make good
citizens.''

Katznelson Became Nelson

Fearful that even a long or unpronounceable name would be enough to hold them
back, many immigrants ''decided right then and there to change their names,''
Miss Dallett said.

Many adopted names they knew to be common in America, she said, and others
fashioned new names by lopping a few syllables off old ones.

''Before even they asked me, I decided that I will change my name because
Katznelson was too cumbersome,'' said Samuel Nelson, who emigrated from Russia
in 1905.

Language barriers often led to inadvertent name changes and also magnified the
terrors of the immigration process.

Occasionally, though, misunderstandings led to peculiarly felicitous mistakes.

A recent visitor to Ellis Island told Felice Kudman of the National Park Service
that, when he arrived in America, he presented immigration officials with the
address of a relative on Houston Street on the Lower East Side.

The next thing he knew, he said, he was seated on a train bound for Houston,
Tex. ''Seeing New York, he said, he was very glad they had sent him to
Houston,'' Miss Kudman said.

Though many remember their stay at Ellis Island as a form of incarceration, the
experience had its novelties. Immigrants recall chomping on their first piece of
chewing gum or eating their first banana, often with the peel still on, while at
the island.

Gravy 'Like Shoe Polish'

''I had my first taste of beef,'' Peggy Dell, who emigrated from Hungary in
1921, told the historians. ''I can still remember how rank that tasted. And the
dark gravy, I thought, 'This tastes like shoe polish.' ''

Immigrants invariably arrived at Ellis Island in straitened circumstances,
exhausted from the long voyage in tight quarters. Yet even the most miserable
remember sighting the Statue of Liberty, which stands just to the south of Ellis
Island in the harbor.

Seymour Rexsite, who came from Poland in 1920, recalls his first view of Miss
Liberty as ''very, very overwhelming.''

''We saw it through the mist of the rain,'' he said. But ''everybody was on
deck, no matter.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the new Ellis Island museum; Photos of the period when
thousands of immigrants passed through the building

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 24, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FEARS OF BEING SENT BACK

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 51, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 399 words


No matter how risky the trip over, many immigrants landed on Ellis Island
convinced that the worst dangers still awaited them. Aaron Cheifetz, a
93-year-old musician and former shopkeeper in New York City, recounted to oral
historians his arrival in America and his fears of being turned away by
immigration officials. Mr. Cheifetz, who came in the fall of 1913 from what is
now the Soviet Union, paid $50 for the passage from his native town of Mogilev.
The trip required slipping across the Polish-Austrian border. Here is some of
what Mr. Cheifetz said:

When I was about 20, I had to go to the army. They checked me, checked my
health, checked everything, and they accepted me, but the only thing they asked
me, I have to get certain papers in a different city. I says, ''I got plenty
papers and I don't think I have to get it.'' [The commander] says, ''Get out and
go ahead and do it.'' He insulted me. So I decided now to go to the United
States.

Late in November I started for my journey to the United States. I went first to
Lublin, to Poland. And I had to penetrate the border from Poland to Austria.
Then they took me over to Hamburg, then with a big ship to Liverpool. And then
from Liverpool we went on a steamship by name Cedrik.

The first day on the ship was fine. After, it started to go bad, I started to
get dizzy. I was pretty sick for five days. Finally, on the last day, I went up
on the deck and everything was fine. And then we saw the Statue of Liberty.
Everbody was very happy to see it.

Then we came to Ellis Island. We went into the house and started by soldiers. I
was waiting quite some time. Finally they called my name. They says: ''You go
over to the doctor. They'll examine you.'' So I got scared - one thing bothered
me. At that time you had to show $25 before you were released, before you go
into the United States. And I didn't have enough. I had about $22. And that
bothers me terrible. I thought, ''They're going to send me back.''

So, I went to the doctor. After he examined me, he says, ''Sit down.'' I saw
some people they rejected, bad eyes, you see. Then they said, ''What are you
waiting, go downstairs.'' I go downstairs, there's inspectors along a big line.
It came to my name. I says, ''I haven't got enough money.'' So the guy says,
''Go ahead!'' They wouldn't even count. I was very happy. So that's the way I
came in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 29, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SOVIET IMMIGRANTS' JEWISH INDENTITY IS STUDIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 648 words


Most Soviet Jewish immigrants in New York City have been in the United States
five years or more, are becoming American citizens, live in apartments in
Brooklyn or Queens with or near their parents or in-laws, are 30 to 50 years old
and have one child.

This is a partial profile that emerges from a recent study by the Federation of
Jewish Philanthropies. It is based, in part, on interviews with 233 immigrant
families in the spring and early summer of 1984.

Federation officials began the research because of concern by American Jews that
Communism had destroyed Judaism in the Soviet Union and that the Soviet Jewish
immigrants here did not identify as Jews.

But the major conclusion of the study was that ''Soviet Jewish immigrants
possess a strong and positive Jewish identity and wish to participate with their
children in American Jewish life.''

The study's goal is to develop a comprehensive strategy to encourage Jewish
identification and affiliation among the almost 50,000 Soviet Jewish immigrants
in New York City.

The study found that two-thirds of those interviewed had adequate or better
competence in English, were employed and had household incomes of $15,000 or
more. The study noted that income was consistently under-reported by the
immigrants.

High Level of Education

Most of the emigres are from large cities in the western republics of the Soviet
Union and have attained a high level of education. Sixty percent have the
equivalant of a bachelor's degree and 66 percent have worked in the Soviet Union
as engineers, scientists, artists and in other status occupations, according to
the study.

About 70 percent have some knowledge of Yiddish, even though there are no formal
courses of Yiddish study in the Soviet Union.

A Russian-speaking urban anthropologist, Fran Baskin, acted as study director.

The report was presented by Dr. Seymour P. Lachman, chairman of the federation's
subcommittee on services to new Jewish immigrants, at the general assembly of
the Council of Jewish Federations in Washington on Nov. 15. The council
represents more than 200 Jewish philanthropic organizations in the United States
and Canada.

Dr. Lachman, university dean of the City University of New York, is a former
chairman of the Coalition to Free Soviet Jews.

Personal interviews, which lasted an hour and a half in the immigrants' homes,
dealt with their feelings about Judaism, their impressions of Jewish places and
programs and their expressed Jewish interests and needs.

Specific Findings

The Federation also conducted intensive discussions with representatives of 19
agencies in the city that provide a range of services to the immigrants.

The study found that in identifying strongly as Jews, 87 percent profess a tie
with Israel, and about 25 percent relate to Judaism in a religious context.

Between 85 percent and 95 percent show a favorable attitude toward Jewish
symbols, such as a synagogue, but seeing a Hasidic Jew drew favorable responses
from only 33 percent because the image of the Hasidic Jews is used in
anti-Semitic propaganda in the Soviet Union.

The study also revealed that 91 percent said they felt more Jewish when
confronted with anti-Semitism.

The study also found that the immigrants were unaccustomed to making Jewishness
public and did not have a tradition of joining organizations but indicated a
desire to be involved with the broader Jewish community.

They also have a strong commitment to their children being Jewish, with 84
percent preferring that their children marry other Jews.

In feedback discussions of the first draft, the immigrants and a group of agency
representatives agreed with the recommendations.

These recommendations include educating the immigrants about the American Jewish
community and addressing their stated needs, including programs focusing on
Jewish history and culture and Israel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 15, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE US ACCEPTS TOO MANY REFUGEES

BYLINE: By Richard D. Lamm; Richard D. Lamm, Governor of Colorado, is co-author,
with Gary Imhoff, of ''The Immigration Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America.''

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: DENVER


America's golden door has always been open to refugees. The widespread interest
in the ultimately unsuccessful effort of the Ukrainian seaman Miroslav Medved to
defect to the United States shows how eager Americans are to offer sanctuary.

But have we thought through the implications of this policy in a crowded,
unstable world? One refugee is a symbol; a million refugees (we have taken in
800,000 from Southeast Asia alone in the last decade) constitute a major
demographic event.

In a world already awash with refugees, some potential hot spots demand
attention. The Government of the Philippines could be violently overthrown.
Possibilities for a peaceful solution in South Africa seem small. The residents
of Hong Kong face major changes as it reverts to Chinese rule. In the name of
human rights, we demand that two million to three million Soviet Jews be allowed
to emigrate. Already 10 percent of El Salvador lives in the United States.

When revolution sounds a government's death knell, the bell also tolls for us.
In keeping with our tradition as a haven for the oppressed, we have Richard D.
Lamm, Governor of Colorado, is co-author, with Gary Imhoff, of ''The Immigration
Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America.'' taken in more refugees for
resettle-ment than all other nations com- bined, while also absorbing an influx
of new immigrants in the past two decades under our normal procedures.

This year, we will accept 76,000 new refugees, 270,000 immigrants under
established national quotas and 190,000 immediate relatives of American
citizens. At times of crisis - the exodus from Mariel, Cuba, and the fall of
Indochinese governments -we have admitted many more. With no new calamity yet
upon us, now is a good time to reassess the choices we want to make on our
immigration policy.

Under our system of accepting refugees, applicants must establish that they are
currently being persecuted or would be subject to persecution if they returned
to their homelands. They then are processed under six priorities: those in
immediate danger of losing their lives, or have no alternative to resettlement
here, or for whom there is a compelling national concern; former employees of
the United States Government; family reunification (even reunification with
grandparents can establish an anchor); other specified ties to the United
States; family reunification with still-more-distant relatives; and other
admissions in the national interest.

Take the Philippines as an example. An overthrow of the Government by Marxist
revolutionaries could result in pressure for us to admit a large number of new
refugees. Former Marcos associates would flee. The embassy in Manila is our
largest in the world and Filipino employees working there outnumber Americans 3
to 1. Many of the 56 million Filipinos could claim family reunification and
''other ties.'' After Mariel, can we discount ''boat lifts'' from the
Philippines's harbors?

Isn't it time that we ask ourselves whether the United States is running its
refugee policy or it is running us? We must decide how many people we can absorb
into our economy and assimilate into our culture. Congress should set a cap on
the number of new immigrants we will accept in future years from all categories
- immediate relatives, quota immigrants and refugees. I suggest that we hold the
line at the 527,000 we are accepting this year. Increases in refugee admissions
will need to be offset by fewer immigrants under our normal procedures.

However, in order to avoid crowding out too many of the immigrants who now come
to us under established national quotas, we should simultaneously narrow the
refugee criteria to include only persons who clearly face imprisonment or
execution if required to return home, and their spouses and minor children. It's
tragic that people have to live under totalitarian regimes, but we simply do not
have the capacity to accept new large infusions of refugees for resettlement on
top of our regular immigrant quota.

While it is impossible to predict where or when, the future is soon going to
present us with painful choices that will challenge our historic traditions. Yet
for our children's sake, we must ask, ''How much compassion can we afford?'' At
some point, our compassion to share what we have will destroy what we have.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 5, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE FLOW HAS SLOWED FROM THE OLD COUNTRY

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 932 words


The Russians are not coming to the United States much anymore. The last wave
from the Soviet Union peaked in 1979, when nearly 29,000 immigrants, most of
them Jewish, arrived. But the wave has become a trickle, with fewer than 600
Russians entering last year.

So the news that the Soviet Union had agreed to allow several citizens with
American relatives to emigrate to the United States was received with guarded
optimism by Russian-American immigration groups. The first two Russians - women
who were reunited with their husbands after long separations - arrived last
week.

''We're always pleased to see the Soviet authorities let some citizens enjoy the
basic human right of rejoining their families,'' says Karl D. Zukerman,
executive director of HIAS, the international Jewish immigration agency. ''But
we believe there are hundreds of thousands more who would request to leave if
given a positive sign.''

According to the Census Bureau, 2,781,432 people in the United States -
including ethnic Russians, Jews, Ukrainians and those from the non-Russian
republics of the Soviet Union - identify themselves as Russian by birth or
descent.

Generally there have been three waves of Russian migrants to this country: the
aristocrats, army officers and professionals who fled after the 1917 Bolshevik
Revolution and the ensuing Civil War; the refugees displaced by World War II,
many of them prisoners of war in Germany who chose to remain in the West, and,
in the early 1970's, a number of Russian Jews and Armenians, dissidents, artists
and intellectuals.

Each wave seems to have followed a pattern. The newcomers settle in urban
neighborhoods, much as recent emigres have done in Brooklyn's Brighton Beach,
later scattering to the suburbs and small towns across the country, resettlement
authorities say. Many Russians work at low-level jobs first, then go into more
skilled professions, the arts or into business for themselves.

''Now they're moving into the mainstream, settling in Rego Park and Forest
Hills, going into the professions and computer programming,'' says Mark
Handelman, executive director of the New York Association for New Americans, the
main resettlement agency in the metropolitan area, of the people who came in the
1970's.

One institution that has done much to resettle Russian immigrants is the Tolstoy
Foundation, established in 1939 by the daughter of Leo Tolstoy. In Europe, the
foundation assists refugees with the difficult paperwork required to get into
the United States. In this country, it meets refugees at airports, locates
housing, provides one month's rent and security if needed, arranges for English
language training and helps the new arrivals find jobs.

But most resettlement agencies do not formally provide loans to start immigrants
out in business or education. This is generally done on an informal basis, with
neighbors lending one other money at little or no interest, Mr. Handelman said.
Last year, however, some Russian immigrants took the first steps to set up a
credit union in Brooklyn with the help of the New York Metropolitan Coordinating
Council Against Jewish Poverty.

Many skilled people have to take any job at first, while others change
professions. Mr. Handelman notes that Russian doctors who have had trouble
finding hospital residencies are being retrained in health professions such as
physical therapy.

Lyudmila Grober, a 47-year-old electrical engineer from Lvov who graduated from
Moscow's prestigious Power and Energy Institute, took a clerical-training course
through the New York Association for New Americans and got a job in a baby-wear
company.

Alla Zhitomirskaya, 25, an artist's model from Odessa, arrived here two years
ago with her parents and her 4-year-old son. She took a six-month course in
jewelry making and got a job immediately.

Alla Golburt, a Leningrad piano teacher, arrived two years ago, alone and with
no means of support. She took English classes and then entered an intensive
course in computer programming because she heard there were jobs in this field
and ''there is logic in both computers and music.''

'Generation of Writers'

Suzanne Massie, an author and expert on Russian culture, said she recently
counted in the New York area alone 100 painters with Russian backgrounds as well
as a large number of musicians and dancers and ''a whole generation of
writers.''

Each wave of immigrants has founded religious, cultural and social
organizations, from the Russian Scout Movement to the Russian Nobility
Association. Although they have been slow to organize politically, the Congress
of Russian Americans, founded in 1974 in Nyack, N.Y., has represented the
political interests of Russian Americans. The group's president, Edmund V.
Pribitkin, says there are plans to open a Russian-American Information Center in
Washington in March.

Many of the organizations of Russian Americans are concerned with the
preservation of heritage and traditions.

''The newcomers have brought increased interest in preserving Russian culture,''
says the Right Rev. Anthony Grabbe, principal and founder of Manhattan's
quarter-century-old St. Sergius High School, which says it offers the most
comprehensive Russian program outside the Soviet Union.

Arcadi Nebolsine, president of the Society for the Preservationof Russian
Monuments and Culture, saids uch preservation is important. ''We feel we are
guardians of the repository of Russian memoirs, family traditions and lore,''
Mr. Nebolsine said, '' because so much of our heritage has been destroyed and
lost in the 20th century.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Tony Bartholomew with his wife, Tatyana Bondareva (UPI)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 20, 1986, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ORGANIZATIONS THAT AIDED IMMIGRANT JEWS RECALLED IN EXHIBIT

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 836 words


For the Jewish immigrants who came to America in the late 19th and early 20th
centuries, America was a land of heartache as well as hope.

However squalid and imperiled life was in the old country, it was at least
familiar. People looked and spoke and laughed in congenial ways. In the new
country, the separation from family and hometown was made all the more painful
by the strangeness of life and by the loneliness.

The more resourceful immigrants, however, found a way to soften the pangs of
crossing over by transplanting something of their communities here in the form
of landsmanshaftn, organizations of people from the same hometowns. At their
height there were perhaps 5,000 such societies, dispensing charity, jobs and
cemetery plots as well as friendship and memories. About 1,200 survive today.
Tonight, a compact exhibit of photographs and artifacts about the landsmanshaftn
will open at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, in a former Vanderbilt
mansion at 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street. Titled ''Hello Landsman: A History
of New York's Jewish Mutual Aid Societies, 1880-1950,'' it was culled from a
collection of thousands of documents, books, banners, letters, buttons that YIVO
gathered from 800 societies between 1979 and 1981 under a grant from the
National Archives.

The exhibit can be seen weekdays from 9:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. through the end of
June.

'A Very Universal Need'

While there had been a few such societies earlier, the landsmanshaftn emerged in
profusion during the wave of Jewish immigration to the United States between
1880 and 1924. People from the same town who settled on the Lower East Side
spontaneously banded together to help a freshly arrived immigrant find a job, or
to tide a family over the death of a breadwinner, or to start a synagogue where
they could pray together.

''It's a very universal need to seek out familiar accents and persons and
memories and shared experiences of being a newcomer and to cluster together,''
said Jenna Weissman Joselit, the exhibit's curator. ''Being in the company of
people who knew your parents, your school, your town, all this seemed to cushion
the transition from one culture to another.''

Members of the landsmanshaftn may have been humble folk, but the organizations
bore such formidable names as the Odessa Young Men of Harlem Sickness and
Benevolent Society and the Progressive Samborer Young Men's Benevolent
Association.

Concerned that factionalism could produce splinter groups and imitators, some
added the words ''First'' and ''Independent'' to their names, as in the First
Bolshowcer Sickness and Benevolent Association. While membership in the earliest
clubs was confined to men, women attended functions and many societies had
women's auxiliaries.

Searching out American styles, some societies used secret passwords and
handshakes and flamboyant regalia for their leaders.

''When entering a meeting,'' said one society's rulebook displayed in the
exhibit, ''you must greet the president and vice president with your right hand
on your left breast.''

''In many respects,'' Mrs. Joselit said, ''they patterned themselves after the
Knight of Pythias or the Masons. How did immigrants who didn't go north of 14th
Street know of the Knights of Pythias, I don't know.''

In the early years, much time was spent reminiscing about the golden days back
home, a romanticized vision that, Mrs. Joselit says, often led immigrants to
forget the terrible conditions that prodded them to come to America.

Once a year, the societies held balls at midtown hotels or Lower East Side
ballrooms like the Central Plaza on Second Avenue. During and between both World
Wars, these were often held to raise money for struggling townspeople back in
Europe.

With the destruction of the Eastern European Jewish communities during World War
II, the societies devoted themselves to compiling yizker-bikher, memorial books
that contained memoirs and stories about life in the old towns.

The war's end, Mrs. Joselit said, also gave the dying societies a new lease on
life because they could incorporate the war refugees as new members. But
sometimes the chasm between the refugees and the Americanized second-generation
immigrants was so great that many newcomers went on to form societies of their
own.

As the original members died out and their children showed no interest in
joining, societies closed down, selling off the unused burial land.

The Minsker Young Friends Benevolent Association, at 101 West 31st Street, has
85 members left, and they spend much of their weekly meetings discussing
arrangements for their burial plots.

Abraham Zorfass, 71 years old, a second-generation American who joined the
Minsker society because his immigrant father urged him to do so and is now its
financial secretary, asked his own children to join.

''They didn't say yes, and they didn't say no,'' he said. ''Other members got
the same response. The children feel there is no need for this kind of
organization anymore.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Jenna Weissman Joselit (NYT/Dan Hogan Charles)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 31, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration of the Fittest

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 283 words


There's a better way to decide who gets to be an American, contends Julian
Simon, who teaches business administration at the University of Maryland. He
gave it in an Op-Ed article the other day. Fighting to transcend the present
''narrow range of tired options,'' he proposes something more radical: auction
off immigrant visas to those who would pay the most for them.

The idea is provocative. The defect is not that it lacks daring but that it
lacks imagination. Why stop at money?

By all means, let the nation auction off the right to be an American. But the
currency used for bidding should not be limited to cash, which would favor the
wealthy. For every one of those yacht people, there must be two, or 20,
desperate boat people. Why not let them bid in their currency, like the number
of nights spent without food or water in an open boat on the open sea? Such bids
would tell something about one wealth versus another, linen suits versus iron
determination, flight capital versus flight for life.

Mr. Simon might also consider some other kinds of currency, like the number of
days the bidder has spent in totalitarian prisons . . . or the number of years
spent waiting to join relatives already in this country . . . or the length of
time spent as an engineer. As it stands, the Simon proposal, while simple, would
demolish the preference that the system now gives to refugees, relatives and
highly skilled workers. These preferences are intended precisely to reward
values that the United States has always regarded more highly than money.

I lift my lamp beside the golden door, it says on the Lady in the harbor. The
emphasis has never been on how much gold but how much door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 2, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AWAY, HUDDLED MASSES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 94 words


To the Editor:

It is a fine and noble vision Julian L. Simon has for our nation's immigration
policy (''Auction the Right to Be an Immigrant,'' Op-Ed, Jan. 28). If we hurry,
perhaps we can adjust the Statue of Liberty in time for its centennial to put it
in tune with our new ideals:

Give me your tycoons, your professionals, Your select few yearning to pay fees.

Your wretched I'll refuse passage to my shore.

Send me the tried and tested bourgeoisie; Just send your bids before you knock
at my Golden Door.

ARTHUR SANDMAN

Brooklyn, Jan. 28, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 4, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AIDS TEST FOR IMMIGRANTS SOUGHT

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3


The Department of Health and Human Services plans to propose regulations that
would require people seeking to immigrate to the United States to be screened
for exposure to the AIDS virus.

Charles Kline, a spokesman for the department, said the proposed regulations had
been approved by the department's Secretary, Dr. Otis R. Bowen, and sent for
review to the Office of Management and Budget.

Mr. Kline said the proposed regulations would add acquired immune deficiency
syndrome to the list of diseases that are grounds for exclusion of people
seeking immigrant visas.

Other such diseases include syphilis, gonorrhea, tuberculosis and various mental
disorders. Mr. Kline said the AIDS screening requirement would not apply to
those seeking tourist, student and other forms of temporary visas.

He said the AIDS screening would be done through the system already in place for
medical screening. The screening, he said, would take place in the countries
from which immigrants are applying and applicants would bear the costs.

Under immigration laws, people wishing to become United States citizens
generally must first obtain immigrant visas and then become permanent residents.
After five years as permanent residents, they are eligible to apply for
citizenship.

Legal immigration to the United States has averaged 566,600 people annually over
the last five years, but more than 1.5 million people are estimated to be
entering the United States illegally each year.

AIDS, which destroys the body's ability to fight off infection, is thought to be
transmitted through bodily fluids by sexual contact, blood transfusion or other
means.

Blood tests are now available to detect exposure to the virus known as HTLV 3
that experts believe causes AIDS.

The tests do not establish that a person has ever had AIDS or would develop it,
but the tests detect the presence of antibodies that the body's immune system
has produced to combat the virus. Those who register positive on two different
kinds of antibody test are deemed to be infected with the virus and to be at
some risk of contracting the disease.

Officials of the Health and Human Services Department declined to discuss the
proposed regulations in detail, saying that they would be published for a 60-day
period to allow comment after the budget office review.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 26, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. COMPUTER SECURITY VIEWED AS INADEQUATE

BYLINE: By DAVID BURNHAM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25


Night after night, Tyson Jolliffe, the Federal official in charge of computer
security at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, sat at the kitchen table
in his home in Leesburg, Va., tapping at his small computer.

Mr. Jolliffe was not just another computer enthusiast. Instead, Government
investigators now know that he was using his agency's computer in Washington to
generate fraudulent immigration documents, which he then sold to illegal
immigrants. They estimate that he and his confederates earned at least $800,000
before they were caught and sent to prison.

The Jolliffe case illustrates the central conclusion of two new Government
studies: the Federal Government's computers are open to manipulation and fraud
and the experts working for Federal agencies may be the most serious threat.

In a study to be made public Wednesday at a hearing of the Senate Governmental
Affairs Committee, the Office of Technology Assessment concludes there was
widespread evidence that the effort for ''appropriate information systems
security measures'' has been ineffective.

'New Levels of Risk'

The technology office, a research arm of Congress, says the failure of
Government planners and the rapid growth of computerized information means
Federal agencies now faced ''fundamentally new levels of risk.''

The study adds that although a great deal of attention has been focused on
outside computer experts, security officials ''are nearly unanimous in their
view that the more significant security problem is abuse of information systems
by those authorized to use them.''

A similar judgment was voiced in the first annual report of the the National
Telecommunications and Information Security Committee, a special Government-wide
organization created two years ago. In a public version of the report, the
committee said the protection given to both secret and sensitive information was
''unsatisfactory'' and that the overall security situation was ''poor and
rapidly getting worse.''

The committee's report said the majority of crimes against Government computers
were committed by Government employees.

Number of Computers Rises

The situation is viewed as particularly serious because of rapid growth. In the
last few years, for example, the number of big computers has more than doubled,
from 11,000 in 1980 to 27,000 in 1985. In the same period, the number terminals
hooked into these computers has more than quadrupled and the number of small
computers has grown from a few thousand to at least 100,000.

Walter P. Connery, the director of the Office of Professional Responsibility in
the immigration service, described how Mr. Jolliffe and several allies had
produced and sold fraudulent permament alien resident documents to illegal
immigrants.

''There is a failure in our system that is very common throughout Government: it
has no audit trail,'' said Mr. Connery, a former deputy inspector of the New
York Police Department.

He said that while changes had been made after the accidental discovery of Mr.
Jolliffe's scheme ''the jury is out whether the system actually is any more
secure.''

Program Found Numbers

According to the investigator, the essential element in the fraud was the
ability to find alien resident numbers that had not been assigned to someone.
Mr. Connery said that Mr. Jolliffe, using his home computer, wrote a program
that ordered the Government computer to search the files for unused numbers.
These were sent to the agency's production facility in Texas.

Mr. Connery said that in the last three years his office investigated more than
100 document fraud cases that resulted in the conviction of 17 people, four of
whom used the agency's computer as part of their schemes.

After a trial last summer in Federal Court in the District of Columbia, Mr.
Jolliffe was sentenced to five years in prison.

According to a survey by the Office of Technology Assessment, 13 major Federal
departments and 20 independent agencies last year spent $33.5 million for
security projects for computers and communication devices, four times what they
spent in 1980.

The overall conclusion of the office was particularly pessimistic.

Many Do Not Screen Personnel

A survey conducted by the office found that a quarter of the agencies handling
sensitive but not secret information did not screen the background of people
with access to the computer systems, about half did not have restrictions on the
ability to get into the system by dialing a number and that three-quarters of
the agencies had no security policy for small computers.

Senator Bill Cohen, Republican of Maine, chairman of Governmental Affairs
Oversight Subcommittee, said he was concerned by the finding that 40 percent of
the agencies had not conducted vulnerability tests and that 60 percent did not
have contingency plans in the event their systems were disabled.

The annual report of the Federal Government's National Telecommunications and
Information Committee was completed last September. But a public version of the
report has been circulating among Federal agencies only in the last few weeks.

The report said ''the vulernability of Government information to unauthorized
access is widespread'' and concluded that the Government's efforts to provide
adequate security were ''unsatisfactory.''

The report said that the threat went well beyond Government information and
''sensitive private sector information, the loss of which could adversely affect
the national interest.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 2, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

12 NATURALIZED CITIZENS TO GET MEDAL OF LIBERTY

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 744 words


Twelve prominent Americans, 11 men and 1 woman, all of whom rose from immigrant
beginnings, were selected yesterday as the first recipients of the Medal of
Liberty, to be presented at the Statue of Liberty centennial celebration this
summer.

The winners were announced by Lee A. Iacocca, chairman of the Statue of
Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation and of the Chrysler Corporation. ''We think
they're a distinguished group,'' he said at a news conference in the Hunt Room
of the ''21'' Club. ''They came to the land of opportunity and made it big.''

The winners included Irving Berlin, the composer, from Russia; Dr. Kenneth B.
Clark, the psychologist, from Jamaica; Franklin R. Chang-Diaz, the astronaut,
from Costa Rica; Hannah Holborn Gray, president of the University of Chicago and
former acting president of Yale University; Bob Hope, the entertainer, from
England, and Henry A. Kissinger, the former Secretary of State, from Germany.

Also named were I. M. Pei, the architect, from China; Itzhak Perlman, the
violinist, from Israel; James B. Reston, the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist
and New York Times columnist; Dr. Albert B. Sabin, the physician who developed
the oral polio vaccine, from the Soviet Union; Dr. An Wang, the founder and
chairman of the board of Wang Labs Inc., from China, and Elie Wiesel, the author
and chronicler of the Holocaust, from Rumania.

Unanimous Choices

The winners were the unanimous choices of a 24-member panel headed by Mr.
Iacocca. The winners, he said, ''represent the beauty and hard work, the
sacrifice, the perseverance of all our parents and grandparents, all 17 million
of them.''

The winners were notified by telephone and telegram yesterday.

''I feel honored - a little bit taken aback, but grateful,'' Mr. Wiesel said.
''This is one of those honors that makes you think what you could do for a
country that has given you haven and what you can do for other people.''

Dr. Clark remembered the year 1919, when he and his younger sister and his
mother emigrated to this country from Panama and came through Ellis Island on
their way to Harlem. He was 5 years old.

President Reagan will present the first 12 awards on July 3 at opening
ceremonies of Liberty Weekend aboard the aircraft carrier U.S.S. John F. Kennedy
in New York Harbor.

The names of the winners, and of future winners, will be inscribed on a plaque
at Ellis Island. #37 Finalists The winners, all of them naturalized citizens,
came from a list of 200 men and women that was developed by a research team,
with additional names added by the selection committee. There were 37 finalists.
In response to reporters' questions about why there were no ''common people'' on
the list, Dr. Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian and a member of the
selection panel, said, ''Nearly all these people arrived in this country
unknown, penniless and obscure.''

Reporters also asked why there were not more women among the winners. Barbara
Walters, one of three women on the selection committee, responded. ''We tried to
have people who would be inspirational and who would represent their fields,''
she said. ''Most were not in their 20's. There were more men than women because
opportunities were not there for women. We're sure the next time the award is
given we will see more women.''

Miss Walters said there were many ''superb women'' on the list.

Following are the members of the Medal of Liberty Selection Committee: Mr.
Iacocca. David L. Wolper, chairman of Liberty Weekend. Mayor Henry G. Cisneros
of San Antonio. Governor Cuomo of New York. Murray Gell-Mann, scientist. Alex
Haley, author. Barbara Jordan, professor, University of Texas. Governor Kean of
New Jersey. Representative Jack F. Kemp of New York. Senator Edward M. Kennedy
of Massachusetts. Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, former United Nations Ambassador.

William F. May, president of the Statue of Liberty-

Ellis Island Foundation.

Emil Mosbacher, Jr., chairman of Operation Sail

'86.

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the United States

Immigration and Naturalization Service. Isamu Noguchi, artist. Representative
Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey. Dr. Schlesinger. Franklin A. Thomas,
president of the Ford Foundation. Grant A. Tinker, chairman of the National
Broadcasting Company. Peter V. Ueberroth, commissioner of major league baseball.
Mike Wallace, television journalist. Miss Walters. Senator John W. Warner of
Virginia. Theodore H. White, author.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 3, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition


;
A Salute To Immigrants

SECTION: Section 11LI; Page 18, Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 466 words


Both articles dealing with immigrants on the Feb. 3 Opinion Page allowed me the
opportunity of reminiscing about my struggling, yet challenging, days in 1961 as
a recently arrived non-English-speaking immigrant. In reading the articles
entitled ''New Americans: Making the Most of Opportunity'' and ''New Americans:
Not So Different,'' my thoughts turned to February 1970, when I first started
teaching in Flushing, Queens, the community mentioned in the article.

Flushing continues to be such an exciting polyglot community, whose residents
were of such exotic nationalities, that during the years while I was teaching, I
felt often as if I were facing a classroom full of children of United Nations
delegates. By virtue of my being a foreign-languages teacher, the international
atmosphere in Flushing proved to be significant in demonstrating the importance
of the study of foreign languages in our ever- shrinking world.

Many, many years have passed since I first saw the Statue of Liberty upon my
arrival in New York, but to this day I can't help but feel a sense of admiration
for any immigrant who, even while unable to speak English, manages through
honest hard work to make a better life for his family.

It is my hope that when the Statue of Liberty is rededicated by President Reagan
and Lee Iacocca after its refurbishing, it be dedicated in honor of all of this
nation's past immigrants, with special emphasis on our 20th-century immigrants.
This century's immigrants are living proof that our country is still the land of
opportunity where anyone can succeed through a commitment to hard work and a
discipline of delayed gratification.

What has been an attracting force, and certainly deserving of preservation, has
been our continued commitment to the principles of freedom to worship and
freedom of speech, principles often taken for granted by native Americans, but
that become sacred to former immigrants. It is gratifying to know that our
system of democracy is working well as demonstrated by the hundreds of thousands
wishing to emigrate to a country that allows them such precious civil liberties
and exciting opportunities.

While I can't speak for anyone but myself, I am confident that millions of
former immigrants would share my feelings of deep gratitude and loyalty to this
nation and its people who have welcomed us, educated us and provided us with
opportunities and freedoms not available anywhere else.

It would certainly be an honor for any former immigrant to be present at the
rededication of our Statue of Liberty, and, in this nation started by
immigrants, I can't think of a more fitting tribute than to have the ceremony at
the Statue of Liberty in honor, that day, of Immigrant Recognition Day.

 SHELLEY LOTENBERG South Westbury


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 17, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Immigrants And Changing Times

SECTION: Section 11LI; Page 21, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 317 words


It is difficult to avoid applauding the warmth of William Powers's essay ''New
Americans: Making the Most of Opportunity'' (Opinion Page, Feb. 3), but
Professor Powers's sense of empathy obscures the changing nature of American
history. The willingness of immigrant Americans to work hard for a better life
has not changed, but America's response certainly has.

America's immigration laws have become far more restrictive than earlier in our
history. Many who aspire today to the American dream are met not by the Statue
of Liberty, but by the border patrol.

The appropriate comparison for Professor Powers's parents may not be Korean
immigrants with modest amounts of capital and family members who have doctorates
in computer science, but refugees from Central America and Asia. These new
Americans come only with what William Powers's parents came with: a desire for a
better future and a willingness to endure bitter labor to find it.

They are met, however, with transformed immigration laws that deprive many of
them of legal status and find an economy that rewards them meagerly. An earlier
wave of immigrants worked in industries and enterprises that required
determination, but few skills and miniscule capital. These industries are gone,
and their opportunities with them.

America may indeed be a land of opportunity for those with computer science
doctorates or the money to open a small business, but what of those without such
assets? What of the ''the huddled masses yearning to breathe free'' who arrive
from Haiti, Guatemala or Laos?

Let us indeed celebrate the triumph of Mr. Powers's hard-working Korean family,
but let us not make of them a celebration of a myth that obscures too many harsh
realities abut America's response to its contemporary immigrants.

 ARNOLD R. SILVERMAN, Ph.D.  Professor of Sociology Nassau Community College
Garden City


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 21, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

28 Cubans Held in U.S. Prison Are Deported by Government

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 24, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


A second group of Cubans chosen for deportation by the Federal Government were
returned to their homeland Tuesday, the Justice Department said.

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
28 Cubans who had been held in the Atlanta Federal Penitentiary had been placed
on a chartered plane at Dobbins Air Force Base, Ga., and flown to Havana.

The returning Cubans had all been convicted of serious crimes in the United
States, Mr. Nelson said. They were returned under terms of an agreement the
United States reached with the Cuban Government in December.

The first group of 23 Cubans were returned on Feb. 21.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 27, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENT FOUND SHOT TO DEATH IN JERSEY CITY

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, March 26


A chief investigator for the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service in
New Jersey was found shot to death last night in his parked car about eight
blocks from his home here.

The officer, Thomas J. Forino, 51 years old, was shot twice in the back of the
head and once in the back, according to Harold J. Ruvoldt Jr., the Hudson County
Prosecutor. Ballistics tests are being conducted to determine the type of weapon
used.

Two police officers on routine patrol found Mr. Forino slumped behind the
steering wheel of his car at 11:42 P.M., about three and a half hours after he
had left home.

His seat belt was fastened, the car's lights were on and the keys were in the
ignition, but the engine was not running, Mr. Ruvoldt said. Mr. Forino's Federal
credentials and money were found on him, but his .38-caliber service revolver
was missing.

Mr. Forino was a 23-year veteran of the Immigration Service. Since 1977, he had
commanded two 10-man squads based in Newark. One investigated the illegal
smuggling of aliens in New Jersey and the other the issuing of fraudulent
immigration documents.

James Pomeroy, director of the Newark office, said there was no indication that
the murder was work-related. ''This comes as a complete, complete shock out of
nowhere,'' he said.

Mr. Ruvoldt said Mr. Forino had arrived at his home in a high-rise apartment
complex behind City Hall in late afternoon Monday and left about 7:15 P.M.,
telling his wife his destination, Mr. Ruvoldt said. They had been married a
month.

''He had no business-related appointments we're aware off,'' Mr. Ruvoldt said.
He would not say where Mr. Forino went Monday evening or whom he saw.

The car was found about 10 yards south of an overhead railroad trestle at the
corner of Sixth Street and Marin Boulevard. There is no regular curbside parking
there. On one side of the boulevard is a debris-strewn lot. On the other side,
beyond a chain-link fence, is a block-long complex of town-house apartments.

Investigators believe the killer was in the back seat of Mr. Forino's car and
may have gained entry because he was an acquaintance, Mr. Ruvoldt said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 5, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Growing Up Protestant in 50's Newark

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words


To the Editor:


Peter A. Quinn's ''In Search of Protestants'' (Op-Ed, March 16), about a Bronx
boy's puzzlement in the 1950's, made me recall my childhood.

I was born shortly after the Depression, the only child of Swedish immigrants
boarding in the early 50's with an elderly man in need of a housekeeper and
willing to accept a family of three in his one-family house in the Weequahic
section of Newark. I was in the third grade and quickly realized I was different
from most of the other kids in the neighborhood, having very blond hair and
extremely red cheeks that virtually glowed when I was nervous or shy.

My last name also was unusual, ending like so many Swedish names with ''son,''
while most of my classmates' names ended in ''berg'' or ''stein.'' While the
''bergs'' and the ''steins'' attended the public schools with me, the Flynns and
Russos went to the parochial schools. I knew nothing of Jewish people before
coming to New Jersey from New York's Long Island and was naturally curious. My
curiosity was generously satisfied by answers filled with pride and a culture I
began to admire.

There was a best friend whose family at first tolerated a young Protestant girl
who wanted to share in their faith (this was a new experience for them, too).
When I showed up on their doorstep with an Easter basket filled with colored
eggs on Passover, they swallowed hard, smiled warmly and invited me in to
partake of their traditional seder. When my friend came to my home for
Christmas, my parents were excited witnesses to great wonderment in the eyes of
a child who had never experienced the magic of a Christmas tree from floor to
ceiling.

In this neighborhood that sheltered me and shared with me the Old Testament
lessons, I grew, never realizing that I was not a minority person or that the
majority can sometimes be brutal in its prejudices. Lox and bagels are still a
favorite treat, and I know I've turned a few people on to Swedish meatballs.

Laughter and tears, shared with mutual respect, have put profound order in my
world - for the youth that was then and the adult that is now - which is what
makes it shocking to me that the whole world doesn't seem able to just ''get the
hang of it.''

GLADYS INGMANSON GOLDER Roselle Park, N.J., March 20, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 13, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Economic Migrants From Latin America

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 219 words


To the Editor:

Arthur C. Helton's misinformation about asylum processes is of little use to
asylum applicants or the public (Op- Ed, April 2). His statement that asylum
seekers meet ''ideological discrimination'' is false, as is his claim that
Salvadoran and Guatemalan applicants meet unlawful prejudgment.

These are serious charges, and Mr. Helton should prove them in a court of law or
stop accusing those who disagree with his predilections of malfeasance in
office. He is unable to prove them because they are simply untrue.

How can it be, he asks, that there's a higher rate of approvals for Bulgaria,
Hungary and the Soviet Union than Central America? There's a low approval rate
for Nicaragua as well as El Salvador, as Mr. Helton omits to say.

Who is surprised to learn that population flows from Central America and the
Caribbean contain large portions of economic migrants, given the long history of
large-scale illegal immigration from there? Who is surprised to learn that
migrating to the U.S. to get a job is more common in El Salvador than in
Bulgaria? Mr. Helton's surprise is unlikely to be shared by citizens - or judges
- who examine the evidence.

ELLIOTT ABRAMS

Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs
Washington, April 2, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 17, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IN RICHMOND HILL, LATINS ARE LATEST IN MELTING POT

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1621 words


When Fanny and Eligio Meola bought a three-story brick house on a rutted dead-
end street in Richmond Hill several years ago, their neighbors were wary of the
Colombian newcomers and their four children.

None of the longtime Italian residents on the working-class block actually
communicated their displeasure, Mrs. Meola said, but she nonetheless heard the
whispered second- or third-hand comments.

''They had the image that we'd be rowdy, dirty and loud, but we proved them
wrong,'' said Mrs. Meola, a self-possessed woman who arrived in the United
States 15 years ago with dreams that have largely been fullfilled. ''They soon
realized we were a hard-working family, a serious family, and there's been a
tremendous change.''

The change is a testimony to how one Queens neighborhood - long the preserve of
German, Irish and Italian immigrants - has adjusted to its latest influx of
striving foreigners. Once a solidly white area, Richmond Hill is now 22 percent
Spanish-speaking, with an increasing number of Asians.

Many of the recent arrivals start out in dingy apartments above the stores along
Jamaica or Libery Avenues and then move to modest row houses, in the southern
half of the neighborhood, that they share with relatives or friends. On these
unprepossessing streets, children from Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela, South Korea
or Taiwan play double dutch or punch ball with their counterparts of Western
European heritage.

Their parents, as a rule, have neither the language skills nor the leisure time
for such easy mixing. But few of them complain of overt bigotry, which is heard
from time to time on the wraparound porches and manicured lawns north of Jamaica
Avenue.

''We're often misrepresented as an Archie Bunker neighborhood,'' said Michael
Hardiman, a doctoral student in psychology and a native of Richmond Hill, where
his parents, grandfather and older brother live down the street from the Meolas.
''You might meet a few people like that in a bar, but any prejudice is based on
ignorance more than real malice.

''Growing up here means not knowing what an American is who isn't an ethnic
American, and that's the opposite of Archie Bunker closed-mindedness.''

''It's not even tolerance, actually,'' said Tommy Hardiman, Michael's brother.
''We're happy to have them in the area. Newcomers - how they're treated - they
treat back the same way.''

The life that is lived in the Meola house is a contemporary variant of what goes
on at the Hardimans, where three generations settled when they fled the blight
of the Bushwick section of Brooklyn, getting by as best they could on Pat
Hardiman's salary as a terminal-service agent at Kennedy International Airport.

Mrs. Meola also works at the airport, in the kitchen where Eastern Airlines
prepares its meals, and it is there that she met Gladys Manosalvas, who arrived
from Ecuador three years after her friend and settled as a new bride in Astoria,
Queens.

Mrs. Meola and her husband, after years of working double shifts at a series of
factories, had bought a house with a rental apartment, and they urged the
Manosalvas family to join them as tenants, an invitation gratefully accepted.

The commute is easier, Mrs. Manosalvas said, the neighborhood is ''tranquilo,
muy bonito,'' and the local elementary school, Public School 66, looks after its
immigrant families with tenderness. In Astoria, the Manosalvases had only one
Hispanic acquaintance, a Cuban man who owned the corner bodega, but in Richmond
Hill they joined a burgeoning Spanish-speaking community.

''Now,'' Mrs. Manosalvas said, ''it's all falling into place.''

What began as a real-estate transaction blossomed into an extended family. Mrs.
Mansosalvas, her husband, Orlando, and her 7-year-old daughter, Gladys, have
their own apartment, but the two families function as one. Denise Meola, who is
18, and Fanny Meola, 16, help Gladys with her homework in a plant-filled living
room that is dominated by a huge television set. Lissette Meola, 13, a sixth
grader at P.S. 66, walks Gladys home from school each afternoon, and Gladys, in
turn, teaches Leonardo Meola, a first grader, to make hats out of a folded
newspaper.

''I call them brothers and sisters because they're just like brothers and
sisters,'' said Gladys, one of the brightest children in her second- grade class
and an aspiring schoolteacher.

Youthful Interpreters

Gladys, born in this country, speaks perfect English, as do her unofficial Meola
siblings. It is the children who navigate and negotiate for the adults, who have
little time for mastering a new language and were interviewed with the help of
an interpreter.

Mrs. Manosalvas remembers her first year in Astoria, when the subway was such a
daunting proposition that she never traveled alone. Mrs. Meola shudders at the
recollection of feeling ''basically illiterate'' until she ''bought a little
book'' and learned enough English ''to survive.''

''We communicate through the kids,'' Mrs. Manosalvas said, brushing her hand
over the top of her daughter's head in a gesture of thanks. ''They translate the
school notices.''

The language barrier and the burdensome demands of multiple blue- collar jobs
have slowed the integration of Hispanic people into the institutional life of
Richmond Hill. The Parent-Teacher Association at P.S. 66 has no Hispanic board
members and does not publish a bilingual newsletter, because, its president
said, there is no one with a knowledge of Spanish to help prepare it.

Spanish-Speaking Priest

The Holy Child Jesus Church, at 111-11 86th Avenue, which serves a Roman
Catholic parish of 4,000 families, offers no mass in Spanish, although there is
one priest who speaks the language. St. Benedict Joseph Labre Roman Catholic
Church, on nearby 118th Street, added its first Spanish mass last month.

Community Planning Board No. 9 - which represents Richmond Hill, Woodhaven,
Ozone Park and Kew Gardens - has 1 Spanish-speaking member out of 36.

He is George Ortiz, a 34-year-old of Puerto Rican ancestry, who was raised in
the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn by Spanish-speaking grandparents and now
works as an assistant legal counsel to Donald R. Manes, the Queens Borough
President.

Mr. Ortiz has encountered a range of problems in trying to engage his Hispanic
neighbors in the politcal process - the fear of sounding like a ''jibaro,'' or
bumpkin, at English-language meetings; the unwillingness on the part of many
legal residents to abandon citizenship in their native countries, to which they
may some day return, and the cultural objections of husbands whose wives express
an interest in politics.

''I feel that the Hispanic community should be ready to get involved,'' Mr.
Ortiz said. ''We need people willing to participate and not be afraid, and by
'afraid,' I mean intimidated by our process.''

Multiple Factory Jobs

Intimidation is the least of the obstacles for the Meola and Manosalvas
families. Mr. Manosalvas, who completed two years of university study in
Ecuador, has a job similar to his wife's at La Guardia Airport, and their
conflicting shifts often require that one or the other wake up at 4 A.M. to
report to work at 6.

The Meolas once juggled multiple factory jobs - Mrs. Meola rising to a
supervisor at a doll factory - until both landed full-time airport work.

Four years ago, the Meolas bought a house, their goal since the day they
temporarily left their children in Colombia and joined other relatives in
Richmond Hill. But, two years later Mr. Meola fell from a truck, required two
ligament operations, and has since been out of work and collecting worker's
compensation.

''Muy duro,'' Mrs. Meola said, her eyes cloudy with the memory of bearing down
anew, meeting mortgage payments by trimming an already tight budget and
accepting loans from friends. ''I cry every time I think of some of the things
we've been through.''

Beneficiary of Kindness

Mrs. Meola, by her own accounts, has become a guide and counselor to as many
Hispanic newcomers as she can, including 15 cousins scattered throughout
Richmond Hill and New Jersey. ''Anyone who asks,'' she said. ''All I have to do
is remember.''

''People who come here and find someone to take them by the hand have an easier
time of it,'' she continued. ''Otherwise, there's a lot of frustration. Once
they find work, they're not demoralized. Until they do, I feed them and give
them everything they need without expecting anything in return.''

The Manosalvas family has been a beneficiary of that kindness, sharing a life
and borrowing courage from their friends, but that has not quieted the longing
for their homeland. Mrs. Manosalvas concedes, grudgingly, that her daughter will
probably chose to stay here, but she yearns for a place where there is no snow
to shovel and her parents and siblings are nearby.

''We are alone here, basically,'' she said. ''I want to grow old in my
country.''

Positive Expectations

The Meolas, however, have sunk their roots here, assembled their loved ones
around them, and turned their thoughts to new American dreams to replace the
ones that have already been realized.

One recent afternoon, with Leonardo and Gladys snuggled next to her on the
cut-velvet couch, Fanny Meola was asked if she had honestly expected to be a
homeowner when she left Colombia. ''Si, positivamente,'' she answered with a
firm toss of her salt-and-pepper hair.

That spunk, she seemed to be saying, made anything possible, and she hesitated
only for a second, lowering her eyes and fingering the fur trim on her crocheted
sweater, when asked what wishes remained unfulfilled.

''I would like,'' Mrs. Meola said, ''to own a boutique.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Big City, Small Town: Last of five articles that have appeared since
April 3 about one community in Queens

GRAPHIC: photo of Tommy Hardiman (NYT/Vic DeLucia) (page B4); photo of home in
Queens (NYT/Vic DeLucia); photo of members of Meola and Manosalvas families
(NYT/Vic DeLucia)

TYPE: SERIES

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 25, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AUTHOR SAYS OFFICIALS WILL AID ENTRY TO U.S.

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 201 words


Farley Mowat, a prominent Canadian writer and naturalist who was denied
permission to enter the United States on Tuesday, said today that Prime Minister
Brian Mulroney and Joe Clark, Canada's Minister of External Affairs, intend to
raise the matter with their ''opposite numbers'' in Washington.

Mr. Mowat, author of several books condemning the slaughter of wildlife and
destruction of natural habitats, had intended to fly to Los Angeles from Toronto
to promote his lates book, ''Sea of Slaughter,'' which chronicles the
destruction of wildlife in Canada and the American Northeast.

But officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service told him he was on
their list of inadmissable aliens because of information a spokesman said
related to laws barring Communists, anarchists and persons who had acted against
American interests.

A source close to the immigration service said that Mr. Mowat had been barred in
large part because of statements he was reported to have made threatening
violence against the armed forces of the United States.

Mr. Mowat said that he had once suggested shooting at American aircraft and
added that the United States State Department had ''no sense of humor''.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 4, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Robert Gewald Is Wed To Nina Rao Cameron

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50, Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 97 words


Nina Rao Cameron, a special counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, and Robert M. Gewald, a concert and artists' manager, were married
yesterday. Justice Theodore R. Kupferman of the State Supreme Court's Appellate
Division performed the ceremony at the Appellate Division courthouse in
Manhattan.

The bride is the daughter of Judge Paul P. Rao of the United States Court of
International Trade in New York and the late Grace Rao. Her previous marriage
ended in divorce, as did that of her husband, the son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel Gewald of New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 5, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

EMIGRES WELCOME APARTHEID BATTLE

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 47, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 849 words


As resistance to apartheid rises in their homeland, many South Africans in the
New York area say they welcome growing American concern over the troubled
situation thousands of miles away.

Although they came to the United States sharing a repugnance for the South
African Government's racial policies, the small community has long been scarcely
visible. In interviews, nearly all - black and white - said they were stirred by
the events at home. But their feelings differed, running from concern to fear to
anger.

Many South Africans, including whites, said they were elated and often took part
in the swelling American protests against apartheid. The majority of the whites,
however, while expressing heightened concern, said they were not involved in the
protests.

Most of the whites are professionals and live comfortably in the suburbs. While
a few black South Africans have found success as professors, musicians, nurses
and businessmen, most in New York exist precariously as refugees and complain of
difficulties in obtaining immigrant status.

'The Writing on the Wall'

It is estimated that there are 35,000 whites from South Africa and 2,500 blacks
in the United States. Almost all the blacks live in the New York area, members
of the community said, and the whites have settled mainly in urban areas of the
Northeast - New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts.

Great Neck, L.I., for example, seems like a suburb of Johannesburg, with
affluent white South Africans commonly seen in neighborhood banks and
supermarkets. They have large houses with central air-conditioning, gardens,
servants - some even imported from the homeland.

South Africans have been emigrating to the United States in increasing numbers
since the early 1950's, after the Afrikaner Government turned racial segregation
into a political system called apartheid.

The whites left because of what many call ''the writing on the wall,'' the
feeling that South Africa's racial policies will inevitably lead to civil war
between whites and blacks.

They are like the 46-year-old accountant who feels ''completely assimilated'' in
the United States but asked not to be named because he still has relatives in
South Africa.

Lawyer Urges Majority Rule

''I left in 1974 because I hate the South African Government and didn't see any
future for my children,'' he said. Questioned if he knew any black South
Africans, he replied with surprise: ''Are there any here?''

Joel Carlson, a liberal white lawyer who lives in Great Neck but retains ties
with the black South African community, said wealthy white South Africans ''tend
to gain entry and subsequently U.S. citizenship more easily'' than black
opponents of the regime.

Mr. Carlson fled with his family in 1971 because of harassment. In lectures,
articles and a book, ''No Neutral Ground,'' he urges majority rule in South
Africa.

''We still regard ourselves as displaced South Africans,'' said Mervyn Susser,
professor of epidemiology at the Columbia University School of Medicine. His
wife, Dr. Zena Stein, also a professor there, agreed, calling their home in
Hastings-on-Hudson ''a transit camp for South Africans.''

Approving of the recent student protests at Columbia, Dr. Susser said he favored
''measured disinvestment by universities as an important symbol and a means of
leverage on South Africa and companies.''

'Microcosm of Divisions'

Bernard Magubane, a professor of anthropology at the University of Connecticut,
described the South African community in this country as ''a microcosm of the
racial divisions'' of the motherland. While most whites are well-to-do and
easily assimilated, he said most blacks come as political refugees or students
and struggle to survive.

Thabi Nyide, a Columbia student, came to the United States in 1976 on a
scholarship because she was convinced that, if she stayed in Johannesburg, she
would be arrested. She expressed some bitterness over the reception of black
South Africans in the United States, though.

''We see a great reception here for Ethiopians, Poles and Cubans,'' she said,
''but so little action for the victims of apartheid.''

John Makatini, a spokesman for the African National Congress, the main
nationalist movement in South Africa, said the black South Africans' biggest
problem here was that they ''don't qualify for refugee status.'' He spoke of the
Free South Africa Movement in the United States ''with happiness and gratitude
after years of frustration.''

Dumisani Kumalo, projects director for the American Committee on Africa and a
leader of the disinvestment campaign, has traveled all over the United States
talking to politicians, trade unions and churches. Mr. Kumalo, a founding member
of the South African Union of Black Journalists, fled in 1977 after the union
was banned.

''It makes me happy,'' Mr. Kumalo said, ''to say five states - Connecticut,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan and Nebraska - have passed divestment
ordinances and another 30 states are considering legislation limiting the
investment of public funding in South Africa.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Southeast Asians Hold A Reunion in California

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

DATELINE: CAMP PENDLETON, Calif., May 5


About 10,000 Southeast Asian refugees gathered at this Marine Corps base
Saturday for a reunion including Vietnamese barbecues, photographs of long-lost
friends and exhibits of their life when they arrived here a decade ago.

They were among 80,000 Cambodian and Vietnamese immigrants processed here.

Most of the adults at the reunion spoke in their native tongues, while their
children, many of them too young to recall the camp, chatted in English.

Crowds of Vietnamese gathered around a massive sculpture called the Hand of
Hope. The 8-foot hand, with replicas of a Vietnamese and a Cambodian child
cradled in its palm, was covered with freshly cut roses. The work, which was
dedicated on July 4, 1975, was built by a Vietnamese artist and two Marines.

''When we first came, we were very touched by their sensitivity and caring,''
said Loan Bui, who was 8 years old when she and her family arrived in the United
States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 8, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SANCTUARY GROUPS SUE TO HALT TRIALS

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BISHOP, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, May 7


A suit was filed today in Federal District Court here seeking to bar Attorney
General Edwin Meese 3d from instituting new prosecutions of people who offer
sanctuary to Central Americans seeking asylum.

The suit was filed on behalf of more than 70 national and local religious
sanctuary groups and other organizations aiding Central Americans who say they
are refugees from political persecution.

It also asked that Mr. Meese and the Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Alan Nelson, be prohibited from arresting and deporting
Salvadorans and Guatemalans in the United States until conditions of civil war
and human rights violations have ceased in those countries. The suit was brought
by the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York and the National Lawyers
Guild on behalf of the plaintiffs.

Among the plaintiffs are the American Baptist Churches, the
Unitarian-Universalist Association, the United Methodist Church and the
Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). Also participating in the suit is the Casa Oscar
Romero, a Roman Catholic church-sponsored shelter in San Benito, Tex., whose
director, Jack Elder, was convicted in Houston in February on charges of
assisting and transporting undocumented aliens.

Statutes Are Cited

Citing Federal statutes and international law, the plaintiffs argue that people
fleeing El Salvador and Guatemala because they fear persecution have a legal
right to enter the United States temporarily.

The plaintiffs argue that the Refugee Act of 1980 entitles aliens to asylum if
they can demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution. They also say that
''persons of faith'' in this country have a religious obligation and a
constitutional right under the First Amendment's clause on free exercise of
religion to protect and extend humanitarian aid to these aliens.

The plaintiffs ask that the court grant an injunction barring the Government
from continuing existing prosecutions or starting new ones against religious
sanctuary workers and to declare that the workers are lawfully entitled to
provide assistance to aliens seeking refuge from El Salvador and Guatemala.

They also ask that the Government be barred from arresting and deporting these
aliens.

John Bellaurdo, a spokesman for the immigration service in Los Angeles, said
today that he could not comment on the merits of the suit because he had not yet
seen it. ''We are not prosecuting religious sanctuary workers,'' he said. ''What
we're doing is prosecuting individuals engaged in smuggling illegal aliens.''

Hearing in Arizona

The suit comes at a time when attorneys for Arizona sanctuary workers who were
indicted in January are preparing for a hearing in Federal District Court in
Phoenix on May 23 and 24. The purpose of the hearing is to decide whether to
permit testimony at the trials in an attempt to show that the defendants'
conduct was justified by their religious beliefs and by conditions in the
aliens' native countries.

The indictment of 16 people, including a Protestant minister, two Roman Catholic
priests and three nuns was announced by the Justice Department Jan. 14. The
71-count indictment charged the defendants with conspiracy and transporting and
harboring illegal aliens. More than 60 aliens arrested in cities around the
country were named as co-conspirators but were not indicted.

The Government contends that most undocumented aliens from Central America enter
the United States to improve their financial status rather than to flee
persecution.

The criminal indictments in Arizona resulted largely from the infiltration of
Tucson's Southside United Presbyterian Church, which has been a major center in
the sanctuary movement. Posing as concerned Christians, two men, Jesus Cruz and
Salomon Delgado, wore concealed recording devices to church meetings and made
about 100 surreptitious tape recordings of conversations about the movement.

The Center for Constitutional Rights, which is representing Wendy LeWin, a
sanctuary worker indicted in Phoenix, will ask that all evidence obtained
through these warrentless recordings be excluded from the criminal trial.

The Government contends that the taped conversations can be admitted as evidence
because they are discussions of criminal activity and therefore are not
protected under the Constitution as a free exercise of religion.

The Rev. John M. Fife of the Southside Presbyterian Church, one of the sanctuary
workers indicted in Tucson, said there had been a ''dramatic increase'' in the
number of churches in the sanctuary movement since the indictments were issued
in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOREIGN-BORN INMATES BURDEN STATE PRISONS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 44, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 608 words


A growing number of inmates in the state prison system are foreign-born, and a
majority of them could be deported to save the state the cost of incarceration,
the chairman of the New York State Senate Crime and Correction Committee said
yesterday.

The chairman, Senator Christopher J. Mega, Republican of Brooklyn, released a
report by the State Department of Correctional Services showing that the number
of foreign-born persons entering the state's prisons increased from 350 in 1978
to 838 in 1982, a rise of nearly 140 percent.

By October 1984, the report said, 2,505, or 8 percent, of the state's 32,700
prisoners were born in a foreign country.

The committee's counsel, Jeremiah B. McKenna, said that about 1,500 of the
foreign-born prisoners were either illegal aliens or subject to deportation
because they had committed a felony within five years of immigrating.

However, Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Washington, said that ''deportation involves due
process, just like a criminal process does.

''It's not just that we throw them on a plane and fly them out of the country,''
he said.

In most cases, he said, there are administrative hearings, court challenges and
appeals.

'Dramatic Rise'

The sharp increase in foreign-born inmates, the committee report said, ''is
almost wholly attributable to a dramatic rise in commitments from Caribbean,
South and Central American countries.''

The number of people imprisoned from those countries increased from 239 in 1978
to 692 in 1982, the report stated.

Mr. Mega emphasized the sharp rise in the number of Cubans, which the report
said increased during the four-year period from 36 to 159. Most of the Cubans,
he said, came to this country as part of the boat lift of 125,000 Cubans let go
by the government of Premier Fidel Castro in 1980 from the port of Mariel.

Estimates of the number of criminals among those refugees have varied from 2,500
to 40,000, and officials of the administration of President Jimmy Carter have
acknowledged the influx of refugees was badly mishandled.

Accord on Repatriation

In December, negotiators for the United States and Cuba reached an agreement to
repatriate to Cuba 2,746 Mariel refugees classified as criminals or mental
patients.

The State Legislature is considering a bill to permit the early parole of
prisoners for the purpose of deportation. Mr. Mega said that he believes the
deportation of 1,500 inmates or their transfer to Federal custody would open
enough cells for the equivalent of three prisons and would save $25 million
annually.

Last year, the Federal Government paid New York $900,000 for the upkeep of
prisoners who came here from Mariel. But Mr. Mega said he was not interested in
reimbursement.

Mr. Mega's committee is to conduct a hearing tomorrow on ''the impact of crimes
committed by aliens'' that will focus particularly on crime caused by the
so-called Marielitos.

Among those testifying will be two Yonkers women who were raped and shot last
year by two Mariel refugees. One of the women was blinded. in the attack.

Mr. McKenna pointed out that the man convicted of the rapes, Almondo Morano, had
been arrested in 1982 and had pleaded guilty to possession of cocaine and three
handguns. He was sentenced to the time already served.

Before Mr. Morano was released, Mr. McKenna said, the New York office of the
I.N.S. was notified about the possibility of deporting him. The New York office,
Mr. McKenna said, said it did not have jurisidiction because Mr. Morano's was a
Florida case.

Mr. Jervis said he was not familiar with the Morano case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 20, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

RETURN OF CUBA FROM U.S. IS 'GOING WELL'

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


A number of Cuban refugees who have been returned here from the United States
because of histories of criminal offenses or mental illness are ''back at home
and living completely normal lives,'' according to a senior Cuban official.

Others among some 200 refugees who began returning to Cuba in February are still
in medical quarantine, the official, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs,
Ricardo Alarcon, said in an interview. Still others, who were accused of
committing crimes in the United States, have been sent to prison, he said.

United States officials here said they had not been physically monitoring the
return of the refugees, which will eventually reach the rate of 100 a month. But
they said that they believed it was ''going very well'' and that they had no
reason to suspect that the refugees were being mistreated.

The refugees were among 125,000 Cubans who left Cuba for the United States from
the port of Mariel in 1980 in an illegal exodus that came to be known as the
Mariel boatlift. Some Cubans were identified by United States authorities soon
after they arrived in Florida as criminals or mental patients and were taken
into custody. Others were charged with crimes after they entered American
society.

In the first major diplomatic accord between Cuba and the United States in seven
years, the two countries agreed last December that 2,746 people who the United
States authorities said were not acceptable as immigrants would be returned to
Cuba. They also agreed that the normal immigration of Cubans to the United
States, which had been stopped in reaction to the boatlift, would be resumed.

United States officials here say that the immigration applications of a little
over 700 Cubans have been approved since the agreement was signed and that 127
people have left for the United States. The officials say that a backlog of
about 18,000 applications accumulated during the nearly four years that
immigration from Cuba was barred and that they expect about 10,000 Cuban
immigrants to be admitted to the United States this year.

As the refugees in the group of 2,746 are being returned, Cuban officials said,
they are being quarantined for about 30 days at the Melena del Sur Hospital, 36
miles south of Havana. There, the officials said, they undergo thorough medical
examinations to determine whether they have communicable diseases, particularly
acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS.

''As you know,'' said Dr. Juan M. Diego Cobelo of Cuba's Ministry of Health,
''this disease does not exist in our country and we want to prevent its
introduction.''

Mr. Alarcon said the cases of the Cubans charged with crimes in the United
States were being reviewed with regard to Cuban law. But essentially, he said,
those convicted in the United States will complete their sentences in Cuba and
those awaiting trial will be tried by Cuban courts.

Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, has repeatedly denied United States charges that
he emptied some of his prisons and mental institutions and put the inmates
aboard boats at Mariel bound for Florida. Thus, any of the refugees who were
listed by United States authorities as criminals or mental patients, but who had
not been charged with crimes in the United States, are being permitted to return
to their old communities after they have been cleared by health officers.

''According to the information I have gathered,'' Mr. Alarcon said, ''these
people are going back to their homes and our people are receiving them in a
mature and normal way. It is going very, very well. We are helping them to find
jobs.''

Mr. Alarcon said he had no objection to an American reporter talking with some
of the freed refugees, but other officials said they did not know where the
refugees were living and could not arrange interviews.

Many Cuban officials interpret the immigration accord as evidence of an
improvement in the generally hostile relations between the United States and
Cuba. But a United States official here said there had been ''no substantial
change'' in the relationship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 22, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WASHINGTON;
HOT LINE TO CUBA

BYLINE: By James Reston

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Reagan Administration is stuck with so many unavoidable problems these days
- budget deficits, trade deficits, etc. - that it's a puzzle why it insists on
punishing itself with additional avoidable problems.

Its latest example of self-inflicted wounds, after the President's tour of the
German cemetery, was its decision to set up an official radio service to tell
the Cuban people 14 1/2 hours every day how wonderful life is in the United
States and how dreary it is in Cuba.

As if they didn't know. They have been hearng this news from their families who
have escaped to Florida, and from the commercial radio stations on the mainland
that come in loud and clear to Havana.

Also, the official Voice of America, with its relay stations in the Caribbean,
is, with the possible exception of the BBC, the most reliable and detailed
source of electronic news in the world, and can be heard from one end of Cuba to
the other. (Too bad it's ignored at home.) Nevertheless, the Reagan
Administration is spending a bucket to run Radio Marti, named for one of Cuba's
greatest heroes of independence.

If it had been named Radio Monroe to emphasize that the United States would not
permit foreign nations to threaten the freedom and security of the Western
Hemisphere, that might have made sense. But calling it Radio Marti was as
offensive to Fidel Castro as it would have been to President Reagan if Mr.
Castro had started broadcasting to the United States on Radio Jefferson.

The predictable result was that as soon as Radio Marti proclaimed ''Buenos dias,
Cuba,'' Mr. Castro -who has the capacity to jam all U.S. broadcasts with the
flick of a switch - announced that he had suspended his agreement with Mr.
Reagan to release 3,000 political prisoners and up to 20,000 Cuban immigrants a
year. At the same time, he canceled his commitment to take back to Cuba the
2,746 Cuban criminals and mental patients now languishing in U.S. prisons.

Well, obviously this is self-serving Cuban propaganda and no doubt Mr. Castro
will reconsider after a while. But why, with all the more important things it
has to handle at home and abroad, would the Reagan Administration get into this
silly controversy?

Mr. Castro's so-called revolution has been a spectacular failure. He has been
surviving by borrowing from the Soviet Union and stealing modern technology from
the U.S. or elsewhere as best he can, and shipping his unemployed as military
mercenaries to fight Moscow's ''wars of liberation'' in Africa when he can't
even liberate himself or his people from Moscow's subsidies. Lately, in his
declining years, Mr. Castro has begun to wonder about his dreams of leading a
Communist revolution in the hemisphere. He is still fiddling with it in
Nicaragua and the rest of Central America, but recently has been trying to
reestablish diplomatic relations with the major nations of South America in the
hope they will lend him the money they don't have and are trying to borrow for
themselves.

Mr. Castro is no dummy, despite all his heroic pride and bloated rhetoric.

He knows that Cuba is only 90 miles from Florida and a long way from Moscow,
whose political and economic philosophy is rejected by every Communist party
that ever heard about the invention of the computer.

So why not let him deal with the consequences of his failures and the failures
of the Communist system?

Why badger him over 14 hours a day with official broadcasts out of Washington
telling the Cubans that his system isn't working, when they know that better
than anybody else?

All Radio Marti will do is revive the old bogey of Yankee domination -maybe Mr.
Castro's last chance of survival. But that's not the way President Reagan sees
it. Four years ago, being more interested in propaganda than in policy, he
decided that we should have a radio transmitter in Florida to educate the
Cubans. Now, with the support of Congress, he's got it.

Maybe he has a point. Radio Marti will come into Cuba louder and stronger than
Florida's commercial stations or the Voice of America: more news, more jazz,
more information about how pathetic they are under Mr. Castro, and how wonderful
it would be if they tossed him to the sharks. Maybe this will work, but the
guess here is that the louder Washington shouts the less Havana will listen.

My own silly view is that the only things we have in common with Cuba are
geography and baseball, and that, if we could get an expansion Latin American
team into the big leagues, as we did with Canada, we might make more progress
than telling Cuba what bums they are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 5, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Aliens' Hunger Strike Ended

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 4


The hunger strike by Salvadoran aliens being held at the El Centro immigration
facility ended Monday with the release on bond of the seven remaining strikers,
who had spent a week without food in protest of alleged mistreatment.

Meanwhile, a Federal district judge ruled today that the families and attorneys
of all the aliens must be told when and where the immigrants were transferred.

Attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said such notification
was already routine, but the judge, David Kenyon, said he was trying to
''eliminate a fear that someone is getting lost in the system.''

Sandra Pettit of the Immigrants Rights Office told Judge Kenyon that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service had harassed participants in the hunger
strike by transferring their leaders to facilities in Denver, San Diego and
Inglewood.

Assistant United States Attorney Lawrence Chamblee denied this, saying, ''There
is no evidence of anyone being transferred as a result of their participation in
the strike.''

Mr. Chamblee acknowledged that some detainees were transferred without notice to
their attorneys, but he said that was ''only because of the large caseload.''

Judge Kenyon's ruling came in a 1981 lawsuit that charged mistreatment of
Salvadoran detainees at the El Centro facility by the immigration service. In
1982, Judge Kenyon ordered the service to allow Salvadorans being held for
deportation proceedings to see their attorneys.

But the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Center for Immigrants
Rights and other groups returned to court Friday to ask for another order,
saying Salvadorans were being harassed for their participation in the hunger
strike by being barred from seeing their lawyers. The hunger strike began
Memorial Day.

Judge Kenyon instructed Government attorneys to return today with a list of all
Salvadorans still at the detention center. The list reflected that 55 people,
including 23 Salvadorans, had been transferred to other detention centers since
the strike began. The Government said no Salvadorans remained at El Centro.

Judge Kenyon said assertions that the service has beaten detainees would be
addressed at the trial of the 1981 case, scheduled for July 9.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 6, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

JEWISH GROUP SAYS BONN SHIFTS POLICY ON EX-NAZIS

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 496 words


The World Jewish Congress said yesterday that West Germany had quietly altered a
longstanding policy and was refusing to accept some Nazi war criminals who had
been ordered deported from the United States for fraudulent entry after World
War II.

Under the new policy, the Jewish group said, West Germany would only accept
deportees of German nationality. This would exclude Eastern Europeans and others
who served the Nazis.

Previously, the organization said, the Bonn Government had committed itself to
readmitting all refugees who emigrated to the United States from West Germany
under false pretenses.

A spokesman for the West German Embassy in Washington said cases were under
discussion with American authorities but declined further comment.

The World Jewish Congress, representing Jews in the United States and 69 other
countries, also said that West Germany had sought to force the return to the
United States of a German-born former NASA space official who voluntarily
returned to West Germany and surrendered his American citizenship last year
rather than contest immigration charges involving war crimes.

Saturn Rocket Director

The official, Arthur Rudolph, director of the project that produced the Saturn
moon rocket for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, had been
charged by the Justice Department with having worked slave laborers to death at
an underground German rocket factory at the Dora-Nordhausen concentration camp.

The acts themselves are not punishable under American law but so-called
persecutors are not eligible for entry into the country. Neal M. Sher, director
of the Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations, yesterday called
the Rudolph case closed and said ''as far as we're concerned he's a Nazi
persecutor and Nazi persecutors are not allowed into the U.S.''

Gerd Westdickenberg, a representative in the press department of the West German
Embassy in Washington, said he had no comment on the Rudolph case.

As for any changes in his country's policy of accepting deportees, he said: ''We
are in contact with the United States Government in this matter. We are
examining every individual case presented to us and we have informed the U.S.
Government which types of cases we are or are not willing to accept.'' He said
his Government ''at the time being was not aware of any request by the U.S.
Government.''

However, Kalman Sultanik, vice president of the World Jewish Congress, made
public a copy of a letter sent last October by the West German Embassy to Mr.
Sher about the case of an accused Estonian concentration camp official, Karl
Linnas, a resident of Long Island who has been under a deportation order since
1983. He came to the United States from West Germany in 1951.

The letter, signed by Elfried G. Kruger, the West German Consul General, said
his Government ''was not in a position'' to receive Mr. Linnas because ''it is
only willing to receive deportees of German nationality.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 6, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FILIPINOS FLOCKING TO THE U.S. AS MANILA'S TROUBLES GROW

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: MANILA, June 5


In a few weeks a Filipino business executive plans to leave here for Atlanta and
become another addition to the wave of migration that makes Filipinos the
fastest-growing Asian group in the United States.

Although the executive, Froilan Aragon, does not consider himself a political
person, he acknowledges that the assassination in 1983 of the opposition leader
Benigno S. Aquino Jr. and its consequences played a key role in his decision to
move to the United States with his wife and five children.

''It was the rapid deterioration in the political situation here after the
Aquino killing that was really the spur to leave,'' said Mr. Aragon, who is 53.

The case of Mr. Aragon, who has an immigrant visa, represents the upper tier of
the accelerated migration of Filipinos to the United States in the wake of the
economic troubles and political uncertainties that followed the Aquino killing
two years ago.

Drastic and Illegal Steps

Other Filipinos have taken more drastic, and often illegal, steps to settle in
the United States as conditions in the Philippines have worsened.

Of three dozen engineers sent by the National Power Corporation for a training
course in the United States, nine stayed on illegally.

''They all sent me letters, apologizing and offering to pay for the cost of the
training course,'' said Geronimo Velasco, the Energy Minister. ''But of course
there were no return addresses on any of those letters.''

Legally and illegally, the flow of Filipinos into the United States is large and
increasing. Today there are more than a million Filipino-Americans, and legal
immigration is running at 35,000 a year, making Filipinos the second largest
group of Asians in America.

By 1990 Filipinos will surpass Chinese as the largest group of Asians, according
to estimates from the Population Reference Bureau, a nonprofit organization in
Washington that tracks population trends.

Shared History and Culture

The United States is a comfortable setting for Filipinos because of the two
nations' shared history, language and culture. From 1898 to 1946 the Philippines
was an American colony and the evidence of that connection persists. English is
still the language of education, although considerable progress has been made in
developing Tagalog as a national language.

At American consular offices in the Philippines, visa applications jumped 25
percent last year to 181,200. At 35,000 a year, there are more American
immigrant visas being issued in the Philippines than in any other country.

In the United States Embassy in Manila, visa officers regularly work two hours
past the 5 P.M. closing time to handle as many as 1,000 people a day seeking
immigrant or nonimmigrant visas.

''We're bumping against our limits to handle all the cases,'' said Edward
Wilkinson, the Deputy Consul General.

It is applicants in the nonimmigrant category that consular officials must
scrutinize most closely. There are telltale signs that the applicant might try
to stay on, according to visa officers, such as the vacationer who says he is
about to spend a year's salary on a two-week trip to Los Angeles.

Marriage Is an Easy Way

Of the 129,400 applicants last year for nonimmigrant visas, 40,100 were refused.
This year the number of applicants has declined but the number refused has
increased.

Marrying an American is one of the easiest ways to get to the United States,
with spouses of American citizens being issued immigrant visas almost
automatically. The increased pressure to leave has encouraged more young
Filipinos to seek the services of matchmaking services and has revived charges
of exploitation.

With immigration accelerating, so is the ''brain drain'' from the Philippines to
the United States. A study by the Center for Policy and Development of the
University of the Philippines concluded that the savings in the cost of
education that the United States gains each year from the migration to America
of Filipino scientists, engineers and other professionals is more than
Washington's annual economic aid to the Philippines. Accordingly, the study
concludes that the brain drain constitutes a ''reverse foreign aid'' paid by the
Philippines.

Such conclusions are overstated and misguided, according to Vernon Doyle
McAninch, the American Consul General in Manila. First, Mr. McAninch says, the
United States is providing jobs for these skilled people that the Philippine
economy cannot.

In addition, Mr. McAninch questions the calculation of educational costs, noting
that many of the Philippines' top corporate executives and Government officials
attended American universities, often on scholarships.

''We train a lot more brains than we drain,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 11, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IN CANADA'S WEST, PIONEERS RELIVE AN OLD ANGUISH

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

DATELINE: BATOCHE, Saskatchewan, June 4


A few years ago, an armed forces colonel came around to propose that Archie
Nicolas and his neighbors join in re-enacting the battle of Batoche, which ended
the Northwest Rebellion of 1885. It was the last battle in which Canadians
fought and killed each other, ''I advised him against it,'' said Mr. Nicolas,
whose great-grandfather fought on the losing side. ''I said, 'Do you want to
revive the whole thing? There's still a lot of bitter feelings here.' ''

When the 100th anniversary of the battle was observed at Batoche last month, Mr.
Nicolas was just as skittish.

''I said we got nothing to celebrate because we were defeated,'' Mr. Nicolas
said. ''We can commemorate the people who died there, but as far as a
celebration is concerned, count me out.''

Uprising Is Crushed

The battle of Batoche crushed an uprising by the Metis, a people of mixed
European and Indian descent who opened up the Canadian West only to be shunted
aside when the Government encouraged a flood of new immigrants.

In the decisive four-day battle, a force of 800 militiamen and police officers
led by a British general overwhelmed 300 Metis rebels and their Indian allies,
who fired rocks and nails from their muzzleloaders when the ammunition ran out.
The Metis lost much of their land along with a unique way of life.

The leader of the uprising, Louis Riel, was tried for treason and hanged in
November 1885. Prime Minister John A. Macdonald offended French Canadians when
he rejected pleas to spare Mr. Riel, a native of Quebec.

The Prime Minister declared that ''he shall hang though every dog in Quebec bark
in his favor.'' A Citizen of the U.S.  The rebellion even had its American
dimension. Louis Riel had become a United States citizen living in Montana
Territory when the Metis asked him back in 1884 to lead their cause. After the
defeat, his deputy, Gabriel Dumont, escaped to the United States, where he
eventually joined Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show.

All that remains on the battlefield of Batoche is the old white frame church,
rectory and cemetery set amid grassy meadows that roll down to the meandering
South Saskatchewan River. But the uprising quelled here sits uneasily on the
conscience of Canadians, who lack the revolutionary heritage that Americans
have.

''I'd say the big majority of people here think that Louis Riel got a raw deal
and the Metis got a raw deal,'' said Laurier Gareau, a great-grandnephew of the
carpenter who built the church and rectory.

The Metis are descended from the first French explorers who took Indian wives as
they pushed westward and created a life that borrowed from both cultures. They
were joined by some offspring of English-speaking frontiersmen.

''Actually, Metis means half and half,'' said Mr. Nicolas. ''When the white man
married the squaw, their children were half and half.'' Rebellion, or
Resistance?  The Metis trapped, hunted buffalo and drove freight-laden carts
across the prairies. They spoke a French mixed with the Cree Indian dialect and
became intermediaries between Indians and whites. And when government surveyors
and railway builders threatened change, the Metis turned resentful over Ottawa's
indifference to their complaints.

''They were people of the land but they did realize they were being excluded,''
said Keith Meabry, a young Metis who is working on the Batoche centennial.

''Metis people don't look at it as a rebellion,'' Mr. Meabry said. ''They look
at it as a resistance. Metis were being pushed around and they stood up to it.''

In the 1981 census, 98,260 Canadians reported having mixed Indian and European
ancestry, though the Metis National Council thinks the total may be higher. Many
Metis have suffered the chronic poverty, joblessness, poor education and
alcoholism that afflict other native people.

'A Senseless Battle'

''Myself, I feel that we fought a senseless battle,'' said Leonard Pambrun, who
lives on a modest farm outside Duck Lake, where the only battle won by the Metis
was fought. ''We're no further ahead than we were a hundred years ago.''

His forebears fought for Louis Riel and also scouted for the Northwest Mounted
Police. Now, Mr. Pambrun said, ''You're an unfinished Indian and an unfinished
white man, so you're caught in between.''

The Canadian Government, while recognizing the Metis as a distinct ethnic group,
has stopped short of granting them land claims and other rights to which Eskimos
and Indians are entitled.

''We've got no hunting rights,'' Mr. Pambrun said. ''If we want any fresh game
on the table, we got to buy a license like a white person or go poach for it.''

Over a cup of coffee, Mr. Pambrun said that it was hard for Metis to find steady
employment. ''If there was dirty work with a pick or shovel, they'd stand over
you making sure you wouldn't waste a moment rolling a cigarette,'' he said.

'Should Have Stood Up More'

''We really need jobs, and not only the dirty jobs. We should be up there not
being pushed around the way we have been pushed around.''

Mederic McDougall, whose grandfather was jailed after the battle of Batoche,
agreed that his people had suffered from discrimination.

''But I think the Metis were to blame, because we should have stood up more and
shown we were capable people,'' said Mr. McDougall, who is now 82. ''I worked
all my life and I never owed nothing to nobody. I don't know why, but I think
we've been inclined to be held down a bit all our lives.''

The controversy over Louis Riel continues today. Many Metis revere him as a
saint or freedom fighter, though he never sought independence from Canada and
refused to wage guerrilla tactics, at which the Metis could excel. Instead, he
waited in vain for government conciliation and then for divine intervention.

Looking at Both Sides

There has been talk of a posthumous pardon for Louis Riel, though Metis like Mr.
Nicolas object that it would imply that he was guilty of treason. Last month,
Anthony S. Lussier, an associate professor of native studies, led an emotional
symposium at the University of Saskatchewan that argued the conflicting views
about Louis Riel.

''He was one of the most conservative rebels I've ever read about,'' said
Professor Lussier, himself a Metis. ''If Riel were around today, the Metis
organizations wouldn't want him and he wouldn't want them.''

The province of Saskatchewan is commemorating the Northwest Rebellion this
summer with a series of events ranging from a play dramatizing Louis Riel's
trial down to a relay race and buffalo steak barbecues for the tourists.

Norman Babineau, a Metis liaison with Parks Canada on the Batoche centennial,
sees the occasion as a chance for the Metis to honor their martyrs and renew
their cause. But he wonders if it will do any good.

''After the cameras leave, what happens?'' Mr. Babineau asked. ''I think after
1985, the Metis will again become a forgotten people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Leonard Pambrun (NYT); photo of graves of Metis fighters (NYT)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 15, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
U.S. to Cut Off Cuban Immigration

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 227 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14


The Reagan Administration said today that as of Tuesday it would not allow any
more Cuban immigrants into the United States.

The move virtually ends a once-promising refugee agreement with the Cuban
Government. About 1,000 Cubans, issued visas since the agreement was concluded
in December, were immediately affected. About 300 others have already been
admitted.

The agreement had appeared to clear the way for the entry of up to 20,000 Cuban
refugees a year, as well as 3,000 former political prisoners.

About 2,500 Cubans jailed in the United States were to be taken back by Havana.
They were among 125,000 Cubans who left the island nation in the Mariel boatlift
of 1980.

The agreement also provided for the resumption of processing of visas in Havana
despite the absence of formal dipolmatic relations between the two countries.

Cuba suspended its obligations under the agreement, however, after Radio Marti
began broadcasting. Havana has denounced the broadcasts from the United States
as propaganda.

The State Department said that it had tried to clarify Cuba's intentions but
that ''we have received no indication that Cuba is prepared to resume
implementation at the present time.''

Thus, the announcement said, the United States ''had no choice but to suspend
temporarily preference immigrant visas processing while this situation
persists.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

WNET DRAMA LOOKS AT ANGEL ISLAND

BYLINE: By JOHN J. O'CONNOR

SECTION: Section C; Page 18, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words


LIKE Ellis Island on the East Coast, Angel Island in San Francisco Bay was a
clearing house for immigrants in the first decades of this country. Both
facilities have become symbols of the oppressed being welcomed into the golden
new land of opportunity. Many of their realities, however, were a little more
complicated, considerably less sentimental. ''Paper Angels,'' an hourlong drama
on WNET/13 tonight at 9, considers the Angel Island experience from the vantage
point of a several Chinese men and women, a mere handful plucked from the lists
of 175,000 who passed through between the years of 1910 and 1940.

The year is 1915. Because of the Chinese Exclusion Act, imposed in 1882,
immigration authorities are making it difficult for ordinary laborers to enter
the United States. Immigrants from poor rural communities are forced to buy, at
considerable expense, false identification papers making them ''paper sons''
with a higher social and economic status. They study ''coaching books'' designed
to get them through official interrogations bent on sending them home. Finally
reaching the ''golden mountain'' of the new world, they discover that they might
have to spend weeks, months and, in some cases, years in the barracks of Angel
Island.

Genny Lim, the playwright, is a descendant of two generations of Angel Island
immigrants. Becoming interested in the painful experiences of her family and
other Chinese immigrants, she and two friends - Him Mark Lai and Judy Yung -
published in 1980 a book titled ''Island.'' Her play evolved out of that
project. It was first produced at San Francisco's Asian American Theater
Company, and in 1982 won favorable notices at New York's Federal Theater.
Miranda Barry of public television's American Playhouse series was enthusiastic
and the result, with Phylis Geller as executive producer, is tonight's
presentation.

The original play has been scaled back to an almost impressionistic portrait of
small, fragile lives trying to survive within a hostile system. Directed by John
Lone, whose previous impressive credits include David Henry Hwang's ''Dance and
the Railroad'' at the New York Public Theater, ''Paper Angels'' consists largely
of relatively brief scenes drifting in and around the lives of seven characters.
In the men's barracks, there are Fong (James Hong), a middle-aged man who only
wants to avoid being buried in a pauper's grave; the elderly Chin Gung (Victor
Wong), who returned to China to bring back the wife he left 40 years earlier;
Lee (Ping Wu), a young scholar forced to pose as a merchant's son; and Lum
(David Huang), a cocky rebel unimpressed with menacing officials.

In another section, there are Chin Moo (Beulah Quo), the elderly wife who has
been unexpectedly reunited with her husband; Mei Lai (Joan Chen), the scholar's
traditionally obedient (and pregnant) wife; and Ku Ling (Rosalind Chao),
contemptuous of ''musty superstitions'' and lashing out in hate at those around
her. Each scene reveals still another facet of personality as the characters get
caught up in the peculiar rhythms of their imprisonment. The Americans are not
depicted with much sympathy. They range from the immigration official who
explains that ''you've got to have a system - if you don't they'll take
advantage - next thing you know they'll be bringing over their wives and
children,'' to the ludicrously cheerful missionary determined that she will
baptize the new immigrant ''now that you are American.''

With his very talented cast, Mr. Lone transforms Miss Lim's play into a series
of sharply defined, unusually affecting images. The set is abstract, a few props
and architectural lines defining the necessary spaces as the camera drifts from
one area to another. The music is especially imaginative, delicately
establishing and maintaining the emotional weight of a scene. Lucia Hwong, the
composer, uses a bamboo flute, Chinese lute, percussion and a synthesizer.
Gerald Zelinger gets credit for something described as ''sound design.''

Miss Lim has written about her play: ''It was essential for me to discover and
to articulate the meaning of what went on out there at Angel Island, how it
linked up with the present.'' She and ''Paper Angels'' are well served by this
American Playhouse production.

''Television: Our Life and Times,'' a two-hour compilation on WOR/ Channel 9 at
9 P.M., is purporting to be ''a history of the medium's greatest moments.'' But
like most such anthologies, this one is curiously selective, leaving the viewer
with the uncomfortable impression that much of the content was determined by who
and what was available cheap to the producers.

Written by Larry McCarthy, the On The Air/RKO TV Production, made in association
with Ailes Communications, features Tony Randall as host. Sitting in a studio
about the size of a postage stamp, Mr. Randall presides, with sometimes strained
patience, over clips from ''shows you've probably forgotten and some you never
even knew existed'' to review TV's entertainment record. The program gets off to
a promising start with situation comedies, beginning in 1949 with ''I Remember
Mama,'' in which Dick Van Patten can be seen playing the teenaged son. ''All
musicians are sissies,'' says he. ''Half the princesses in Europe were in love
with Franz Liszt,'' he sister retorts smartly.

After the obligatory testimonials to classics such as ''I Love Lucy'' and ''The
Honeymooners,'' there is an interesting detour to some of the comedians who
thrived on television -Grouch Marx, Ernie Kovacks, Steve Allen - which brings
the subject to Jack Paar, who actually sits down with Mr. Randall for a brief
interview. Clips from some old ''Tonight'' shows, especially those with Jonathan
Winters, are amusing but then we are treated to a long excerpt of Mr. Paar, in
more recent years, telling a not terribly funny story on an interview show
called ''Hour.'' Our anthology is clearly in trouble.

Before long, the titles of shows are whizzing by almost recklessly, listed in
batches under pointless headings. Some milestone series - ''All in the Family''
and ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' - are virtually ignored. Others are barely
mentioned in passing. ''M*A*S*H,'' for instance, pops up briefly in the middle
of a list that includes ''Father Knows Best'' and ''The Andy Griffith Show.''
Then, interviews are inserted at arbitrary points with generally pointless
information. Louise Lasser, looking rather otherworldly, recalls that when she
was approached to star in ''Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman,'' she didn't get the
humor at all and turned the series down five times.

There are bits of practical advice. Garry Marshall, producer of such series as
''Happy Days,'' lists three ingredients for having a TV hit: good writing plus
casting, the proper time slot, and being the right show for the right historical
moment. A final section called ''Strong Opinions,'' includes McLean Stevenson,
who has had several failed sitcoms after walking out of ''M*A*S*H,'' declaring
that ''for the most part, television stinks.'' It is not clear if he was
including ''Television: Our Life and Times'' within his thoughtful appraisal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Victor Wong and James Hong (Mitzi Trumbo)

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
WORDS OF GOD AND EVIL

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: PARIS


A quarter of a million people gathered in Paris Saturday night to hear a rock
concert dedicated to opposing racism in France.

Spring is belated in Europe after a cold winter. But there are stirrings in the
sap of human feeling, just as recent events showed there is still stirring among
the creepy crawlies hidden beneath stones laid upon the past.

The exuberant French demonstration was organized by a movement called ''S.O.S. -
Racism.'' Its slogan is ''Touche pas a mon pote'' (Don't touch my buddy),
written on the drawing of a hand raised in warning but open-palmed in warmth.

The movement is a response to ugly incidents involving the death of some North
African immigrants and their children. And while nonpolitical, it is a response
to the far-right party headed by Jean-Marie Le Pen, which campaigns on the
argument that crime in the streets is due to immigrants, mostly Arabs. Le Pen
appeals to anti-alien, France-for-the-French bigotry.

''S.O.S.'' recognizes that racism is racism, anti-Arab, anti-Semitic,
anti-black, whatever. Marek Halter, a writer and eloquent Jewish spokesman,
joined the young pop stars because he agreed that ''in a world which still bears
the marks of Auschwitz, Hiroshima and the gulag,'' everyday life can nonetheless
be improved by words of friendship. Adherents are mostly the young, aware of the
past, concerned about the present, hopeful for the future.

Recent emanations of the past in other parts of the world underline the
importance of such an impulse, for wherever the future may lead, the past lies
everywhere. It has been wriggling out from tombstones lately, making noises that
show the need for memory as a protection against its repetition.

The investigation of what appear to be the remains of Josef Mengele, the monster
of Auschwitz, is a reminder that Nazi evil lived on well after Adolf Hitler
committed suicide in his Berlin bunker. It matters because the living must know
that pursuit of such evil can never end lest it rise again.

When he laid a wreath at the German military cemetery at Bitburg, Mr. Reagan
spoke of the ''evil totalitarian dictatorship of one man.'' He meant Hitler. He
forgot about Mengele, and many thousands of others, and many millions who echoed
the words of hate that made the evil possible.

Bitburg was a failure of comprehension that one wished to be blown away in the
wind of discussion. But, of course, there has been fallout. An example came in
the mail in the form of a newsletter from Santa Monica, Calif., not from some
dark Bavarian hide-out or some lost Brazilian village but from the area of Mr.
Reagan's sunny ranch.

The heading says it is a monthly newsletter written by Hans Schmidt.

Its title, Ganpac, stands for German-

American National Political Action Committee. It claims to be a federally
registered organization ''defending and representing the interests of the 52
million Americans of German descent.'' Its stated aim is ''to solicit
contributions to support political candidates of our choice.''

The headline is ''8 May 1945 - No

Day To Be Celebrated By Any Western/Christian Nation.'' The message is that
America would be better off today if Nazi Germany had been victorious in World
War II.

''It is safe to assume that 40 years after a German victory, the U.S. would be
in less danger from European attack than it is right now from invasion by
'alien' forces,'' the newsletter says. ''Besides, the invasion by people of
non-European stock (whether illegal or legal) taking place right now ought to be
considered more dangerous than a German invasion would ever have been. The
former is changing the character of America relentlessly and inexorably to the
point where it won't be recognizable in a few decades, while the latter might
have made as little permanent impact as the German occupation of Norway (they
now do drive on the right side of the road!).'' There is a lot more in the same
vein. There is a reference to the ''mythical six million war dead of a tiny
European minority.'' Mr. Schmidt puts the number six million in quotes and does
not mention Jews. In West Germany now, it is punishable by law to cast doubt on
the fact of the Holocaust. Certainly, he doesn't represent Americans of German
origin. He may not represent anybody but a pseudonym of someone calculatingly
outrageous looking for a response, probing to see if there are like-minded
people creeping around who will scuttle to join him. He does seem to have
emerged from under one of those stones Mr. Reagan unwittingly shoved aside in
his attempt to honor a current ally.

Words and gestures do matter, they can foreshadow deeds. It is heartening to see
large numbers of people insisting on good words.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 25, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SOLZHENITSYN SECLUDED AS WIFE BECOMES A CITIZEN

BYLINE: By DUDLEY CLENDINEN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: RUTLAND, Vt., June 24


Natalya Solzhenitsyn came out of the seclusion of the Green Mountains today to
take the oath of United States citizenship, but her husband, Aleksandr, the
exiled Russian author and winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature, remained
behind at the couple's fenced and forested estate 20 miles from here.

A court official, Chris Barber, said she understood that Mr. Solzhenitsyn, the
author of ''The Gulag Archipelago,'' ''Cancer Ward'' and numerous other works,
was ''not feeling well.'' And so he did not appear in the Federal courtroom
where United States District Judge Franklin S. Billings Jr. awaited him, along
with a clutch of Federal marshals, Immigration and Naturalization Service
officers, and three rows of reporters and photographers.

A friend said everyone in the family was well. Asked whether Mr. Solzhenitsyn
had stayed away to stay out of the spotlight or if there was some other problem,
the friend said hesitantly, ''It's hard to say.''

Special Ceremony Arranged

The ceremony had been arranged just for the Solzhenitsyns, who applied for
citizenship late last month after living for almost nine quiet years on their
50-acre estate near Cavendish.

With the rare exceptions of a Harvard commencement address in 1978, the
conferral of an honorary degree by Holy Cross College last year and a bare
handful of selected interviews, Mr. Solzhenitsyn has lived a very private life
since taking up residence in this country, avoiding public appearances or
comment, sometimes leaving his wife to speak for him.

''He feels interviews are a bad form for him,'' his wife explained when the
couple granted the magazine Vermont Life a visit in the fall of 1983. ''It's
because he feels first of all that he's a writer, and that he best expresses
himself in writing.''

As he held back from the public eye once more today, the swearing-in proceeded
without him. The couple's eldest son, Yermolay, 14 years old, sat next to his
mother as Judge Billings told them that he was about to confer ''this nation's
highest and most priceless possession: namely, citizenship in the United States
of America.''

Children Become Citizens

Court officials said the conferral of citizenship on Mrs. Solzhenitsyn would
also apply to her children. She and her husband have three adolescent sons, who
attend public school and live with them on the family's estate. And Mrs.
Solzhenitsyn has a son by a previous marriage living in the United States as
well, Dmitri, who is now about 21.

Mr. Solzhenitsyn, 66, an impassioned critic of the Soviet Union, wrote some of
his most famous works while imprisoned there. He was exiled in February 1974,
and Mrs. Solzhenitsyn shortly followed with their children. The family lived in
Switzerland for more than two years before settling here in 1976.

In his only real public address since then, at the Harvard commencement
exercises in 1978, Mr. Solzhenitsyn turned a critical eye on Western society.
''A loss of courage may be the most striking fact which an outside observer
notices in the West in our days,'' he said. He heaped criticism on living habits
that he said had been shaped by ''the revolting invasion of publicity, by TV
stupor, and by intolerable music.''

Decades of suffering in Eastern Europe, he said, had created ''larger, deeper
and more interesting characters than those generated by standardized Western
well-being.''

Avoidance of Publicity

Since that sally, Mr. Solzhenitsyn has avoided public pronouncements, working
long days in his writing studio next to the family's large, comfortable frame
house on his projected eight-volume work on Russian history.

The couple has never ceased to miss their native country, Mrs. Solzhenitsyn said
in the Vermont Life interview in 1983.

At the conclusion of the ceremony today, Mrs. Solzhenitsyn carried her
certificate of citizenship back to her son with a broad smile. But she remained
private about their reasons for applying for it.

''It's an important moment in my life that I would like to share with family and
friends,'' she said.

Mr. Solzhenitsyn's certificate of citizenship would wait, court officials said,
until he arranged another time to take the oath so he could claim it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Natalya Solhenitsyn and son, Yermolay (UPI)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING;
Statue of Liberty Coins

BYLINE: By James F. Clarity and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 168 words


The United States Mint is preparing preliminary designs for a series of three
commemorative coins that could raise as much as $137.5 million to help pay for
restoration of the Statue of Liberty and the immigration museum on Ellis Island.

Congress has authorized the striking of 500,000 $5 gold pieces that would sell
for $150 each, 10 million silver dollars costing collectors $20 each and 25
million copper-nickel 50-cent pieces costing $6 each. The legislation is
awaiting President Reagan's signature, and White House reaction thus far has
been consistently favorable. The proposed selling prices of the three series,
which could vary somewhat with the market, include surcharges of $35, $7 and $2
respectively that would go directly to the Statue of Liberty project. The coins
would be legal tender, spendable anywhere in the country at their face value,
only because collectors have sometimes been reluctant to acquire commemorative
medallions that are not officially part of the currency system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 4, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THE IMMIGRANT INFLUX STUDIED ON CHANNEL 13

BYLINE: By JOHN CORRY

SECTION: Section C; Page 16, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 370 words


''DREAMS OF DISTANT SHORES'' begins, appropriately, by quoting Abraham Lincoln:
''Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves.'' Latter-day
ideologists may interpret that to their own ends, but surely it applies to
America and her immigrants. ''Dreams of Distant Shores,'' on Channel 13 today at
6 P.M., examines the immigrant experience.

From 1890 to 1915, more than 17 million immigrants arrived here in what was
presumably the largest mass migration in history. The 30-minute documentary,
adroitly mixing old motion pictures and still photographs, looks at what the
immigrants left, and, more important, what they found.

What most found first, of course, was Ellis Island. The documentary, narrated by
James Whitmore, uses some wonderful old photographs: uniformed Ellis Island
officials, anxious immigrants. Meanwhile, Mr. Whitmore offers intelligent
commentary.

Thus, he notes that the immigrants may have been tired, hungry and poor, ''but
wretched refuse - never.'' They had found the strength, courage and imagination
to flee pogroms, famine and misery. Approaching Ellis Island by ship, however,
they were swept by a single, terrible question: Who would be admitted and who
would not?

In fact, few were turned away. The documentary - produced by Cinema 60 and
written by John T. Cunningham - puts the figure at only 2 percent. An incurable
eye disease could lead to instant rejection. Heart ailments, tuberculosis and
other diseases apparently could, too. Immigrants were also asked some two dozen
questions. The most important was, ''Have you been promised a job?''

This was tricky. It was illegal to import foreign labor into the United States.
On the other hand, the immigant had to appear to be employable. The safest
answer was, ''I intend to look for work.''

''Dreams of Distant Shores,'' directed by Michael Laurence, isn't sentimental
about all this. It notes that the immigrants, most from Eastern and Southern
Europe, often found sweatshops and tenements after Ellis Island. Their lives may
not have been great, but in the absence of looting, killing and famine, they had
the freedom to make them better. ''Dreams of Distant Shores'' is an appropriate
program for today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

'YOU'RE IN AMERICA'

BYLINE: By Albert J. Parisi

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 5, Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 364 words


In doing research, a reporter tries to draw information from all available
sources. One of the sources for the Ellis Island article was my uncle, Joseph
Parisi, a retired paving contractor from the Bergen County community of Rochelle
Park.

As a teen-ager in 1912, he had come with his father - my grandfather -to the
United States from Santa Croce Camerina, a poor village in southern Sicily. They
sought work here to support my grandmother and other members of the family in
Sicily.

In May, Uncle Joe and I spoke of his recollections of Ellis Island. On June 13,
he died. He was 85 years old.

He told me of the two-week-long ocean voyage in steerage and of the processing
at Ellis Island.

As Uncle Joe and his father were going through immigration, he noticed another
family becoming separated for reasons that were unclear to him at the time, and
he feared that he and my grandfather would be separated as well.

Immigration officials, Uncle Joe recalled, kept a close eye on the lines of
immigrants climbing the stairs to the Great Hall. Many were singled out, he
said, by officials who put chalk marks on their clothing: ''H'' for possible
heart ailment for those out of breath as they reached the top, ''L'' for
lameness and an ''X'' wihin a circle for possible mental disorder.

''They [the immigration officials] made us sit down and wait,'' he said, ''and
then a man came over and ordered my father to go with him. I thought that they
were going to send him back to the other side [Sicily] and I started crying.''

An immigration official spoke to my uncle in Italian and assured him that his
father would be returned to him soon. Within the hour, they were reunited.

My uncle told me that his father ''had been to America before to work.''

''So when we got to the Battery,'' my uncle said, ''the first thing that he [his
father] did was take me over to a fruit stand and buy me a banana. I'd never
seen a banana before in my life, so I started biting into it, peel and all.

'' 'No,' he said to me, 'you are in America now. In America, you eat it like
this.' And then he peeled it for me.

''My father smiled, and I knew that everything would be all right.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

'ANXIETY, NOT FEAR'

BYLINE: By Albert J. Parisi

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 4, Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 581 words


''MY God in Heaven, how vast and beautiful this place is where we are to start
our lives anew.' ''

Carl Kroboth, now a retired knitting-mill worker from Maywood, recalled that
those were his words when he got to Ellis Island from Austria 55 years ago. With
him at the time were his wife, Anna, and two young children.

Unlike many immigrants who passed through Ellis Island in the early part of the
century, the Kroboths felt anxiety, but no fear.

''We were very young back then,'' Mrs. Kroboth said, ''and when you are very
young, you have no fear.''

She was 23 and her husband had just turned 25.

''We were sick on the boat coming over,'' Mrs. Kroboth recalled, ''and when you
can't speak English, it is difficult. We couldn't ask for food -we took what
they gave us - and when we arrived on Ellis Island I remember the waiting in
line and the questions. God, so many questions!''

Like millions of other immigrants, the Kroboths were asked questions such as:

''Where were you born? Where are you going? Do you have relatives in America?
Have you a trade? Is anyone coming to meet you on Ellis Island? Do you have any
money? Have you a criminal record?''

The questions answered, the Kroboths waited on a wooden bench with other
families for the ferry to Battery Park.

''We were tired,'' Mrs. Kroboth said, ''and the children, then 2 and 3, were in
my arms. Someone in a uniform came up to me with a bag and smiled.

''It was full of sandwiches and oranges. I felt bad because I didn't know how to
say 'Thank You' in English. I didn't have to because I smiled in return, and the
person understood.''

Rosalind Trotman, 85, of Hackensack was afraid that, in the eyes of the
examiners, she had answered some questions wrong. In 1920, at the age of 20, she
had left her native Bermuda to start a new life with an aunt in the United
States.

''I was very nervous, and the longer I waited, the more nervous I became,'' said
Mrs. Trotman, a retired factory worker. ''After answering all of their
questions, they told me to sit down and wait, and I waited and waited. Finally,
they said it was all right, and they put me on a ferry to New York.''

Of the 17 million people who came to Ellis Island, some 250,000 were sent back
to their homelands for health reasons, because they had criminal records or for
other reasons, according to immigration records. About 3,000 people, according
to unofficial records, committed suicide on the island.

In addition to the fixtures that have survived vandalism and the elements, there
are also human notes to be preserved: graffiti in many languages scrawled and
still legible on walls, engraved by penknife on pillars and posts and
meticulously etched on lavatory dividers.

Translated and paraphrased, one such inscription - it is in Chinese characters
and was discovered in a lavatory of the main building -reads:

''I am suffering in this immigration building ''And I do not know what to do, so
I just wait.

''I suffered here before and I suffer here now, and I ''Think that I will be a
long time suffering. ''But I suffer not like I may suffer if I were back on the
ship, ''Where they might hurt me if I were to return.

''Do not be afraid of the tough immigration laws.

''Finally, I and the others shall be free and settle in peace.''

The anonymous graffiti is said to have been written between 1910 and 1920 by a
Chinese seaman who jumped ship in New York Harbor, seeking sanctuary. It is not
known whether he was allowed to stay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 7, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

14 JAIL GUARDS AND 12 INMATES INJURED IN FIGHT IN BROOKLYN

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 19, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 341 words


Fourteen city corrections officers and 12 inmates awaiting deportation to Cuba
were injured yesterday during a disturbance at a Brooklyn jail, a Correction
Department spokesman said.

The fight, which lasted about 10 minutes, took place in a dormitory at the
Brooklyn Correctional Facility, which is not designed for inmates who pose a
high security risk, said the spokesman, Ed Hershey.

However, he said the inmates involved in the fight, 12 of a group of 18 that the
city was keeping in temporary custody for Federal immigration authorities, may
have included prisoners with serious criminal records who warranted closer
supervision.

It was the most serious incident involving a group of inmates in the city
correctional system in five years, Mr. Hershey said.

''This was an inappropriate bunch to be giving us,'' Mr. Hershey said. ''It's
not the kind of place where you put your heavy hitters.''

The incident began at 7:20 A.M. when the 18 inmates refused a guard's
instructions to line up, Mr. Hershey said. One of the inmates threw a punch at
the guard, which set off the disturbance, he said.

No Serious Injuries

An additional 15 guards were called to the scene to end the fight, Mr. Hershey
said.

Fourteen of the officers were taken to Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn,
where they were treated for minor injuries and released.

The inmates were transferred to the custody of the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service. They were transported to Bayley Seton Hospital on Staten
Island, where they were treated and released into Federal custody.

The prisoners had been held by the Correction Department as part of an agreement
last year between the city and the Federal Government in which the brig of the
Brooklyn Navy Yard was turned over to New York City to be used as a jail.

The city agreed to provide space at the jail for up to 140 people in custody of
the immigration service. The first of those people arrived at the Brooklyn jail
when the agreement went into effect last Monday, Mr. Hershey said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Agency Delays Housing Deportees At Jail in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By United Press International

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 24, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 284 words


The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service will wait until October to
use a city jail in Brooklyn where 18 Cubans awaiting deportation fought with
guards on July 6, according to city officials.

The Federal agency has agreed to insure that a representative mix of inmates
awaiting deportation are sent to the jail, the Brooklyn Correction Center at the
site of the former Brooklyn Navy Yard brig in the Fort Greene section, said a
spokesman for the city Correction Department, Edward Hershey.

A joint training program for the Federal and city agencies will also be
instituted, he said.

''We had originally planned to start using the facility July 1, but because of
budget problems we told the city we would wait until October,'' said James
Jasey, the deputy district director of the Immigration Service.

Lack of Time Cited

He said an unexpected influx of Cuban detainees forced the agency to begin
housing them at the Brooklyn facility last week.

''We didn't have the time to iron out the problems,'' Mr. Jasey said. ''We need
to work with the city department to develop better communication so we get to
know each other better.''

The city bought the old Navy brig from the Federal Government in February. Under
the terms of the sale agreement, the Immigration Service has the right to send
detainees to the facility.

Eight guards and 18 inmates were slightly injured in the melee on July 6, which
lasted about 15 minutes, Mr. Hershey said. The inmates were transferred to an
Immigration Service detention center.

The trouble was sparked by the refusal of an inmate to get in line for a roll
call. It was the first serious outbreak in a city correctional facility in five
years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 21, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HAWAII HONORS JAPANESE COMMUNITY

BYLINE: By WALLACE TURNER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: HONOLULU


In 1937, when Lieut. Col. George S. Patton Jr. was the chief of Army
intelligence in Hawaii, he drew up an emergency plan that called for holding 128
leading citizens of Honolulu hostage so as to control the Japanese here, who
were a third of the population.

The Patton plan, which would have had soldiers arresting Japanese community
leaders at their homes at night, was never used. But some 700 Japanese in Hawaii
were interned after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. The
others were not interned, unlike 110,000 Japanese on the Pacific Coast, many of
whom were citizens born in the United States.

Michael Slackman, a Hawaii historian, discovered the Patton plan in the National
Archives in 1983 and wrote about it last year in Biography, a publication of the
University of Hawaii.

The plan and what it tells of the islands' recent history is noteworthy as
Hawaii celebrates the centennial of the immigration of Japanese plantation
workers, whose children and grandchildren have become the dominant ethnic group
in Hawaii. In that community of Japanese ancestry, those who came as immigrants
were known as issei, the first generation born in the United States were called
nisei and the second generation of Americans were termed sansei.

Commemorative Meetings

In June the Japanese Government sent Prince Hitachi, the second son of Emperor
Hirohito, and Princess Hanako, the Prince's wife, to take part in commemorative
meetings here.

''I am deeply moved by the proud achievements of the Japanese and
Japanese-Americans of Hawaii,'' the Prince said in a speech in Japanese, which
most members of his audience were able to follow.

At most of the functions he attended, Prince Hitachi was accompanied by Hawaii's
Governor, George R. Ariyoshi, the son of a Japanese sumo wrestler who immigrated
to Hawaii to open a store to sell bean curd.

Hawaii's two United States Senators, Daniel K. Inouye and Spark M. Matsunaga,
are sons of Japanese cane field workers. Other nisei or sansei hold top
positions throughout government here and in business and professional life as
well.

In the early 1880's King David Kalakaua, pushed by the cane planters who wanted
fresh supplies of plantation labor, pressed the Japanese Government to approve
immigration of its people.

At one point the Polynesian King proposed that his 9-year-old niece, Princess
Kaiulani, be betrothed to the 15-year-old Japanese Crown Prince. The Japanese
declined.

The first 944 Japanese to come here under a contract between the Kingdom of
Hawaii and the Japanese Government arrived on the steam-and-sail bark City of
Tokio on Feb. 8, 1885.

'Gentlemen's Agreement'

The government-sponsored immigration from Japan stopped in 1894 after revolution
toppled the Hawaiian monarchy, but Japanese laborers continued to come until a
''gentlemen's agreement'' of 1907 between the United States and the Japanese
Government stopped them.

After that, only wives and children of residents here were allowed to come here.
More than 14,000 ''picture brides'' came before immigration was stopped totally
in 1924. In all, 220,000 Japanese landed here. Subsequently, thousands returned
home or moved on to the American West Coast.

Those who stayed endured second-class status in race-conscious Hawaii while
businessmen ran public affairs until after World War II.

In World War II the Japanese-American units from Hawaii distinguished themselves
in combat in Europe, where they suffered heavy losses. After the war, thousands
used their G.I. Bill benefits to attend professional schools on the mainland.

On returning home, many took up political careers in the Democratic Party. Those
of Japanese ancestry in the islands then, and now, identified the Republican
Party with the business interests they looked upon as their oppressors.

In 1954 the Democrats won control of the territorial government as John A. Burns
built a coalition in which the Japanese-Americans and organized labor were the
strongest elements. It elected Mr. Burns Governor for 12 years, and then Mr.
Ariyoshi, who must leave office at the end of 1987, for another 12 years.

Racial Cohesiveness

A strong racial cohesiveness has marked the century of the Japanese in Hawaii.
They send their children to special schools after public school hours to learn
Japanese, to study Japanese ethical standards and to reinforce their sense of
separateness, In 1980 there were about 246,000 people of Japanese ancestry in
Hawaii, and 215,000 of them said they had no ancestry of any other race. By
contrast, more than half the 91,000 Hawaii Chinese said they had non-Chinese
ancestors.

About 125,000 of the Japanese-Americans here said they spoke fluent Japanese.

In the last 20 years this bilingual ability has become a valuable asset as
tourism from Japan became an important asset to Hawaii's business community.
Japanese from the home islands have made major investments here and, among other
things, own most of the hotels on Waikiki Beach.

In his 12 years in office, Governor Ariyoshi has led several successful trade
missions to Japan, where he is in demand as a speaker because of his fluency in
Japanese.

There are signs of erosion in this cohesion. Fewer young people are fluent in
Japanese. Where a few years ago two-thirds of the children born to mothers of
Japanese ancestry had such fathers, now fewer than half do.

Heavy migration to Hawaii from the United States mainland over the last 15 years
also is eroding the numerical dominance of the Japanese-American community,
which has given them political strength.

When Colonel Patton drew up his hostage plan in 1937, those of Japanese ancestry
made up 34 percent of the population. But by 1983, the last year for which
figures are available, they were down to 23 percent. They had been surpassed by
Caucasians, at 24.5 percent, and were being crowded in numbers by Hawaiians and
part-Hawaiians, at 20 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Prince Hitachi and his wife, Princes Hanako in Honolulu; Photo
of Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii; Photo of Gov. George R. Ariyoshi (AP;NYT)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 30, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Ukrainian Youth Subject Of New Round in Court

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 29


A Federal district judge ruled today that the parents of Walter Polovchak, 17
years old, were free to take their son to the Soviet Union, but the Justice
Department filed a motion to delay the order pending an appeal.

Judge Thomas McMillen issued a preliminary injunction preventing the immigration
service from enforcing its order of January 1982 barring anyone from taking the
youth away against his wishes. Shortly afterward, the Justice Department filed a
motion to keep the Polovchaks from taking their son back.

Julian Kulas, who is representing the Ukrainian youth, also said he planned an
appeal. If the youth returns to the Soviet Union, he will be placed ''in prison,
a gulag or a psychiatric ward,'' Mr. Kulas said. Harvey Grossman, an American
Civil Liberties Union lawyer, said Michael and Anna Polovchak, ''want to be able
to consult with their child free from Government intervention.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 30, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

COURT RULES AGENTS VIOLATED NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER'S RIGHTS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 29


A Federal judge awarded $295,000 to a news photographer and a Spanish-language
newspaper today, finding that agents for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service had intentionally interfered with the First Amendment rights of the man,
who is a resident alien from Mexico.

The photographer, Octavio Gomez, had said that agents pulled him aside, took
away his camera and demanded his immigration papers when he tried to take
photographs of other agents breaking up a 1981 demonstration against the
service's treatment of Salvadoran refugees. A week later, Mr. Gomez said, agents
did the same thing when he tried to photograph them conducting a neighborhood
sweep for illegal aliens.

Mr. Gomez and the publisher of his newspaper, La Opinion, complained to the
United States Attorney in Los Angeles, who promised an investigation. La
Opinion, the largest Spanish-language daily in the United States, later
published a front-page story on the announced investigation. On the same day,
immigration agents conducted a sweep around La Opinion's offices in downtown Los
Angeles and arrested and deported two contractors working for the newspaper.

Interfered With Rights

''The right of a newspaper and a newspaperman were interfered with in a very
serious way, and it was done intentionally,'' said Federal District Judge
Mariana Pfaelzer. ''There was a clear attempt to keep the newspaper from taking
pictures. That's what runs throughout the case.''

The judge ordered that two agents pay punitive damages of $15,000 and $5,000 and
that the Federal Government pay $100,000 to the newspaper and $175,000 to Mr.
Gomez.

Michael Lightfoot, the attorney for Mr. Gomez and the newspaper, asserted that
the actions of the agents interfered with the photographer's First Amendment
right to gather the news and his Fourth Amendment right to be free from
unreasonable seizure.

''The picture presented by the testimony is the perfect example of the type of
bombast and bullying by law enforcement officers that chills our liberties and
chills our freedom,'' Mr. Lightfoot said in his closing argument.

Agents Said Just Doing Jobs

Stephen O'Neil, an assistant United States attorney, asserted that the actions
of the agents were in keeping with this country's immigration laws. Mr. O'Neil
said that agents are entitled to ask a resident alien for his immigration papers
and were simply doing their job when they asked Mr. Gomez for identification.
Mr. O'Neil also said the sweep around the offices of La Opinion was merely
coincidental with the publication of the story. ''It's much ado about nothing,''
he said in his closing arguments.

Mr. O'Neil said he had not yet decided whether to appeal the ruling.

The incidents underlying the decision began in 1981 when churchwomen
demonstrated against immigration policies involving Salvadorans. The women
formed a ring around an I.N.S. van leaving immigration service offices in Los
Angeles, and Mr. Gomez tried to take photographs of agents pushing the women out
of the way.

Press Identification Refused

Mr. Gomez testified that a hand was put over his camera and that agents pulled
him away from the demonstration. They asked for his identification and he
presented four pieces of press identification that had hung around his neck. He
testified that they had refused that identification and had demanded his green
card, which states he is a permanent resident alien.

When he presented his green card, the agent told him he could have been deported
and also told him that henceforth he would be on ''limited status.'' Evidence
during the trial showed that a resident alien who does not carry a green card is
subect only to a fine and that there is no such I.N.S. designation as ''limited
status.''

In a second incident the same week, Mr. Gomez testified that he followed an
immigration van and took pictures of the agents arresting a man who had tried to
flee on his bicycle. One of the agents involved in the first incident recognized
him, said he had Mr. Gomez's file, and again demanded to see his green card.

His camera was taken away and another agent threatened to ''break your camera
and break your face'' if he took any more photographs.

In the ruling today, Judge Pfaelzer said: ''I cannot look at it as a series of
isolated incidents. The conduct was outrageous and it was intentional.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 4, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

INFORMERS ARE ASSAILED IN REFUGEE-HARBORING CASE

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, July 30


Members of the church-based movement to provide sanctuary to refugees have asked
for a Federal inquiry into the activities of informers used by the Government to
infiltrate churches and make secret tape recordings of the movement's meetings.

As a result of the nine-month undercover operation, 16 people, including Roman
Catholic priests, nuns and Protestant ministers, were charged in January with 71
counts of conspiracy and illegally transporting and harboring refugees from
Central America. Two subsequently pleaded guilty to lesser charges, and the
charges against two others were dropped because of illness. Trial for the
remaining 12 is to begin here Oct. 15.

From the beginning, the defendants have argued that the infiltration of the
churches violated their religious freedom. The Government, so far upheld by the
court, has argued the churches were no more than meeting places for planning
sessions.

Provision of Prostitutes Alleged

Now defense lawyers maintain that one of the informers, Salomon Delgado Graham,
a Mexican national with a criminal record of illegal entry and alien smuggling,
also has a history of providing prostitutes to field workers and may have
perjured himself when he swore in an affidavit that he had never done that.

Mr. Graham, who is in his mid-30's and also uses the name Salmon Graham Delgado,
was paid $7,250 for his work in infiltrating the sanctuary movement, when he
used the alias Jose Morales, according to court records.

Jesus Cruz, the other informer, who is about 60 years old and used his real name
while posing as a sympathetic volunteer in the sanctuary movement, was paid
$9,196.

Recruited in 1980

Both men were recruited as informers by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service after they were implicated in commercial alien smuggling operations in
Arizona and Florida in 1980. Both have worked as paid Government informers in
smuggling operations since then, according to testimony and court records.

However, in the sanctuary case, their targets were not smugglers-for-hire but
church workers who maintain they acted out of religous conviction and a belief
that migrants from Central Americans, primarily Salvadorans, were forced to flee
their native countries by political persecution and violence abetted in part by
United States policy and aid to Central America used for military purposes.

The Government, whose case rests in part on about 100 hours of tape recordings
made by the two informers and one or more immigration agents, denies there are
any political or religious components to its prosecution of the sanctuary
workers, maintaining that they are being treated as ordinary alien smugglers.

Last week, Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll accepted the Government's
position that any interference with religious practices was ''minimal and
incidental.'' He barred any introduction of arguments in the trial as to
religious motivation. Earlier he rejected a defense motion to dismiss the case
on the ground of Government misconduct.

As part of that motion, however, the defense included an affidavit maintaining
that while Mr. Graham was a Government informer and before his recruitment in
1980, he was ''a pimp'' who took prostitutes to the fields. Mr. Graham denied
this in an affidavit.

'Matter Was Investigated'

Donald M. Reno Jr., a special assistant United States attorney who is in charge
of the Government's case, said in a telephone interview, ''The matter was
investigated and as a result of that investigation no action was taken by the
Government.''

The defense has renewed a request through Mr. Reno's office for an investigation
into the informers' activities. Mr. Reno said he had told the defense that it
could bring forward witnesses if it wanted to pursue the matter.

Judge Carroll suggested that in the trial ''days and days will be spent on
trying the credibility of the informers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 7, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. HALTS EFFORTS TO DEPORT OUSTED ANTI-SANDINISTA

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has halted deportation proceedings
against a Nicaraguan exile dismissed from the the largest anti-Sandinista rebel
force for criticizing the Central Intelligence Agency.

In a letter to the exile, Edgar Chamorro, at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla.,
last week, the Miami office of the I.N.S. said that its letter of June 26
advising him that ''exclusion proceedings'' had begun was erroneous and should
be disregarded.

Perry Rivkind, the I.N.S. district director, said in a telephone interview from
Miami today that he had stopped the proceedings after learning that Mr. Chamorro
had a valid visa and also a preferential claim to permanent United States
residence because his sister is an American citizen.

''Mr. Chamorro brought this on himself by not coming forward with this
information before,'' Mr. Rivkind said. ''He was more interested in politicking
than in dealing with his own immigration status.''

Political Motivation Denied

The June 26 letter, sent in Mr. Rivkind's name, was written a few days after Mr.
Chamorro wrote opinion articles for The New York Times and The Miami Herald in
which he argued against expansion of the war in Nicaragua and said the United
States should concentrate more on helping moderate opposition political leaders
than on running ''proxy armies.''

Mr. Rivkind acknowledged that it was the articles in the two newspapers that
drew his attention to Mr. Chamorro, but he said it was not politics that had
motivated him. He said the Herald article, in addition to the political
commentary, included the information that Mr. Chamorro's work permit had been
revoked. This is normally done after a request for asylum has been denied, he
said, so he began to check Mr. Chamorro's I.N.S. file and found that asylum had
been denied six months earlier.

The immigration official said he knew when he sent the June letter to Mr.
Chamorro that it was a ''politically sensitive'' issue. ''Someone in the office
said why didn't I just put it away and forget it,'' he said, ''but it was a
violation of the law. It would have been the cowardly thing to do.''

Lawyer Provides Information

After that letter was sent, he said, a lawyer for Mr. Chamorro came forward with
the information that Mr. Chamorro's sister, Blanca Chamorro, was a United States
citizen. Mr. Rivkind said this meant Mr. Chamorro could probably obtain
permanent residence within a few months.

Mr. Chamorro, a former public relations man with family ties to prominent
members of the Sandinista Government in Nicaragua as well as the opposition,
left Nicaragua in June 1979, a month before the fall of President Anastasio
Somoza Debayle. Late in 1982 he was named to the seven-man directorate of the
Nicaraguan Democratic Force, now the largest of the rebel organizations.

Mr. Chamorro said his appointment to the group's leadership had been arranged by
a man who telephoned and said he spoke ''in the name of the Government of the
United States.'' Mr. Chamorro was placed in charge of public relations for the
rebel group and set up offices in Miami and Tegucigalpa, the capital of
Honduras, the rebels' military staging area. He said the C.I.A. paid him $2,000
a month in salary plus expenses.

Differences Over Manual

However, Mr. Chamorro said he had strong differences with the C.I.A. over
preparation of a psychological warfare manual that he said recommended hiring
professional criminals and advocated killing some opponents of the Sandinistas
in order to create martyrs. After the manual became public late in 1984, Mr.
Chamorro answered questions from journalists about how it was prepared and was
subsequently dismissed from his position in the Democratic Force.

Mr. Chamorro said he applied for political asylum in the United States in
February 1980 and was given ''parole'' status pending resolution of his request.
After he began working for the Democratic Force, he said, the C.I.A. gave him
travel documents to use for his frequent trips between Honduras and Miami.

In February 1984, he said, the C.I.A. requested that he return the special
travel documents and gave him, instead, a Nicaraguan passport containing his
photograph and biographical information. Then, with the help of the C.I.A. in
Tegucigalpa, he said, he obtained a United States visa valid until Nov. 30,
1987.

Mr. Chamorro said he assumed that visa was still valid when he began receiving
letters from Mr. Rivkind's office last year that indicated the I.N.S. had no
information on the existence of the visa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Edward Chamorro

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 21, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Topics;
Reverberations Ha-gen-da-tsu

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 174 words


In 1960, a Polish immigrant named Reuben Mattus needed a luxurious-sounding name
for his rich new American ice cream - something evocative, exotic. He settled on
Haagen-Dazs, meaning it to sound cold, clear and Danish. The ice cream is
genuine, the name artificial. It means nothing in English or Danish; the umlaut
doesn't even exist in the Danish alphabet. But the name helped produce the
desired response. The ice cream was a rapid success.

If Haagen-Dazs means nothing in either Danish or English, think how much less it
means in Japanese. Yet in Japan, Ha-gen-da-tsu has an appealing, exotic ring,
too. It has become a food fashion triumph. ''I guess people who chase after
fashion like this ice cream,'' a young man told Susan Chira of The Times.

What a remarkable picture: Japanese yuppies lined up outside red-and-white ice
cream shops to buy a Polish-American ice cream with an invented Danish name.
Only in America, one might say, except that the whole world now seems to have
learned the language of the upscale young consumer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. CLERICS DEBATING ETHICS OF GIVING SANCTUARY TO ALIENS

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2057 words


Although providing sanctuary to those in danger is a tradition as old as the
Bible, religious leaders are debating whether American churches and synagogues
are justified in harboring aliens from Central America.

More than 200 churches and synagogues, from Grace Baptist Church in San Jose,
Calif., and Riverside Church at 122d Street in Manhattan, to Temple Beth El in
Madison, Wis., have declared themselves sanctuaries for such people in this
country illegally.

Supporters argue that those involved have reclaimed an ancient tradition to meet
the needs of people fleeing the turmoil in El Salvador and Guatemala. Many
sanctuary workers acknowledge they are breaking United States laws but argue
that they are involved in a form of civil disobedience in keeping with a higher
religious law.

American Tradition Cited

''The glory of the American immigration tradition is that we opened the Golden
Door to people of many different persuasions,'' said the Rev. Dr. Donald W.
Shriver Jr., president of Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan. ''If the
Golden Door is being unjustly closed, then we feel obliged to open the church
door to them.''

But critics say the idea of sanctuary is being subverted for political purposes
by opponents of the Reagan Administration's immigration and Central American
policies. In a democracy, these critics say, religious people should work to
change laws rather than break them.

''You should not pull out all the sacred stops on the churchly organ for every
little partisan cause you want to advance,'' said the Rev. Richard John Neuhaus,
a theologian, author and Lutheran minister. ''It makes people cynical about the
church.''

The arguments on both sides have been laid out in journals and church documents
with restraint and a good measure of sympathy for the refugees and those who
have helped them. While several national religious organizations have spoken out
on the issue, the majority of local churches and synagogues have not taken
sides.

There are 237 houses of worship that have declared themselves sanctuaries,
according to the Chicago Religious Task Force on Central America, a national
coordinating body that helps match refugees with interested churches or
synagogues. About 1,000 aliens, often traveling as families, have been sheltered
since the first church declared sanctuary in March 1982, according to the task
force.

Religious workers provide the aliens with food, clothing and other personal
needs, such as arranging medical services and schooling for youngsters. Families
often take up residence in the basement of the house of worship and venture out
with the assistance and protection of members of the congregation. After a time,
the refugees may either move on to another sanctuary or be absorbed into a local
community where many illegal aliens are already living.

In the handful of cases in Texas and Arizona where sanctuary workers and aliens
have been arrested, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have
apprehended the suspects in transit to or from the sanctuary. Duke Austin, a
spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said the agency's
longstanding policy had been to avoid going into churches to make arrests. ''We
know we could,'' he said. ''Legally, there is no question. But we do not think
it is productive. We have enough illegal aliens outside of churches.''

Policy on Arrests

Sanctuary advocates, however, say the Federal agency is trying to protect its
image. ''The I.N.S. doesn't want to mess with the bad publicity that it would
bring if they went into sanctified buildings and pulled people out,'' said Lee
Holstein, a staff member at the Chicago task force.

Twelve church workers are scheduled to stand trial in October for transporting
aliens and sheltering them in an Arizona church. In a ruling last month in
Phoenix, Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll said he would not allow
religious motivation as a defense.

There is no statute that makes churches a place of refuge, according to Ignatius
Bau, a San Francisco lawyer who has just completed ''This Ground Is Holy,'' a
book on the history of sanctuary to be published by Paulist Press.

The defendants in the Arizona case, like those in a case in Texas, contend that
their actions are protected by their right to free exercise of religion under
the First Amendment, a point supported by Dr. Shriver of Union Theological
Seminary.

Religious Point of View

''The religious point of sanctuary is that no human being belongs completely to
the secular order,'' said Dr. Shriver. ''The religious order has responsibility
for protection where the secular fails.''

Dr. Shriver said he supported the sanctuary movement because of what he called
an inconsistency in the application of the immigration laws that grants asylum
for refugees from certain countries like Vietnam or the Soviet Union but not
from El Salvador or Guatemala.

Advocates of offering sanctuary say Central American refugees should qualify
under the Refugee Act of 1980, which grants asylum on the grounds of
''persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution'' at home. The United States
Government, which contends that the aliens are basically fleeing poverty, not
persecution, has deported many of them to their countries of origin.

The sanctuary tradition has its roots in biblical times, when people being
pursued in vengeance found safety in special ''cities of refuge'' established by
Moses. In the Middle Ages, criminals were safe even from kings when they entered
the gates of the monastery. In the days before the Civil War, runaway slaves
were protected in the churches that were links in the underground railroad.

Providing safe haven for those in danger is such an integral part of religious
tradition that it takes its name from the most sacred part of a church - the
sanctuary.

View of Holocaust Survivor

The author Elie Wiesel, a survivor of the Nazi Holocaust, said sanctuary had its
roots in the Book of Numbers, where Moses is commanded to set aside ''cities of
refuge'' for a person who kills another by accident and has to flee relatives
bent on vengeance.

''These six cities,'' the Bible says in Numbers 35:15, ''shall be for refuge for
the people of Israel, and for the stranger and for the sojourner among them,
that any one who kills any person without intent may flee there.''

Mr. Wiesel said that he had ''great compassion'' for the Central American
refugees, adding, ''I, too, was a refugee.''

But, Mr. Wiesel said he did not favor breaking United States law by harboring
the refugees in places of worship. ''We should walk within the law and, if need
be, change the law,'' he said. ''In fascist countries it is legal and adequate
to break the law, but we have not reached that point.''

The mainstream Protestant churches, led by the 32-denomination National Council
of Churches, support the sanctuary movement. Among the denominations that have
passed resolutions in favor of sanctuary are the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A),
the Disciples of Christ, the United Methodist Church, the United Church of
Christ, the American Lutheran Church and the American Baptist Churches.

The National Conference of Catholic Bishops has expressed sympathy for the
suffering of Latin American refugees but has not taken a position on sanctuary.

Attitude of Archbishop

Some Roman Catholic bishops, such as Archbishop Rembert Weakland of Milwaukee,
have declared their churches sanctuaries. ''Sanctuary is not really a way of
avoiding justice,'' the Archbishop said, ''but a holy respite so that true
justice can eventually be done.''

Archbishop Weakland, who once served as the head of a Benedictine monastery,
said he was strongly influenced by his religious order.

''The Benedictine tradition from its beginning in the sixth century was to
accept all those who knocked on the door of the monastery seeking shelter and
food,'' he said. ''No questions were asked, and one was to treat each guest as
Christ.''

In the Middle Ages, the institution of sanctuary, while sometimes abused, helped
prevent an excessive use of capital punishment, sometimes for minor crimes, and
safeguarded against execution without trial. Sanctuary was seen as protection
from the absolute rule of kings.

Christian sanctuaries were first recognized by Roman law toward the end of the
fourth century. This was later adopted into English common law. In English law a
person accused of a felony could take refuge in a church for up to 40 days,
after which time he would have to confess or face trial. The provision was
abolished in the 18th century.

The National Association of Evangelicals, representing 42 denominations, also
has not taken a formal position on sanctuary. ''Unofficially, I think that our
people would not support the sanctuary movement,'' said the Rev. Billy A.
Melvin, executive director of the association. ''Evangelicals feel that there is
a proper way to address the problem - through the law.''

Defiance of Slavery Acts

Sanctuary advocates point out that those Northerners who defied the Fugitive
Slave Acts in the days before the Civil War were also operating outside the law.
Churches were an important part of this secret network of stops in flight from
slavery in the Southern states to freedom in the North or Canada.

During the Vietnam War there were several instances when draft evaders and
military deserters found refuge in churches. But the aegis of the church did not
always inhibit the civil authorities.

In May 1968 Federal marshals carried a convicted draft evader away from the
altar of the Arlington Street Church in Boston. The man, Robert A. Talmanson,
had been given sanctuary several days before by officials of the Unitarian
Universalist Church.

Pastor Neuhaus said the parallels with slavery and the Vietnam War were not
fully accurate. The sanctuary workers, he said, are not principally interested
in sheltering people but rather want to ''score points'' against the Reagan
Administration. In so doing, he said, a few aliens are exploited and the safety
of tens of thousands of others here illegally is jeopardized by the added
publicity about their presence.

Experience in Bedford-Stuyvesant

Despite his criticism, Mr. Neuhaus said there were times when the granting of
church sanctuary was valid. For example, he said, when he was a pastor in the
Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn in the 1960's and early 1970's, there
were instances when a suspect in a drug case would seek refuge from the police
in his church.

''The church placed itself in a mediating role between the individual and the
legal authorities,'' he said, ''not to help the person escape due process, but
in order to take the harsh edge off the immediate justice and to temper that
hard edge.''

Sanctuary advocates vigorously reject the assertion that they are motivated more
by politics than charity. They say theirs is a grass-roots movement that spread
from the local to the national level.

The Rev. John M. Fife, pastor of the Southside Presbyterian Church in Tucson,
Ariz., who is one of the defendants in the Phoenix case, said his church became
active after refugees crossed the border, knocked on the church door and asked
for help. The church, which is not far from the Mexican border, later put up a
sign in Spanish that read, ''This is a sanctuary for the oppressed from Central
America.''

Peggy Hutchison, another defendant in the case from the Tucson area, said: ''We
didn't think we were doing anything superhuman. We are not heroes. All we were
doing is what our tradition taught us.''

In 1984, the Rabbinical Assembly, which represents more than 1,200 Conservative
rabbis around the world, passed a resolution favoring sanctuary. Among the
reasons for the action, the resolution noted, was that ''millions of Jews were
murdered by the Nazis because the nations of the world, including the United
States, did not open their gates to those fleeing the Nazi onslaught.''

Rabbi Wolfe Kelman, executive vice president of the assembly, said sanctuary
must be provided even if there is some open questions about what fate aliens
might face if they were deported. ''If there is a reasonable doubt on matters of
life and death,'' he said, paraphrasing a Talmudic dictum, ''the doubt must be
resolved in favor of life.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Salvadoran refugees in San Benito, Tex. (NYT) (page B16)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 10, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

To Give Sanctuary Is in Accord With Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words


To the Editor:

Your Aug. 19 and 23 front-page articles on the sanctuary movement -the
ecumenical religious groups supporting refugees from Guatemala and El Salvador -
quoted sanctuary opponents urging sanctuary members to work first ''to change
the law'' or ''to respect the law.''

One might point out that the law as it stands states that asylum or extended
visitor status shall be granted to those ''threatened with persecution or with
well-founded fear of persecution.'' This is in the 1980 Refugee Act, passed
overwhelmingly by Congress, and supports international law, as expressed by our
signing of the United Nations Charter on Human Rights.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service approves 1 to 3 percent of
applications for asylum by refugees from Guatemala and El Salvador, whose
''death squad'' activities are well known and where torture and persecution have
been documented by Amnesty International. Refugees from other war-torn areas
whose governments the Administration opposes are almost always granted asylum.

This record of the I.N.S. in selectively granting applications suggests
discrimination against the refugees from Central America. Immigration and
Naturalization rather arbitrarily chooses to label them ''economic refugees''
despite evidence to the contrary (Aug. 19). The judge presiding over the trial
of sanctuary workers in Arizona (mostly ministers, nuns, priests) set for Oct.
15, refuses to allow any mention by the defense of the 1980 Refugee Act - the
current law of the land.

Thus it is that the sanctuary workers insist that they are not guilty of civil
disobedience, but are engaging in ''civil initiative'' in support of current
laws - U.S. and international -as well as being in accord with the Nuremberg
principles holding that citizens are entitled to oppose inhumane acts of their
governments.

The bill of Senator Dennis DeConcini to be introduced in Congress this fall will
clarify this situation for refugees from El Salvador. But before we pass new
laws, can't we hope that the Immigration and Naturalization Service and Arizona
will respect the law as it now stands? ELISABETH AMBELLAN Mansfield Center,
Conn., Aug. 30, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 11, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

EX-P.O.W. ENDS 40 YEARS OF HIDING

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 735 words


After 40 years in hiding in the United States, a World War II German soldier who
escaped from a prisoner-of-war camp is to surrender to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service today in California, according to officials of the
agency.

The fugitive is Georg Gaertner, 64 years old, who lives near Denver with his
wife, Jean, under the name of Dennis Whiles.

Mr. Gaertner's exploits are related in a book, ''Hitler's Last Soldier in
America,'' by Mr. Gaertner, with Arnold Krammer, published this month by Stein &
Day.

Audrey Eisner, a spokesman for Stein & Day, acknowledged that the publication
was timed to coincide with the subject's planned surrender.

Mr. Krammer, a professor of history at Texas A&M University in College Station,
Tex., said in an interview that he wrote the book with Mr. Gaertner after the
German contacted him with regard to an earlier book Mr. Krammer had written,
''Nazi Prisoners of War in America.'' That book, published by Stein & Day in
1979, cited Mr. Gaertner as the last fugitive prisoner of war.

'Transition Into Legality'

It was in response to that, Mr. Krammer said, that Mr. Gaertner, still in
hiding, called him from a telephone booth one night with a desire to tell his
story. Mr. Krammer said he encouraged Mr. Gaertner to come forward as a way ''of
easing his transition into legality'' and helping him ''come in from the cold.''

Mr. Krammer said there was ''no question'' that Mr. Gaertner's story was
authentic. He said he had checked it by examining Mr. Gaertner's birth
certificate, military records and other documents.

Officials said yesterday that it was unlikely that Mr. Gaertner would face
Federal charges or deportation because of questions over which Federal statues,
if any, might apply.

''We're not going to lock him up,'' said John Belluardo, a spokesman for the
Immigration Service in San Pedro, Calif. He confirmed that Mr. Gaertner was the
last known fugitive prisoner of war, calling him ''definitely unique from a
historical standpoint.'' He said Mr. Gaertner's fate would be announced, in his
presence, at a news conference by Harold Ezell, regional commissioner of the
immigration service this morning in San Pedro.

Captured in Tunis

Manuel Marquez, a special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in
Washington, said the F.B.I. had no further interest in Mr. Gaertner, who was
pictured on a wanted poster issued by the F.B.I. Director, J. Edgar Hoover, in
1947. He said the Army had discontinued its search in 1963 and that there were
no Federal charges under which Mr. Gaertner could be successfully prosecuted.
The immigration service, too, he said was no longer interested in deporting him.

Mr. Gaertner, a former sergeant trainee in Field Marshal Erwin Rommel's Africa
Corps, was captured in Tunis in 1943. He escaped from Camp Deming, N.M., on
Sept. 22, 1945, and using his pseudonym, worked in Colorado, California and
Hawaii as a ski instructor, tennis pro, artist and contractor.

His wife of 20 years, who learned his true identity only three years ago, said
yesterday that tense discussions with the immigration service had left the
couple with ''high anxiety,'' but added, ''As of this morning I am relieved.''
She said they would probably continue to use the name Whiles.

Mr. Gaertner himself was said to be closeted with lawyers in preparation for his
appearance today and did not respond to several telephone messages at his Los
Angeles hotel and lawyer's office.

Volunteered for Combat

A public relations representative in Los Angeles, Toby Mamis, later called to
say that Mr. Gaertner was preoccupied with last-minute arrangements with the
immigration service and would not be making any public statement until today.

In the book, Mr. Gaertner portrays himself as a reluctant soldier who never
joined the Nazi Party and volunteered for combat largely out of boredom in his
rural hometown of Schweidnitz.

He said he arrived in North Africa just in time for the German rout. The
victorious British turned him over to the Americans and he became one of about
425,000 German prisoners incarcerated in some 500 camps in the United States.

After two years, he related, he faced being sent back to his homeland, by then
in the Soviet zone of occupation, and managed to escape one night by crawling
under two gates and jumping aboard a passing freight train whose schedule he had
calculated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of Georg Gaertner

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 12, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FORMER GERMAN P.O.W. GIVES UP AFTER 40 YEARS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 11


A former German soldier who said he lived in fear of capture for 40 years after
fleeing a United States prisoner-of-war camp in World War II surrendered today
to the Federal authorities, saying he was relieved the ordeal was over.

The former soldier, Georg Gaertner, 64 years old, alias Dennis Whiles, is the
author of a book published today, ''Hitler's Last Soldier in America.'' Mr.
Gaertner wept as he described his escape in 1945 from the camp in Fort Deming,
N.M., and his four decades as a fugitive.

Of the 2,000 prisoners of war who escaped from United States camps in World War
II, only 12 remained at large in 1946. By 1963 all but Mr. Gaertner had been
captured.

'My Version of American Dream'

''During my freedom, I have lived my own version of the American dream,'' Mr.
Gaertner said at a news conference. His fate rests with the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Denver.

He has been married for 21 years to Jean Clarke.

''I want to stay in the United States with her,'' Mr. Gaertner said.

Harold Ezell, Western regional commissioner of the immigration service, said the
chances were that Mr. Gaertner could remain because his wife was a United States
citizen.

Mr. Ezell also said the Federal Bureau of Investigation canceled Mr. Gaertner's
fugitive arrest warrant in 1976. The case was revived when Mr. Gaertner's
lawyers got in touch with immigration service officials and arranged for his
surrender.

Mr. Gaertner wrote his book with Arnold Krammer, a history professor at Texas
A&M University. Publication was scheduled to coincide with his surrender,
according to Audrey Eisman, a spokeswoman for Stein & Day, the publisher.

Mr. Gaertner was a sergeant in Field Marshal Erwin Rommel's Africa Corps when he
was captured by the British in Tunis in 1943. He was turned over to the United
States Army and brought to this country, where 425,000 German war prisoners were
kept in 500 camps around the country.

He was at Camp Deming in New Mexico when he escaped on the night of Sept. 21,
1945. He hopped aboard a Southern Pacific freight train and three days later was
in San Pedro, Calif. ---- He Was First Peter Peterson In the book, Mr. Gaertner
said that after his escape he passed himself off as Peter Peterson of Norway.
''To my great relief,'' he said, ''I was never required to produce an I.D. card
in my early years in the United States.'' Later he obtained a Social Security
card in the name of Dennis Whiles, a migrant worker he had met.

He became a ski instructor in the Sierra Nevada mountains of California and a
tennis coach in Palm Springs, where, he said, he met movie stars and other
celebrities.

In 1952, he related, he skied 17 miles to take food and medicine to a
blizzard-stranded Southern Pacific passenger train and took photographs and
carried news of the event to the authorities, newspapers and magazines.

But he was not recognized and he never came close to being unmasked, he said.
But Mr. Gaertner had some narrow brushes with F.B.I. agents and policemen
investigating other cases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Georg Gaertner (AP)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 15, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

PIPE-BOMB DEATH PUZZLES AUTHORITIES

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 8, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: PATERSON


TSCHERIM SOOBZOKOV'S home on 14th Street, in a working-class neighborhood, is
empty and boarded up. Splinters of wood and bits of broken glass remain on the
front porch, signs of a pipe bomb explosion last month.

The 61-year-old retired Passaic County purchasing inspector died Sept. 6 of
injuries suffered in the blast, say medical and police officials.

Law-enforcement officials say they are no closer to finding those responsible
than they were last month.

''Nothing yet, nothing at all,'' said Rita Yonker, a spokesman for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation in Newark. ''At this point, leads are very sparse.''

The bureau's Terrorist Task Force, comprising agents and State Police officers,
is working on the case.

A 1977 book about former Nazi war criminals living in the United States said
that Mr. Soobzokov had been an officer with a Wermacht unit that played a role
in 1945 in the deaths of a million Jews on the Russian front.

Mr. Soobzokov denied this, contending that he had taken no part in the roundup
and execution of unarmed civilians. During the war, he said, he and several
friends had joined a Vienna-based Waffen SS unit that never participated in
battle.

In 1974, Mr. Soobzokov was charged by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
with falsifying immigration papers, but in recent years Federal officials were
unable to link him with documented war crimes. Deportation hearings in 1980 were
dropped because of a lack of credible evidence.

Friends and neighbors of Mr. Soobzokov say that in the last eight years they had
become used to altercations, demonstrations and police sirens along the block.
Strangers and unfamiliar cars in the neighborhood prompted numerous telephone
calls to the authorities.

In 1982, when Jewish Defense League members tried to picket the Soobzokov home,
they were pelted with stones by members of the local Circassian community, most
of them Moslem immigrants from the Soviet Union's Caucasus region.

Early on the morning of Aug. 16, a passing motorist spotted a car burning at the
curb on 14th Street. According to the police, he stopped and told a neighbor of
Mr. Soobzokov's.

The neighbor, whom the police have refused to identify, recognized the car as
Mr. Soobzokov's and, accompanied by his dog, rushed to the Soobzokov home and
rang the doorbell.

As Mr. Soobzokov answered the door and stepped outside, the bomb went off, the
police say, hurling him back into his home and injuring the neighbor, Mr.
Soobzokov's wife, daughter and 4-year-old grandson. The neighbor's dog was
killed.  Several hours later, doctors at St. Joseph's Hospital here amputated
Mr. Soobzokov's right leg below the knee.

Calling the explosion ''a tragic incident for all involved,'' Lieut. John
Ragucci, a city detective, said the bombing appeared to have been carefully
planned and executed. The investigation is in Federal hands, he said, because of
its terrorist implications.

Mayor Frank X. Graves, who is also a State Senator, said that the incident had
touched off fear among city neighborhoods. Members of the Soobzokov family and
city officials have called on the Circassian community not to seek retribution.

Mr. Graves, in response to a request filed by the Jewish Defense Organization (a
pro-militant offshoot of the Jewish Defense League) to picket the abandoned
Soobzokov home, denied the permit on the ground that it would further polarize
the city and lead to violent confrontations.

''That kind of trouble we don't need in Paterson,'' the Mayor said.

In a bid to void Mr. Graves's ruling and obtain the picketing permit, the
Newark-based New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union plans to
file suit tomorrow in Federal District Court in Newark, according to Richard
Bassler of Englewood, an A.C.L.U. attorney.

Mordechai Levy, head of the Livingston-based Jewish Defense Organization, called
the bombing ''a righteous act'' for a man who, he said, had avoided justice for
decades.

Mr. Soobzokov was respected in the Circassian community for helping other
immigrants apply for citizenship, homes and jobs. He had said that the
harassment grew out of ignorance and bitterness about the past, according to his
son Kazbek, also of Paterson.

A long-time family friend, who asked not to be identified, said that Mr.
Soobzokokv ''had taken no part'' in war crimes and that the bombers ''were
guilty of the same kind of vicious crime'' they had accused him of committing.

''These people want an eye for an eye,'' he said, ''but Gandhi once said that
'An eye for an eye just tends to lead to a world that is blind.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 22, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Votes in Congress;
Last Week's Tally in Key Eastern States

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 58, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 192 words


Senate

1. Immigration Vote on an amendment to immigration bill that would establish a
new Government program under which farmers could bring up to 350,000 aliens into
the United States to harvest perishable fruit and vegetables. Approved 51 to 44,
Sept. 17.

2. Immigration Final vote on immigration bill that would prohibit employers from
hiring illegal aliens, provide additional money for enforcement of the
immigration laws and offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered the United
States before Jan. 1, 1980, and have lived here continuously since then.
Approved 69 to 30, Sept. 19.
                                1   2
CONNECTICUT
Dodd (D)                        N   Y
Weicker (R)                     N   Y

DELAWARE
Roth (R)                        N   Y
Biden (D)                       N   N

MARYLAND
Mathias (R)                     N   Y
Sarbanes (D)                    N   Y

MASSACHUSETTS
Kennedy (D)                     N   N
Kerry (D)                       N   N

NEW JERSEY
Bradley (D)                     N   N
Lautenberg (D)                  N   N

NEW YORK
D'Amato (R)                     Y   Y
Moynihan (D)                    N   Y

PENNSYLVANIA
Heinz (R)                       N   Y
Specter (R)                     Y   Y

RHODE ISLAND
Pell (D)                        N   Y
Chafee (R)                      N   Y

VIRGINIA
Trible (R)                      Y   Y
Warner (R)                      Y   Y

KEY
Y - Yea;
N - Nay;
A - Absent or did not vote;
P - Present.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 24, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Chinese Farmer Allowed To Stay in United States

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23


A Chinese farmer who was befriended by marines in war-torn China nearly 40 years
ago, can stay in the United States indefinitely and can be joined by his family,
officials said today.

Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d on Friday granted the farmer, Cui Zhixi, known
to his Marine Corps friends as Charlie Two Shoes, an indefinite stay for
humanitarian reasons, according to a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Mr. Cui said he was grateful for the decision, which
reverses an effort by the immigration service to deport him, and added that he
planned a celebration when his wife and three children arrived from China.

At the age of 12, Mr. Cui met members of the Marine Corps's Sixth Division
serving in Qingdao just after the end of World War II. He brought them peanuts
and eggs and learned English from them before they left China in 1949.

Mr. Cui became particularly close to Roy Sibit of Talmidge, Ohio, who was
responsible for bringing Mr. Cui to the United States two and a half years ago
on a visitor's visa, which expired in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 29, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CUBAN REFUGEES ADAPT TO LIFE IN U.S.

BYLINE: By GEORGE VOLSKY, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 34, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Every day, five days a week, about 225 Cuban refugees are interviewed here by
special Immigration and Naturalization Service examiners, and practically all of
them become permanent residents of the United States.

Five years ago these men and women were part of a group of 125,000 refugees who
came to this country from the port of Mariel, west of Havana, in what was
perhaps one of the most controversial migrations in American history.

Many of these refugees experienced discrimination and economic hardships far
worse than had earlier waves of immigrants from Cuba, but, with their new status
as residents, they are beginning to merge into the mainstream of American
cultural and economic life.

''We from Mariel had to begin from zero,'' said Eduardo Suarez, a television
cameraman in Miami. ''In five years, we have done what those before us took 20
years to accomplish.''

Perry A. Rivkind, district director of the immigration service office in Miami,
said ''Fidel Castro sent us a lot of riffraff, but most of the Mariel people are
hard-working, legitimate people.'' Vigil G. Salois, the assistant district
director who is in charge of processing the Mariel refugees, agreed, saying:
''We see very few who are not eligible for adjustment. Practically all have jobs
and families and are contributors to the community.''

Vision of Orderly Boat Lift

When President Carter authorized the immigration in April 1980, it was
envisioned by Washington as an orderly process of transporting aboard American
vessels some 20,000 Cubans who were either relatives of Cubans already here,
dissidents or former political prisoners.

But the immigration turned into a huge, disorderly exodus, manipulated by the
Government of Fidel Castro, which placed on boats bound for Key West, Fla., more
than six times as many refugees as expected, including thousands of prison
inmates, mental patients and others whom Havana called ''antisocial elements.''

Thousands of the Cubans were detained on arrival by immigration service
inspectors. Even now, more than 2,500 of the refugees, classified as
''undesirables,'' are in American jails. Their repatriation to Cuba under a
Washington-Havana agreement was interrupted by Mr. Castro, who denounced the
pact on May 20, the day Radio Marti, a branch of the Voice of America, began
broadcasting to Cuba.

This summer the Justice Department decided to continue holding in custody a
number of Cubans, even though they had served jail sentences for crimes
committed since they arrived in the United States five years ago.

Treatment of Mariel Refugees

The Mariel Cubans were treated differently by the Government from those who came
here in preceding migratory waves. The earlier immigrants were immediately given
refugee status by the United States and allowed to settle, but more than 65,000
of the Mariel arrivals, mostly those without families here, were sent to five
detention camps around the country, from which they were slowly released.

In addition, they were given the immigration status of ''entrants,'' a
classification that placed them in a legal limbo, from which they were only
recently removed when permitted to apply for American residency.

By early 1981, more than 90,000 of the entire group had settled in the Miami
area. Experts in refugee affairs believe that never before has a single
community in the United States experienced such a great influx of refugees in
such a short time.

For several years, the Mariel refugees had difficulties in obtaining jobs and
housing. The weak labor market could not absorb all those who had arrived at
essentially the same time. By mid-1983, some destitute ''Marielitos,'' a name
that has acquired a pejorative connotation here, were roaming Miami streets,
usually in small groups, asking for handouts and sleeping in the parks.

Resentment Toward Immigrants

Many Cubans who had already become part of the Miami community indicated
resentment toward the new immigrants, whom they said reflected badly on
themselves. Stories, often exaggerated, of larceny, robbery and other crimes
committed by Mariel refugees fueled their estrangement from the earlier Cuban
immigrants.

But in the last few years, as work, especially in the service sector, became
more available, the economic conditions of these refugees improved to such a
degree that many Mariel immigrants interviewed here believe the problem has
ceased to exist.

''We had one major advantage,'' Mr. Suarez, the television cameraman, said. ''We
knew from the beginning that there was no way back to Cuba, and even more to
pre-Castro Cuba. Those who came before us, for a long time thought it is
possible, and some of them still think so, living in an old historical
capsule.''

'Many Sleepness Nights'

Mr. Suarez, 35 years old, who has won several local awards for his camera work,
remembers his adjustment problems.

''I was able to obtain a job fairly quickly because of my profession,'' he said.
''But in the beginning I spent many sleepless nights thinking how would I pay
for my and my wife's expenses if I were to be fired the next day. It took me a
year to acquire self-confidence in this strange land of opportunity.''

For Ponciano Perez, 39, and his 33-year-old wife, Norma, this country has
offered the opportunity to own his own business. A mechanic in Cuba, Mr. Perez
first worked in the United States for a year in a lumber warehouse and two years
in construction, mostly for minimum wages.

In 1984, he and his wife opened a small coffee shop. Their Cafeteria Cachita is
open from 6 A.M. to 9 P.M., six days a week. ''We cannot afford any help, so
it's hard work,'' Mr. Perez said. ''But I don't mind. I only regret that we
didn't come here 20 years earlier. I'm now working for myself and my children.''


Working Day and Night

Roberto Rodriguez, a 45-year-old Miami gardener, is not complaining either. He
said that 43 members of his family came on the Mariel boat lift. He owned a
small farm near Havana that belonged to his family for four generations.

''I work here harder than I did in Cuba, even though the farmer's lot is not
easy,'' he said. ''I cut grass during the daytime and in the evening I am a
part-time butcher. My wife works in a factory and one daughter is also
employed.''

After five years in Miami, Mr. Rodriguez and his family saved enough to buy a
$80,000 home. He's making improvements on the house himself and expects to sell
it for a profit.

His two teen-age daughters speak English fairly well, there are three
automobiles, three television sets and a whole array of appliances in the home.
''It is not only us,'' he said. ''All members of my family who came here with
only clothes on our backs are fine. I think it's because we came here to work,
not to loaf.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Cuban refugees crowding around a table at a Miami immigration
center (UPI)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
MORE CUBANS ARE UNWELCOME

BYLINE: By Richard Levine, Henry Giniger and Milt Freudenheim

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 254 words


Fidel Castro impressed some Americans who saw him early this year as being ''in
a new mood for accommodation,'' according to one Congressman. But far from
looking for opportunities to warm the diplomatic atmosphere, Cuba and the United
States have been taking pot shots at one another.

Last week it was Washington's turn. President Reagan, reacting to Havana's
suspension of an immigration agreement in May, imposed restrictions on the entry
of Cuban officials into the United States. The suspension was ostensibly
provoked by the Administration's startup of Radio Marti, an anti Castro station
beamed at Cuba.

Citing ''the current state of relations,'' the President last week barred all
Cubans except those intending to conduct diplomatic business in Washington or at
the United Nations. The practical effect was expected to be limited.
Non-immigrant visas were issued to 250 Cuban officials in the first six months
of 1985, according to the State Department.

Cubans in Washington asserted that the President's proclamation simply made
official a restrictive policy already in force. The immigration agreement that
has been in limbo for nearly six months because of Havana's pique calls on Cuba
to take back 3,000 of its nationals detained in the United States because of
histories of crime or mental illness and for the United States to accept as many
as 20,000 immigrants a year. Those the United States is seeking to oust are part
of a first wave that came to Florida by boat during the Carter Administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CONFERENCE WILL STUDY ROLE OF YIDDISH WRITERS

BYLINE: By RICHARD F. SHEPARD

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 94, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 615 words


S TUDIES of American literature often ignore the important role played by
immigrant authors who write in a foreign language - a situation that a
first-of-a-kind international conference today and tomorrow, featuring such
writers as Isaac Bashevis Singer and Irving Howe, hopes to begin to change.

''American Yiddish Literature: Immigrant Voices in the New World'' is the title
given to the gathering of 32 speakers who will, in lectures and readings,
examine the significance to the American scene of 100 years of Yiddish writing
by Jewish immigrants whose body of letters covered as broad an aspect of life as
that of their English-language counterparts. The conference, sponsored by the
YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, will be held at the West End Synagogue in
the Henry Lindenbaum Center, at 270 West 89th Street.

''There has never been debate and discussion about how foreign-language
literature fits into American literature,'' said Adrienne Cooper, the conference
coordinator and assistant director of YIVO's Max Weinreich Center for Advanced
Jewish Studies. ''Important American literary statements came from people at the
margin, from immigrants. Their early writing provided harsh and realistic
mirrors for American culture.

''One of the purposes of the conference is to open up a discussion of such
writers whose works are not yet translated, to encourage study, translation and
publication.''

Biggest of Its Kind

YIVO, itself an ''immigrant'' from Poland after World War II, is the world's
largest institution dedicated primarily to research and education in the
history, language and ethnography of East European Jews. It is celebrating the
60th anniversary of its founding in Vilna.

''Yiddish literature was born of the interaction between the social, literary
and linguistic heritage of the immigrant writer and the new social and cultural
environment of America,'' said Dan Miron, who directs literature studies at the
center.

Mr. Miron, the conference director, will open the event today at 12:30 P.M. and
will be one of the speakers, on ''The Crisis of Yiddish Modernism in America,''
tomorrow morning. Scholars from the United States, Israel and Canada will
participate.

But for two special readings, all events are open to the public free of charge,
thanks to a grant from the New York State Council for the Humanities. At 3 P.M.
today, Mr. Singer, a Nobel Prize laureate, will read two of his pieces, one in
English, one in Yiddish. Admission is $10. The second reading, at 4 P.M.
tomorrow, will present contemporary Yiddish poets reading their work in Yiddish
with English translation. Admission is $6.

Diverse Sessions

At 7 o'clock tonight, Mr. Howe, a literary critic and author of ''World of Our
Fathers,'' the now-classic history of the Yiddish-speaking Jews and their
American-born offspring, will be moderator of a session at which Chone Shmeruk
of Hebrew University in Jerusalem will discuss ''Sholom Aleichem and America.''
Many other sessions will deal with the Yiddish poets of various schools of
thought who greatly influenced their readers: the ''sweatshop'' poets who wrote
from a political consciousness and the Insicht (introspective) poets who
believed that poets should be more concerned with individual consciousness than
with political aims.

In addition, there will be discussions of other writers, among them I. J.
Singer, brother of Isaac Bashevis Singer, and Leon Kobrin, the novelist and
storyteller whose themes were largely about life in New York.

The point, as made by Mr. Miron, is that America affected the work of the
Yiddish writers and, in one way or another, the work of the Yiddish writers
affected America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Isaac Bashevis Singer (Gilles Vauclair)

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 20, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH BRITAIN'S TROUBLES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words


To the Editor:

It is discouraging to read in your Oct. 10 editorial ''The Battles of Britain''
that ''. . . Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's Conservative Government can also
blame its [Labor and Social Democratic] predecessors'' for their ''generously
conceived . . . welfare state'' - especially in light of the publication the
previous day of a remarkably well-balanced appraisal by R.W. Apple Jr. of
Britain's current problems (''Britain Adrift'').

There was no explicit immigration policy during the 50's and early 60's in
Britain. The British considered all colonials to be British, ergo, they were
entitled to live in Britain. Certain immigrants were in fact actively encouraged
to come to the British Isles during the postwar period of prosperity to do the
jobs British workers would rather not do - street sweeping, ticket collecting on
the underground, and so on. At Heathrow Airport, for example, you see only
Pakistanis and Indians doing the sweeping and cleaning.

It was after the rantings of the likes of Enoch Powell and the National Front -
which not coincidentally coincided with the beginnings of the decline of the
British economy - that such a thing as the immigrant problem became defined.
Now, certain elements are trying to blame the problems of England on the
immigrants, who were essentially encouraged to come to England as cheap labor.

It is also popular to blame Britain's problems on the welfare state - without
which today's riots would be reaching a peak of revolutionary crescendo - while
the royal family (whom Americans seem to admire so greatly) spend their time
doing essentially nothing and while Thatcher's economic policies insure a high
rate of unemployment to instill fear in those who still have jobs and to weaken
the power of the unions.

Having lived in several countries, and studied the matter at length, I should
point out the simple fact that ''immigrants'' are very often the first to be
blamed when a country begins experiencing economic problems -guest workers in
Germany, Ghanaians in Nigeria, Mexicans in the United States and Pakistanis and
Jamaicans in England. It used to be the Irish who bore the brunt of the
scapegoating spears of British ''malaise.''

Until the British resolve their wider, more important problems and decide to go
with a capitalist system or their modified socialism, each administration, while
spending much of its time in the decidedly unproductive activity of undoing the
work of the previous administration, will continue to blame the opposition for
the country's ills. Until the British can agree on some happy medium between
opposing ideologies, their economy will continue to suffer and their
post-imperialistic malaise will continue to fester. MURRAY GORDON Manorville,
L.I., Oct. 10, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 27, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IDEAS & TRENDS;
Sanctuary Case Comes to Court In Arizona

BYLINE: By Katherine Roberts

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 276 words


A courtroom in Tucson, Ariz., provided the setting last week for what may become
the most impassioned conflict between state and religion since some churches
harbored draft resisters during the Vietnam War.

Eleven religious activists are being tried on 67 felony counts of smuggling
illegal aliens into the country, then giving them sanctuary. None of the
defendants deny that they worked to protect Central American refugees in an
''underground railroad.'' But they argue that they acted properly under
immigration-law provisions that protect those who are fleeing oppression. ''What
we're doing is simply what the faith compels us to do,'' said the Rev. John A.
Fife, a Presbyterian minister and one of the defendants.

But the Government classifies most of the Central Americans as economic refugees
and points out that conspiracy to smuggle, transport and conceal illegal alients
is against the law. ''Merely because they wear the garb of the clergy, they have
no greater or no lesser rights than anyone else,'' a United States Attorney
said. The Government relied on undercover infiltration for much of its evidence.

Mr. Fife said he was ''shocked'' by the Government's use of informers posing as
sanctuary volunteers. ''Their purpose was not to investigate, but to intimidate
the movement by spying within congregations,'' he said. The trial is expected to
last about two months. The defendants face prison terms as long as five years on
each count. The defense suffered a setback when the Government, in pretrial
motions, succeeded in barring arguments about religious motives, conditions in
Central America and United States foreign policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Rev. John A. Fife in front of his church in Tuscon
(NYT/Suzi Moore)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 28, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING;
Plea on Writer's Exclusion

BYLINE: By James F. Clarity and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 240 words


A group of noted writers is going into Federal District Court tomorrow to
challenge the 1952 McCarran-Walter Act, which permits the Government to exclude
from the United States anyone who advocates ''the economic, international and
governmental doctrines of world Communism.'' Specifically, the lawsuit will seek
to reverse a decision of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that denied
permanent resident status to Margaret J. Randall, a 48-year-old writer who gave
up her citizenship in Mexico in 1967.

The case is being brought by the Center for Constitutional Rights, a
public-interest law group, with the cooperation of the American Civil Liberties
Union. The plaintiffs include Norman Mailer, Arthur Miller, Grace Paley, William
Styron and Kurt Vonnegut.

In a decision Oct. 2, the Immigration Service concluded that ''her associations
with and her activities and writings in support of the Communist-dominated
Governments of Cuba, North Vietnam and Nicaragua and her advocacy and support of
revolutionary activity in Mexico, as well as her affiliation with and
participation in Communist Party activities, warrant the denial of her
application'' for permanent resident status as a prelude to regaining
citizenship.

According to the center, the suit maintains that it is unconstitutional ''to
exclude someone from this country simply because that person's views are not
consistent with the views of the Administration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 9, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
VOLUNTEERS FOR MISS LIBERTY

BYLINE: By SUSAN HELLER ANDERSON AND DAVID W. DUNLAP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 245 words


Several of Dr. Roxanne M. Zimmer's students at the College of New Rochelle were
interested in the history of immigration. ''So I called the Park Service,'' Dr.
Zimmer said, ''to see if there was a project that students could become involved
with.''

Yesterday, 15 students from her New York Colloquium class traveled to Ellis
Island, to help recatalogue items that will be in the immigration museum at the
Statue of Liberty.

The students found a diversity of objects - a transcontinental railroad guide
from 1871, a piece of turf from Ireland brought over by Kathleen Sweeny in
October 1929. And they heard stories of the immigrants' arrivals, some sad, some
sweet.

''We heard about a man and a woman who had become friends when they came over on
the same ship,'' said Denise Bourque, a sophomore journalism student. ''When
they arrived, the woman was supposed to be met by her fiance. But he sent a wire
saying he had already married.''

At that time, officials would not allow young female immigrants off Ellis Island
without a sponsor, fearing that they might restort to prostitution to survive.

''So the friend offered to marry her,'' Miss Bourque said. ''They returned to
Ellis Island, 45 years later, to visit.''

Miss Bourque's own grandparents came to America from southern Italy, through
Ellis Island.

Last week, the students visited Liberty Island and did some cataloguing there.
''It's giving them a real, personal view of New York,'' Dr. Zimmer said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 12, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING;
Live Aid, Live Spend

BYLINE: By James F. Clarity and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 305 words


A unit of Georgetown University, the Center for Immigration Policy and Refugee
Assistance, has been chosen to screen all proposals for spending about $70
million raised in this country from the Live Aid rock concert last summer in
Philadelphia.

The purpose of the concert, and a simultaneous one in England, was to raise
funds to fight famine and poverty in Africa. Since the concerts, the people
handling the money have been getting organized and making surveys of African
nations needing help.

A spokesman at the Georgetown center said it now seemed likely that some of the
money - the total is still rising - will start to reach Africa by the end of the
year.

Last week the director of the center, the Rev. Harold Bradley, met in London
with Bob Geldof, the initiator of the concerts, and with officials handling
funds raised in Europe. They agreed that the Georgetown center would act as a
clearinghouse for spending proposals and make recommendations to the Live Aid
Foundation. Only proposals from private relief agencies will be considered.

The center will have a special staff of about 12 for the screening, including
experts on Africa on loan from the United States Agency for International
Development, and university students.

Countries chosen for immediate help are Ethiopia, the Sudan, Burkina Faso, Mali,
Chad and Niger. The first approvals will probably be for famine-relief projects
already being operated by the private agencies, according to David Waters,
spokesman for the Georgetown center. He said about 40 percent of the money would
go for immediate famine relief and the balance for such long-term projects as
water table location, well-digging and reforestation.

Mr. Waters said the Georgetown center would keep in mind the assertion by Mr.
Geldof that ''he wants it all spent in six months.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 15, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

GURU TO LEAVE U.S. IN IMMIGRATION PLEA BARGAIN

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Nov. 14


Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh, leader of a commune established in eastern Oregon four
years ago, agreed to leave the country after pleading guilty in Federal District
Court here today to arranging sham marriages to allow his foreign-born followers
live in the United States.

Under a plea bargain arrangement, Mr. Rajneesh received a five-year suspended
prison sentence. He also agreed to pay a $400,000 fine. Mr. Rajneesh left
Portland tonight on a Gulfstream Jet whose flight plan would take it to
Teterboro Airport in New Jersey, according to Federal Aviation Administration
officials here. They said they did not know Mr. Rajneesh's final destination but
a woman at the commune said tonight she believed he was on his way to India.

The fine, which included $140,000 in court costs, was paid out of $500,000 cash
bond paid in his behalf by Rajneesh Friends International, the commune's
corporate arm, after his arrest.

The future of the commune, where about 2,000 of Mr. Rajneesh's followers live,
was not a part of the plea bargain.

Charges Against Followers

The 35-count indictment, returned last month, charged Mr. Rajneesh and seven of
his followers with conspiracy and fraud in immigration matters. The charges are
still pending against the seven followers, all women. A Government attorney,
Robert C. Weaver, said the Government had been prepared to prove that Mr.
Rajneesh had arranged 412 sham marriages.

He would not say why the Government had agreed to the plea bargain except to say
it was ''in the public interest.''

The agreement requires Mr. Rajneesh to obtain the permission of the United
States Attorney General before he can return to the United States.

''I never want to return again,'' Mr. Rajneesh said, in one of the few
statements he made during today's hearing.

Mr. Rajneesh also pleaded guilty to two charges of lying when on May 20, 1981,
he applied for a four-month permit to visit the United States. The indictment
said he told officials he intended to stay only a limited time in order to get
medical treatment not available in India. In fact, the Government charged, he
intended to take up residence in the United States.

Arrest in North Carolina

Mr. Rajneesh was arrested at an airport in Charlotte, N.C., Oct. 28 as he and a
small group of followers prepared to leave the country. The indictment charging
him had been returned in Portland, Ore. five days before.

Charles H. Turner, the United States Attorney in Oregon, charged that Mr.
Rajneesh attempted to leave the country after he learned that the indictment had
been returned.

Prison officials returned him to Oregon after he was denied bail by a Federal
magistrate in Charlotte.

On Nov. 8, soon after his return to Oregon, he was ordered released on bond of
$500,000 by Federal District Judge Edward Leavy, who presided at the trial. At
the bail hearing Government attorneys said there was evidence that the guru had
planned to go to either the Bahamas or Bermuda.

Mr. Rajneesh had lived on a 62,224-acre tract of arid land in eastern Oregon.
The land, a onetime cattle spread called the Big Muddy Ranch, was purchased by
Mr. Rajneesh's followers for about $5.75 million as a retreat for their leader
soon after he immigrated from Poona, India, to Montclair, N.J.

Problems in India Reported

Newspapers in Oregon reported that Mr. Rajneesh left India in large part because
political leaders he had offended there blocked his attempts to obtain land on
which his commune could expand.

After his arrival in Oregon, Mr. Rajneesh made no public statements until last
summer. During that period the commune's chief spokesman was an Indian woman who
had been married to an American. The woman, previously known as Sheela Patel
Silverman, used the name Ma Anand Sheela.

Meanwhile, the commune was growing and at one time had a population of about
7,000. As membership grew so did friction with nearby residents. The guru's
followers sued Oregon's Governor, Victor G. Atiyeh, and Attorney General David
Frohnmayer on charges of racial and religious discrimination. Mr. Frohnmayer
began legal action against the commune on the ground that its construction
violated Oregon land use laws.

In the fall of 1984 the group brought in hundreds of new residents, some of them
virtual derelicts, and attempted to register them as Oregon voters. But
officials deemed unfriendly by the commune leadership were reelected.

In September the Bhagwan announced that Ma Anand Sheela and some others had
left. He blamed her for many troubles, including the long festering animosities
with residents of Antelope, a village near the commune. Some of the guru's
followers had moved there, elected some of their number as town officials and
renamed the place Rajneesh.

Just before his flight to Charlotte, Mr. Rajneesh asked his followers to restore
the town's former name, a measure approved at a special election early this
month, while Mr. Rajneesh was in jail. The vote was unanimous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh (UPI)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 20, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Politics-Free Political Asylum

BYLINE: By Michael Posner; Michael Posner is executive director of the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words


It is rare that I find myself supporting Jesse Helms. It happened this month
when Senator Helms valiantly tried to prevent a young Soviet seaman, Miroslav
Medved, from being returned to his country. Though the Senator did not prevail,
his defense of the 22-year-old sailor was entirely justified - and his
humanitarian approach to political asylum ought to be pursued in all such cases,
whether those seeking refuge come from the East or the West.

On Oct. 24, Mr. Medved plunged off a Soviet trawler anchored in a Louisiana
harbor and swam ashore. Interviewed in Ukrainian by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he explained that he sought asylum here because he
wanted ''to live in an honest country.'' Two immigration officials - who may be
demoted as a result - nevertheless determined that he was not seeking asylum.

Several days later, the State Department removed Mr. Medved from the ship for
further questioning. He declared that he had reconsidered and decided not to
seek asylum, and he was then returned to his ship - despite evidence that his
superiors had made threats against his family since he jumped overboard. There
is little doubt that the approach of the summit meeting influenced this outcome.
As his ship left for the Soviet Union, a White House spokesman informed the
press that ''the executive branch has carried out its responsibility. . . . We
consider the case closed.''

Senator Helms felt otherwise and strongly criticized both the Service's
insensitivity and the injection of foreign policy interests into the asylum
process. He is right on both counts. What he doesn't realize is that the only
unusual thing about the handling of the Medved case was the publicity it
received.

Dozens of people come to our shores every day seeking asylum from persecution.
Generally, they don't speak English; few are familiar with the American legal
system. They are met by agents of the Immigration Service, who generally lack
the time, expertise and inclination to review their factually complex and
politically sensitive cases. Not surprisingly, most claims are rejected.

The other agency directly involved in the asylum process is the State
Department, which prepares ''advisory opinions'' evaluating conditions in the
country from which each applicant has come. In order to grant asylum, the
department must find that the country is persecuting its citizens -and such
determinations are often politically skewed.

It is, for example, exceedingly awkward for a State Department official to have
to report today that individuals are being persecuted in El Salvador. Among
those treated, the worst are refugees from Haiti, El Salvador, Pakistan, the
Philippines and other countries that both violate human rights and receive
American aid.

What can be done about these problems? First, asylum cases should be handled not
by the Service but by a separate unit within the Justice Department. Immigration
judges and others who deal with these cases should receive special training on
refugee law and international human rights standards and conditions.

Second, the review of asylum claims should include formal involvement by the
office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. This respected,
professional international agency already participates in decisions on asylum
cases in many countries in Europe and elsewhere, and its involvement would
encourage more independent and consistent review in this country.

Finally, we should limit the State Department's role in evaluating petitions: It
should furnish general information on country conditions rather than prepare
advisory opinions on individual cases. As long as the department has a central
role in the process, foreign policy is sure to continue to interfere with fair
treatment of individual applicants.

Voluntary agencies, religious groups and legal advocacy organizations have long
argued for such reform, but their efforts have been hampered by a lack of
broad-based Congressional support. Perhaps with the chairman of the Senate
Agriculture Committee on our side, asylum applicants can look to the day when
they will get what he calls ''an unfettered chance for freedom.''

Senator Helms, the ball is in your court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 21, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

A BLUNT KOCH WOOS JAPANESE TRADE

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 20


Mayor Koch, praising Asian immigrants for having ''revitalized '' New York,
ended a five-day stay in Tokyo today with an appeal to Japanese businesses to
move to his city.

But Mr. Koch, being Mr. Koch, accompanied his sales pitch with criticism of the
people he hoped to persuade. In particular, he complained to a Japanese business
group that ''Japanese take advantage'' of the United States on trade issues.

''The Japanese mind-set,'' he said later to Tokyo-based foreign correspondents,
''is to buy only Japanese, whereas the mind-set of Americans is to buy foreign.
Foreign is good even if it's junk.''

But then, he quickly added, swinging back to emphasize the positive, ''Japanese
do not make junk, we know that.''

'A Great Opportunity'

Along that line, the Mayor singled out the makers of prefabricated housing and
subway cars as Japanese businesses that might want to take advantage of New York
tax abatements and other incentives. One possible site for manufacturers, he
said, is the old Brooklyn Army Terminal, purchased by the city several years
ago.

''This is a great opportunity,'' he said, ''but I don't know how long I can hold
that space for you.''

Mr. Koch, who was here to mark the 25th anniversary of a ''sister cities''
relationship between New York and Tokyo, left this evening on a private trip to
Hiroshima. He is scheduled to visit the central Japanese cities of Kyoto and
Nara before returning home Saturday.

At his public appearances in Tokyo, Mr. Koch demonstrated graphically that
despite his ample skill as a politician in New York, he probably would not make
a very good Japanese.

The first-person singular form is not much admired here, even in politicians.
They are expected to profess modesty, and officeholders seeking head-on
confrontations do so at their peril.

But the Mayor ran true to form, disregarding a well-worn Japanese proverb: The
nail that sticks up gets hammered down.

Complaint to Nakasone

He called on Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone today and complained that the
Japanese Government tolerated an Arab League boycott of companies doing business
with Israel.

He discussed New York's homeless population, but made sure to point out that
Tokyo had a similar problem. ''In the subway at night, you don't see people
sleeping there?'' he asked.

And his liberal use of first-person singulars would have made even a samurai
warrior flinch. ''I'm not going to let false modesty stand in the way,'' he told
the foreign correspondents as he recited some of his accomplishments as Mayor.

What his hosts, senior officials of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, thought
of this blunt style could only be guessed. But Mr. Koch, who said he was
familiar with the hammer-and-nail proverb, judged his trip a success.

''A number of Japanese have said that so many meetings they'd had with
foreigners were boring, and I was not boring,'' he said. ''But who knows whether
they're just making nice-nice.''

Cleanliness Impresses Him

The Mayor said he was impressed by much of what he saw in the Japanese capital,
notably its cleanliness. Asians in general, and Koreans in particular, received
special praise after a Korean photographer mentioned that his brother owned a
small grocery in Brooklyn.

''The Korean community is the most successful immigrant commmunity in the
history of New York,'' Mr. Koch said. ''It comes from good business judgment.
But it also comes from hard work. The whole family is working.''

This success seems to be concentrated in vegetable stands and fish stores, the
Mayor said.

''I'm surprised your brother's in the grocery business,'' he told the
photographer. ''I didn't know they entered that field yet. So for all other
groups, it's bye-bye grocery stores.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 28, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

LOS ANGELES BACKS ALIEN SACTUARY MEASURE

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 555 words


A measure directing Los Angeles city workers to ignore the immigration status of
''political refugees'' from Central America was narrowly approved by the City
Council today, one day after County supervisors urged cities to reject such
steps.

The measure, largely symbolic, defined political refugees as people who say they
are victims of political violence or persecution. It says city employees should
not voluntarily assist the Federal authorities in finding and deporting them.

The Los Angeles measure, which takes effect immediately, also endorses a Los
Angeles Police Department policy of ignoring the immigration status of people
suspected of crimes.

Meanwhile, in Brookline, Mass., a suburb of Boston, opponents of a resolution
declaring it a sanctuary for refugees from Haiti, Guatemala and El Salvador said
they would petition for a townwide referendum on the issue. The resolution was
passed late Tuesday by the Representative Town Meeting, a townwide governing
body.

The Los Angeles measure ''directs city employees to exclude refugee status as a
consideration in their routine dealings. The council approved it on an 8-to-6
vote after two hours of debate and testimony.

Similar declarations have been passed in West Hollywood, Calif.; Berkeley,
Calif.; Chicago; St. Paul, Minn., and Cambridge, Mass., across the Charles River
from Brookline.

In October, Mayor Koch of New York City directed municipal employees not to
report illegal aliens to the Federal authorities unless they appeared ''to be
engaged in some kind of criminal behavior.''

He said such aliens should be encouraged to make use of city services. But a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service called the directive
''unwise and unpatriotic.''

The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors voted Tuesday to oppose offering
sanctuary to illegal aliens, and urged the county's 84 cities to adopt a similar
policy. Supervisor Mike Antonovich said a sanctuary policy ''breeds contempt for
the law and for our democratic form of government by encouraging illegal
immigration.''

But Los Angeles Councilman Michael Woo, a proponent of the city measure, said it
would not encourage new immigration or ask city employees to interfere with
Federal officials.

Harold Ezell, regional commissioner for the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the measure would not change ''what we do in Los
Angeles.''

Mr. Ezell, who had denounced the proposal as ''absolutely a ridiculous and
disastrous type of thing,'' said the movement supporting sanctuary ''sympathizes
with Marxist-Leninist regimes who believe America should have no presence in
Central America.''

The resolution in Brookline, Mass., passed the 251-member representative town
meeting 105-to-53, with the rest of the members abstaining or absent. It
declares that refugees are entitled to all town services.

Robert Kahn, a Brookline housing commissioner and one of the Town Meeting
members who voted against the measure, said it would permit illegal aliens to
compete with longtime town residents for scarce public resources.

Zvi Sesling, chairman of the Board of Selectmen, said the resolution was a
statement to the Federal Government expressing disagreement with its policy that
refuses refugee status ''to people escaping from right-wing governments.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 10, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

STUDY HAILS EFFECT OF MEXICANS ON CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 9


A new study of the impact of Mexican immigrants on California concludes such
immigration ''has probably been an economic asset'' to the state and says no
''immigration crisis'' exists here.

''Our evidence suggests that Mexican immigrants may actually have stimulated
manufacturing employment by keeping wages competitive,'' which enabled
manufacturers to better compete with foreign producers, said the study, released
today.

The report, ''Mexican Immigration Into California: Current and Future Effects,''
was prepared by the Rand Corporation, a nonprofit public policy research
institute based in Santa Monica. It was sponsored and paid for by the California
Roundtable, an organization of 90 of California's largest companies.

The report did not address the issue of whether Mexican immigrants are
displacing either whites or other minority groups from jobs. It said, however,
that wage levels of non-Hispanic whites and blacks were both ''substantially
higher'' in California than their counterparts nationwide. ''Thus, even if the
presence of a large pool of Mexican workers has slowed wage increases, it has
certainly not erased the earnings advantage enjoyed by California's Anglo and
black workers,'' the report said.

Surge in Immigrants Seen

According to the report, there are between 1.2 and 1.5 million Mexican
immigrants in Califoria today and 85 percent of them live in southern
California, more than 50 percent in Los Angeles County alone. It projected that
the numbers of Mexican immigrants in the state ''could almost triple'' in the
next 15 years.

Fully 45 percent of the state's Hispanic population are either immigrants or the
children of immigrants, the report said.

The researchers said that over all ''immigrants' contributions in the form of
taxes exceed the cost of providing public services that they use,'' provided
that the cost of education was excluded.

It added that the immigrants' use of public services was likely to increase as
more of them took up permanent residency in California and made use of available
education and other services.

Taxes and Services

The report qualified its findings by noting a lack of reliable data about tax
contributions and about how much it costs to provide immigrants such services.
''Furthermore, if, as some maintain, such estimates should include the indirect
costs of providing services to citizens displaced by Mexican workers, it is
probably impossible to calculate the full costs,'' the authors said.

Regarding welfare costs, the authors said that the Census data they examined
indicated that less than 5 percent of all Mexican immigrants, including
citizens, legal residents and illegal aliens, were receiving some form of cash
assistance in 1980.

The report credits Mexican immigrants with having slowed the growth of wages in
California. In the 1970's, growth in wages in California fell 12 percent behind
the national average. In Los Angeles it was said to be 15 percent slower than
the national average. The report said that ''by keeping costs low, slow wage
growth enabled the manufacturing sector to maintain a better competitive
position vis-a-vis foreign producers.'' ----Florida Plea on Haitians
TALLAHASSEE, Fla., Dec. 9 (UPI) - Gov. Bob Graham urged the Federal Government
today to help ward off a threatened new influx of Haitian immigrants into south
Florida.

Mr. Graham said more than 30,000 Haitians have been left in legal limbo in the
Bahamas because of a crackdown on illegal residents there.

The Governor said those immigrants might next look to south Florida, where
25,000 Haitians sought refuge in 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 11, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Recommends Denial Of Asylum for Syrian

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 70 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 10


The State Department recommended Monday that asylum be denied to a Syrian ship
stowaway who jumped handcuffed into the Mississippi River last week, one of his
lawyers said.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials in New Orleans said they would
follow the department's advice regarding the Syrian, Mohammed Marie, 20 years
old, according to the lawyer, Jessica Bagg. She said the decision would be
appealed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

OUR REFUGEE POLICY IS ON TRIAL IN SANCTUARY CASE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 209 words


To the Editor:

Your editorial seems to scant the facts as well as being a little unctuous about
the whole thing.

True, the United States has a right and duty to protect its borders. But by its
own laws, and the United Nations protocol to which it is a signatory, it also
has the duty to give refugees claiming asylum time and opportunity to make their
case. In many instances, the sanctuary movement is working to provide time and
legal resources for them to make their plea in due course. It began when the
Immigration and Naturalization Service was rounding up refugees from Central
America, throwing them into camps and deporting them without giving them any
opportunity to plead. Is there any evidence that this situation has changed?

The trial to which these culprits are being subjected, if judged by the trial
judge's characterization of the entrapment tactics used by the I.N.S., seems
like something out of Gilbert and Sullivan. The judge termed those tactics
''unacceptable but not outrageous.'' Is there some arcane legal terminology that
makes ''unacceptable'' evidence acceptable as testimony in court? And what kind
of ''outrageous'' would it have to be for him to rule it out? FREDERIC E. PAMP
SR. Rockport, Mass., Dec. 14, 1985

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 30, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Reports Rise in Attacks On Its Border Patrol Agents

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 29


The Immigration and Naturalization Service says violence against its agents
along the Mexican border around San Diego rose 37.5 percent this year.

The immigration agency says 77 Border Patrol officers were injured in 1985 in
the San Diego sector, which includes 66 miles of the Mexican border and Orange,
Riverside and San Diego counties. In 1984, 56 agents were attacked. More illegal
immigrants cross the border in the San Diego area than anywhere else along the
1,700-mile United States-Mexico boundary.

''Assaults against Border Patrol officers are rising at an alarming rate,'' said
Harold Ezell, the agency's Western Regional Commissioner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 2, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEW PROGRAMS ARE WIDENING SCOPE OF BILINGUAL EDUCATION

BYLINE: By JANET ELDER

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 4; Home Desk

LENGTH: 970 words


THE influx of Asian and Hispanic children into the public school systems of
metropolitan areas in the last decade and the increased availability of funds
under Title VII of the Federal Bilingual Education Act have broadened the focus
of bilingual education programs. Now these programs include seminars for
teachers on the cultural and behavioral differences of their students.

''Initially bilingual education meant finding teachers to teach a child in his
native tongue, but the population is changing too fast; we can barely keep up
with that,'' said Dr. Esther Eisenhower, a member of the National Advisory
Council for Bilingual Education. ''We now understand how important it is for
teachers to be able to read the behavior dictated by their students' background
- language has become almost secondary.''

Although there are no figures available on the number of foreign-born children
now attending schools in the United States, figures kept by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service show that in 1984 nearly 300,000 people immigrated to
this country from Asia, Central America and South America. Those immigrants have
gone to places like Fairfax County, Virginia, where only 10 years ago there were
50 foreign-born children registered in the public schools. Today, there are
14,000 foreign-born children from 75 countries speaking a total of 57 languages
who go to school in Fairfax County, the nation's 10th largest school district.

To provide resources to school districts with culturally diverse student
populations, there are 16 multifunctional centers currently funded under Title
VII, which offers training and technical assistance to local school districts.
At one such center, at Hunter College in Manhattan, Dr. Joseph Woo, a native of
Hong Kong, leads workshops for teachers of Asian students, focusing on
differences in learning styles and behavior.

''Most often teachers want to know what it means when an Asian child sits
silently and does not respond,'' Dr. Woo said. ''In some Asian cultures,
emotional privacy is very important. In many family settings in Hong Kong, for
instance, it is the only kind of privacy there is - physical privacy is nearly
nonexistent. A well-meaning teacher who asks her students to share their
feelings may be putting the Asian child under a great deal of stress.''

Even when a teacher asks a child whether he understands a concept or an
instruction, cultural differences may lead to the wrong response. ''The Asian
child will answer yes because they don't want the teacher to feel like a failure
and therefore lose face,'' Dr. Woo said.

Teachers must not only try to understand the behavior of their students, but
also must take into account the method of the students' previous schooling.

''In some countries children learn by rote,'' said Evelyn Rivera, who leads
teacher-training seminars in District 10 in the Bronx under Title VII. ''In the
United States, most school systems prefer to have children learn through
discovery. Some children have to learn how to learn all over again.''

For the foreign-born child who has had no formal schooling, there are more
complex problems. ''What grade do you put that student in?'' asked Olga Garcia
Harper, a program specialist at the Department of Education. ''That child does
not have the most rudimentary academic survival skills. Yet, we can't put a
14-year-old in a first-grade classroom.''

At the Office of Bilingual Education in Washington, professionals are working to
answer questions like those raised by Mrs. Harper.

''I'm not pleased with what we have done in this field so far,'' said Carol
Whitten, director of the Office of Bilingual Education.

''We're studying all of these very complex and serious issues related to
bilingual education. We don't yet have answers, but certainly we have to head in
the direction of increased teacher training.''

Just as there are challenges to the teacher and the foreign-born student in a
classroom where many cultures are represented, there are challenges to
classmates as well.

At South Boston High School, the diverse student body - 18 percent of the
students are Hispanic, 31 percent white, 38 percent black, 12 percent Asian and
1 percent American Indian - ''gets along well, but everyone is still learning,''
said Jerome Winniger, the principal.

To illustrate his point, he described this incident: ''During a friendly hockey
game, things got a little out of hand, and a fight broke out between two members
of opposing teams.''

Adhering to the unwritten hockey code of conduct, ''John, who has lived all his
life in the United States, dropped his hockey stick and put up his fists,'' he
said. ''Sophay, a Cambodian, held onto the stick and braced for battle.''

''One boy grew up fighting with his fists and another with sticks,'' Mr.
Winniger said. ''They didn't understand that each was acting in a way that was
appropriate for their culture.''

At some schools, students and parents are trying to find subtle ways of dealing
with cultural differences. At the bilingual Public School 211 on East 179th
Street in a largely Hispanic neighborhood in the Bronx, the students and their
parents voted two years ago to adopt a school uniform.

''This has been a great equalizer,'' said Dr. Peter Nigrone, superintendent of
District 12. ''It has eliminated some competition and erased some of the
differences among students. It's had a very positive psychological effect.''

Instead of the usual blue jeans seen in most schools, P.S. 211 students wear
yellow shirts; the girls can wear navy jumpers or navy skirts; the boys wear
navy slacks and, if they like, a navy blazer. These uniforms ''give the students
a feeling that they all belong to the same place,'' said Ida Kivelevich, a
reading and math teacher. ''It also gives them a feeling of pride.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 8, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

NEEDIEST CASES FUND HELPING IMMIGRANTS SHARE GOOD FORTUNE

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 239 words


Many immigrants to the United States who wish to share the happiness and good
fortune they found in their new homeland are among the contributors to the 74th
annual appeal of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

''Fifty years ago, in September 1935, I arrived here as a refugee from Germany
escaping Hitler and the Holocaust,'' wrote Edith Harold of the Bronx.

''During all the ensuing years I have always tried to support worthwhile
charitable funds,'' she said. ''This year, being such a special year for me, I
wish to include your Neediest Cases Fund and hope that my contribution of $25
might help one of my less fortunate older-new Americans.''

Dorothy Jane Solinger of Ann Arbor, Mich., also had a special year she wanted to
commemorate. ''I turned 40 this year, and am celebrating the good fortune I have
in being able to give $40 to others,'' she said.

A mother in Manhattan sent an anonymous donation of $2,000, saying, ''My
children and I decided that the monies they received for Christmas should be
matched by a gift to the neediest.''

Many contributors to the fund do so as a ritual part of their holiday season.
Marion S. Kaplan of Manhattan sent a check for $2,500, noting that she was
''grateful for the opportunity to continue our tradition of contributing to the
fund.''

For the Isaac Morris Foundation, this marked the 30th year it has contributed to
the Neediest Cases appeal. It sent a check for $450.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 11, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AFGHAN EMIGRES JOYOUS AT BEING FREED BY U.S.

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 572 words


The first thing the Singh family did when they got home to Queens was to go to
the Sikh temple and offer thanks that Mohan had been freed at last.

Then there were tea, orange juice, almonds and continual visits and telephone
calls from Afghan friends and neighbors and in the evening a celebration party
with lamb and chicken and yogurt, Afghan style.

Mohan Singh, 18 years old , was one of 32 Afghan refugees released by the
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service after 18 months in detention in
New York for entering the country illegally.

''I am very happy and proud, and feel that I am in America for the first time,''
Mr. Singh told visitors to the two-room apartment in Flushing where his sister,
her husband and three children, also refugees from Afghanistan, live.

'A Surprise'

An Afghan friend, Sayed, who had spent six months in detention until he was
freed yesterday, also expressed his joy and said he still could not believe they
were free ''because it came as such a surprise.'' Sayed, who asked that his full
name not be disclosed to protect relatives in Afghanistan, is staying with the
Singhs until he can join his brother in Alabama.

The Afghan refugees were released after an agreement was reached by immigration
officials and lawyers representing the detainees. Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato,
Republican of New York, and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Representative
Gary Ackerman, both Democrats of New York, personally intervened.

''Technically they are parolees, but practically they are in limbo because they
can't leave the country without permission and can't bring in family,'' said a
lawyer who headed the effort to free the Afghans, Arthur Helton.

Mr. Helton said that the committee would urge immigration officials to grant the
Afghan refugees political asylum and that those whose applications have been
rejected may appeal.

Confined With Criminals

''The worst thing about detention was that we refugees were held with criminals
who smoked hashish and wanted to fight with us all the time and took our
money,'' Mr. Singh said. He had problems with the food, too, because as a Sikh
he does not eat beef, and beef was served almost every day.

His friend Sayed, a 27-year-old psychiatrist, said that what had hurt him most
was ''being handcuffed and treated like a criminal because in Afghanistan,
doctors are respected.''

Wearing a tight black turban and striped sport shirt, Mr. Singh sat crosslegged
on a couch and talked about his life and plans in hesitant English, learned
during his detention. In Afghanistan, he had been a high school student when he
joined an anti-Government group as a courier.

'Very Strongly Afghan'

Although Sikhs comprise only 1 percent of the nation's population, he said, ''we
feel very strongly Afghan.'' He and his sister Ram Singh and her husband, Kul
Raj Singh, and their young children fled the Soviet-controlled state together.

They first went to India, and then flew to the United States. They had come
together on the same airplane, but his sister and her family had been granted
parole while he had been detained and held in the immigration detention center
in Manhattan.

Mr. Singh and Sayed said that next week they and the other refugees must return
to the detention center to get their documents - parole papers and work permits.

''After that, I want to learn English better and get a job in business,'' he
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Fouzia Masoud being greeted by her friend, Shaklar Shakilao,
after being released (NYT/AP)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 11, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Letter: On Refugee Rights;
Towns as Instruments of Sanctuary

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 444 words


To the Editor:

''Cities Can't Make Immigration Law'' (editorial, Dec. 27) asserts that since
the United States adheres to the international law rights of refugees, local
governments are wrong to declare their cities and towns sanctuaries for refugees
from Latin America. This, you say, usurps a Federal Government function.

That assertion reflects either awesome political naivete or an unwelcome return
to blind trust-in-government politics.

Our professed adherence to refugee rights is belied by the Administration's
inability to identify any political refugees among the thousands of Haitians
''interdicted'' by the Coast Guard on the high seas. Who apart from The Times
can believe that not one of these fleeing Haitians has a ''well-founded fear''
of political persecution when forced by the U.S. to return to Haiti?
Administration procedures offer Haitians no viable opportunity to claim refugee
rights.

As to El Salvador, you close your eyes to the Administration's double standard
on refugee status. Salvadoran Archbishop Rivera y Dumas recently urged extended
departure status for all Salvadorans now in the U.S. because of the continued
inability of the Duarte Government to prevent the murder of accused or suspected
''subversives.'' Yet nothing short of specific death threats seems to satisfy
this Administration that a Salvadoran is entitled to refugee rights.

Deference to the Administration's refusal to classify Haitians and Salvadorans
as refugees means blind acceptance of grossly unfair procedures and lawless
acts. Refugee rights are internationally protected human rights adhered to by
the United States, but egregiously ignored by the current Administration.
Sanctuary declarations adopted by Brookline and Cambridge in Massachusetts
symbolically uphold international law duties rejected by the Reagan
Administration. Their force is not great, but such declarations represent our
efforts as citizens and public officials to turn the United States back to its
proper course as a leader in securing the international rights of refugees.

International human rights laws are laws of the United States which we as
legislators are sworn to uphold. Town Meeting action declaring Brookline a
sanctuary for refugees deliberately and consciously conflicts with Reagan
Administration policy, but does so in service of the overriding duty accepted by
the United States not to return refugees to countries from which they have fled
owing to well-founded fears of political persecution.DANIEL G. PARTAN Boston,
Jan. 2, 1986 The writer is professor of international law at Boston University
and an elected Town Meeting member in Brookline, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 28, 1986, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Federal Agents Query Haitians Rescued at Sea

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 27


Immigration agents went aboard a Coast Guard cutter today to question 68
Haitians rescued from an overcrowded sailboat foundering in the Atlantic.

Three Coast Guard helicopters and two cutters Sunday rescued 71 Haitians from a
40-foot sailboat that had begun taking on water in 20-foot seas. Three of the
refugees were taken ashore for medical treatment.

The sailboat, designed to carry 30 people, was 20 miles east of Fort Lauderdale
when she radioed a distress call.

Thirty-two people were lifted off the sailboat in rescue baskets suspended from
the helicopters. The Coast Guard cutters Dauntless and Cape Knox picked up the
remaining 39 in small boats. All were transferred today to the Dauntless.

A Coast Guard helicopter ferried the immigration agents to the Dauntless off
Pompano Beach today.

Under United States immigration policy, Haitians are considered economic
refugees rather than political refugees. That policy has prompted thousands of
Haitians to try to enter the country illegally, usually aboard crowded boats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 31, 1986, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AFTER 11 YEARS APART, RUSSIAN IS REUNITED WITH AMERICAN HUSBAND

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Jan. 30


After years of struggle with Soviet emigration authorities, Irina McClellan, the
Soviet wife of an American professor, arrived in the United States today and was
reunited with the husband she had not seen since August 1974.

Mrs. McClellan, who was repeatedly denied permission to emigrate until late last
year, arrived at Baltimore-Washington International Airport on a World Airways
flight from Frankfurt at 4:36 P.M. She left the Soviet Union on Wednesday.

Awaiting her was Woodford McClellan, a history professor at the University of
Virginia at Charlottesville, who met his future wife in 1972 while he was
traveling with a tourist group in the Soviet Union.

Mr. McClellan paced nervously in an airport waiting room while his wife was
speeded through customs and immigration procedures. At 5 P.M., he saw her,
called out in Russian and threw wide his arms.

'Those Years Are Over'

They embraced, half wept and half chattered in Russian, then withdrew for a few
moments alone.

''I am excited very much,'' Mrs. McClellan said in an interview a few minutes
later. ''I am happy that those years are over now.''

She added: ''I have a lot of plans -just to live, first of all. Not survive.''

Asked if she felt that she and her husband had changed, she looked at him,
laughed and said, ''I feel we have changed, but not tragically.''

She indicated that she wanted to put the long years of waiting behind her. ''Why
should I think of it now?'' she said.

She said that she hoped to find a job, perhaps as a teacher, and buy a car so
she could travel.

'A Honeymoon Again'

The McClellans laughed easily, with the banter of the long-married. At a news
conference tonight, Mrs. McClellan said, ''My husband told me that we're going
to have honeymoon again.'' Mr. McClellan added, ''My wife told me to take her
someplace warm.'' A reporter shouted, ''Where are you going?'' Mr. McClellan
replied, ''Someplace warm.'' In a statement issued today, Mr. McClellan said,
''It is my family's hope that the release of a few spouses and other relatives
of American citizens from the U.S.S.R., a gesture which costs the Kremlin
nothing, will herald a more humane emigration policy.'' #10 on Exit List
Emigration from the Soviet Union is heavily restricted, and Soviet citizens who
marry Americans must get permission from the Soviet Government if they want to
move to the United States. Most of those requests are granted, according to the
State Department, but about 20 percent run into some sort of trouble, for
reasons that are often not explained.

Mrs. McClellan was one of 10 people in the Soviet Union with American ties who
were told in November that they would get formal permission to move to the
United States. Soviet authorities told the State Department of that decision
just before the summit meeting between President Reagan and Mikhail S.
Gorbachev, the Soviet leader, in Geneva. Of the 10 cases, eight were
Soviet-American couples.

Mrs. McClellan was the last of the eight Soviet spouses on the November list to
leave, a State Department spokesman said. There are believed to be some 20
couples in similar situations.

Mrs. McClellan, 47 years old, delayed her departure because she wanted her
daughter by a previous marriage to accompany her. The daughter, Yelena
Kochetkov, 26, was granted permission to leave earlier this month, and arrived
with her mother today.

A Poodle and a Cat

Mrs. McClellan brought four pieces of luggage, a large gray poodle and an orange
and white cat.

The McClellans have lived on photographs and occasional phone calls since Mr.
McClellan's Soviet visa expired in August 1974, a few months after they married.
After that he was denied permission to visit Moscow, and she was refused
permission to emigrate.

Before his wife arrived today, Mr. McClellan, who is 51, said there was some
apprehension mingled with joy and relief about the approaching reunion.

He added: ''What we had, plus the shared ordeal, has given us such an incentive
to make it work. So I really think if any two people can make it, we can.''

Mrs. McClellan has said the emigration authorities never formally explained why
she was barred from leaving. She said she was told unofficially that when she
worked at the Institute of World Economy and International Relations in the
early 1970's she dealt with classified material. She said that was not the case.

In recent years, Mrs. McClellan, who lived in Moscow, earned a living by
teaching English and typing. Mr. McClellan, who has been on the faculty of the
University of Virginia for 20 years, is a specialist in Russian history. He
recently published a textbook, ''Russia, A History of the Soviet Period.''

The book is dedicated to Irina, who ''embodies the ultimately victorious best in
the Russian spirit,'' Mr. McClellan wrote.

With Mrs. McClellan's arrival, 9 of the 10 cases on the Kremlin's November exit
list were resolved. The 10th case is that of Abe Stolar, who moved to the Soviet
Union from the United States with his family as a youth. He and his family - his
wife, their son and daughter-in-law - have repeatedly been denied permission to
leave for the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Irina McClellan (AP)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 1, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

SPORTS PEOPLE;
Work Permit Denied

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 132 words


By the standards of his native Iceland, Petur Gudmundsson, a 7-foot-2-inch
center for the Kansas City Sizzlers of the Continental Basketball Association,
is a pretty fair basketball player. By the standards of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, he is nothing special. Not special
enough, anyway, to qualify for a special work permit given to aliens of
''distinguished merit and ability.'' In rejecting Gudmundsson's application for
such a permit, the service indicated that playing in the C.B.A. was proof of his
undistinguished merit. ''The C.B.A. is a good league,'' said Ron Sanders, the
I.N.S. district director in Kansas City, ''but the players aren't of the same
caliber as the N.B.A. And if he did have distinguished ability he wouldn't be in
the C.B.A.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 1, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION EXHIBITS AT CITY GALLERIES

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13, Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 375 words


Following is a list of exhibitions on the Statue of Liberty and immigration at
city museums, libraries and galleries: New-York Historical Society, Central Park
West at 76th Street: ''Statue of Liberty: America's Symbol of Freedom in
Souvenirs and Ephemera,'' now to June 22. ''Statue of Liberty:

Fine Arts Centennial Celebration,'' now to March 16. ''Liberty's Legacy:
Photographs of New York's Ethnic Festivals,'' May 16 to Sept. 28. Brooklyn
Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway: ''Liberty: Homage to Frederic Auguste Bartholdi,''
photographs by Ruffin Cooper. June 22 to Sept. 8. Newhouse Gallery, Snug Harbor
Cultural Center, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Staten Island: ''New Liberty Monuments:
Symbolizing Liberty Today.'' March 15 to April 6. New York Public Library, Fifth
Avenue at 42nd Street, third floor:

''Ellis Island'' - immigration manuscripts and photographs. April 11 to Sept.
12.

Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth

Avenue at 82nd Street: Richard M. Hunt Exhibition on the architect of the Statue
of Liberty pedestal.

March 20 to June 15.

Jewish Museum, Fifth Avenue at 92nd

Street: ''The History of Jewish Immigration to America from Colonial Times to
the Present Day'' in a series of screenings from June 10 to Oct. 28.

Bronx County Historical Society, 3266

Bainbridge Avenue: ''The Ethnic Bronx: Study of Immigration Patterns.'' June 28
to Nov. 30. Nikon House, Fifth Avenue between 49th and 50th streets: ''Statue of
Liberty; Photographs by Peter B. Kaplan.'' July 1 to Aug. 2.

World Trade Center, 1 World Trade

Center lobby at Church and Dey streets: ''Images of Liberty,'' historic and
contemporary photos of the statue. July 2 to 27. International Center of
Photography, Fifth Avenue at 94th Street: ''Light on America: Photographs by Jay
Maisel Celebrating the Statue of Lberty and the American Landscape;'' and
''Liberty: the Statue and the American Dream;'' immigrant photos. Both exhibits,
June 27 to Aug. 31. American Museum of Immigration, Liberty Island: the first
permanent exhibit on the history of the Statue of Liberty and its emergence as a
worldwide symbol, with original artifacts, models, photographs. It is the
official exhibit of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation opening July
5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 13, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CANADA BEGINS ACTION TO DEPORT MAN TIED TO WESTCHESTER SLAYING

BYLINE: By JAMES FERON

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, March 12


Canadian authorities today began deportation proceedings against Alex J. Mengel,
who is wanted in Westchester County in connection with the slaying of Police
Officer Gary Stymiloski.

After nearly three hours of testimony behind closed doors in the Metro Toronto
East Detention Center, where the 30-year-old Bronx man is being held, a hearing
officer adjourned proceedings until March 19.

Mr. Mengel's lawyer, Michael Smith, said the only witness today was an
immigration officer who interviewed the prisoner after he was arrested here
March 2. The officer is to continue his testimony when the hearing is resumed
next week.

Mr. Smith said the immigration authorities ''are calling evidence to submit that
Mr. Mengel entered the country illegally.'' Canadian officials have said that
Mr. Mengel used false identification to cross the border.

Defense Request Denied

Mr. Smith said he had sought to have the hearing officer, J. D. Renning,
postpone the deportation proceedings ''until extradition is requested and a
proper extradition hearing is held.'' The request was denied.

Deportation will follow quickly, officials said, if the hearing officer rules
that Mr. Mengel was in Canada illegally. Extradition, a more complicated
process, could take weeks or months.

In addition to illegal-entry charges, Mr. Mengel also is facing criminal counts
of illegal weapons possession in Canada. But Kenneth Anthony, a deputy crown
attorney, has indicated that Canada would drop the gun charges, which were put
off yesterday until March. 18, if Mr. Mengel is ordered deported.

Mr. Smith would not describe the testimony given today and said he would wait
until the immigration case was complete before discussing his defense.

2 Witnesses Being Held

Mr. Mengel is accused of shooting Officer Stymiloski after he and three
companions were pulled over for a traffic violation on the Saw Mill River
Parkway Feb. 24. He is also a suspect in the disappeance of a Mount Vernon,
N.Y., woman, Beverly Capone, whose car he was driving when he was captured in
the Toronto suburb of Scarborough.

In Westchester, a man and woman from the Bronx were being held as material
witnesses in the County Jail at Valhalla because authorities doubt they would
respond to subpoenas for future court appearances, District Attorney Carl A.
Vergari said today.

The two witnesses, Raymond Jardine and Gloria Ramroop, have been identified as
two of the three passengers in the car driven by Mr. Mengel when it was stopped
by Officer Stymiloski. They were brought to the jail by county police officers
last week but are not charged with a crime, according to corrections officials.

Mr. Vergari said they could be detained until the conclusion of court
proceedings in the case. Material witnesses are held according to judicial order
and have a right to be represented by counsel and given bail, according to legal
experts.

No Time Limit

Other experts said there was no limit on how long a material witness could be
held under the state's criminal-procedure law. They said cases in which material
witnesses were held for a year were not unknown. A witness would normally be
excused after giving testimony.

Mr. Vergari would not answer questions about a third passenger in the Mengel
car, a man, or why the three passengers, all of whom have been interviewed by
law-enforcement officers, were not charged as accessories in the shooting.

''To explain it,'' Mr. Vergari said, ''would be to go into disclosure of
evidence that we don't think is right.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 24, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SAN FRANCISCO APPROVES BILL TO DESIGNATE IT A SANCTUARY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 23


The Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3 today to adopt a resolution declaring the
city a sanctuary for refugees from the Central American countries.

The board also approved, 11 to 0, an ordinance that would prevent the city from
investing in or entering into contracts with businesses with links to South
Africa.

Both measures must be approved upon a second reading in two weeks, after which
Mayor Dianne Feinstein will decide whether to sign them.

The sanctuary resolution tells city employees, including police officers, that
they need not report law-abiding Salvadorans or Guatemalans or cooperate with
the immigration authorities in arresting such people. An estimated 80,000 people
from Guatemala and El Salvador live in San Francisco.

Similar resolutions have been passed recently in Los Angeles, West Hollywood,
Berkeley, Chicago, St. Paul, and Cambridge, Mass., despite opposition from the
Reagan Administration.

''We are not asking anyone to do anything illegal,'' said Supervisor Nancy
Walker. ''We have got to extend our hand to these people. If these people go
home, they die. They are asking us to let them stay.''

Willie Kennedy, a co-sponsor of both ordinances, denied that the Supervisors
were ''meddling in foreign affairs.''

''I think we're dealing with human rights issues, not foreign affairs,'' she
said.

The sanctuary resolution says the police, like other officials, are not required
to help the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service find law-abiding
refugees.

Under Federal law, citizens are not required to report illegal aliens, except
for peace officers who observe the aliens entering the country, she said.

The ordinance is aimed at protecting refugees already in the United States from
being returned to their homelands, Supervisor Kennedy said.

Harold Ezell, the director of the western regional office of the immigration
service, last week called the proposal ''irresponsible activity'' and said
elected officials who support such actions are going ''against their oath to
uphold the law.'' He said that granting sanctuary to the refugees eventually
would cost taxpayers thousands of dollars in welfare benefits. He also has said
that people from such Central American countries enter the United States for
economic reasons, rather than to escape persecution.

The ordinance on South Africa investments, meant to protest that country's
policy of racial segregation, would exempt contracts worth less than $5,000 and
existing contracts with companies that have dealings in South Africa.

The companies that already have contracts with the city would be required to
divest themselves of their South Africa investments before their contracts could
be renewed.

Other exceptions would be contracts for goods produced only in South Africa or
in cases where the city treasurer had determined San Francisco would suffer
financially by avoiding a business with South Africa connections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 26, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ABROAD AT HOME;
The Quality of Mercy

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


One of America's glories is its tradition of welcome to the victims of war and
persecution in the world. From Jews fleeing czarist pogroms to Vietnamese boat
people, this country has opened its arms to refugee groups and individuals
seeking political asylum: the ''tempest-tossed,'' in Emma Lazarus's words on the
Statue of Liberty.

That generous tradition is defied today by U.S. Government policy toward
refugees from El Salvador. As manifested now in many different ways, the policy
is one of unrelenting harshness.

While other North and Central American countries give refuge to Salvadorans, the
United States sends them home as fast as possible. The Reagan Administration,
denying that there is any need for asylum, has done its best to suppress the
facts of continuing human rights violations in El Salvador. It has infiltrated
the asylum movement in this country, using paid informers to disrupt the effort
by churches, synagogues and others.

The relentless quality of the Government's attitude toward Salvadoran refugees
has been tellingly displayed in recent weeks in a Federal courtroom in Los
Angeles. There a trial has begun of a suit against Federal officials by a class
of Salvadorans in this country, represented by American Civil Liberties Union
lawyers and others.

The suit asks the court to make officers of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service do two things in dealing with Salvadorans found in this country: First,
advise them of their right to apply for political asylum here and their right to
consult a lawyer. Second, refrain from coercing them to leave without seeking
asylum. Those seem like mild requests. Surely the I.N.S. could live with them.
In fact, Federal District Judge David V. Kenyon issued a preliminary injunction
in 1982 ordering officials to tell Salvadorans their rights. The question now is
whether to make the injunction permanent.

But the Justice Department has strenuously resisted the lawsuit. It delayed for
two-and-one-half years before complying with an order by the judge to provide a
list of State Department documents on the human rights situation in El Salvador.
And then it indicated that it would ask Secretary of State Shultz to declare the
documents secret.

The list belatedly supplied to the court last month included documents with
titles strongly suggesting that they would be relevant to the case. Among them
were ''Prevalence of Torture,'' ''Death Squad Killings'' and ''Death-Squad
Connections With Salvadoran Expatriates In the U.S.''

How can U.S. officials maintain that there is nothing for Salvadoran refugees to
fear at home and at the same time try to keep the court from seeing such
documents? Could it be that they fear they would be shown to know about a
network of terror in El Salvador? Does George Shultz really want to endorse such
a position?

Elliott Abrams, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, was
questioned by deposition in the lawsuit. His answers showed extraordinary
indifference to official violence and lawlessness in El Salvador.

Mr. Abrams was asked about Decree 50, a Salvadoran order that suspends
Constitutional guarantees. Anyone who cares about human rights in that country
knows about Decree 50, and Mr. Abrams used to be Assistant Secretary for Human
Rights. He answered: ''It doesn't ring a bell.''

U.S. Representatives in El Salvador have been trying to eliminate death squad
activity, Mr. Abrams said, and they have ''succeeded.'' He said the Duarte
Government had ''progressed far enough to stop the human rights violations, but
not to prosecute people for old violations.''

The fact is that death-squad killings continue in El Salvador. Those murders and
disappearances and targeted assassinations by uniformed government forces have
averaged 30 a month this year.

Not a single member of the armed forces has been convicted or punished for
killing a Salvadoran. Current as well as Mr. Abrams' ''old violations'' go
unpunished. A commission set up by President Duarte 15 months ago to investigate
political killings has disbanded without doing a thing.

The issue in all this is not American foreign policy in El Salvador. It is human
decency toward innocent people who flee from brutal conditions in that country.
Why should United States officials deny that brutalities take place? Why should
they try to force people back without a hearing? What has happened to our
tradition of sympathy for refugees?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 15, 1986, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Judge Refuses Bail For Guru's Ex-Secretary

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Feb. 14


A Federal district judge refused today to set bail for the former personal
secretary of the Indian guru Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh. The former aide was
extradited from West Germany last week on Federal charges of immigration fraud
and state charges of conspiring to kill Mr. Rajneesh's physician.

The judge, Edward M. Leavy, said he would not set bail for the former secretary,
Ma Anand Sheela, 36 years old, in view of the seriousness of the charges against
her.

Miss Sheela has pleaded not guilty to the Federal charges but has not appeared
in court on the state charges. She was extradited along with two former
Rajneeshee leaders, Catherine Jane Elsea and Dianne Y. Onang. Both women, like
Miss Sheela, are charged with assault, conspiracy and the attempted murder of
Dr. Swami Devaraj last July. Their bail has been set at $10 million each.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 12, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

PRETORIA PREPARES PLANS TO EXPEL FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: By SHEILA RULE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Nov. 11


South Africa's Minister of Manpower said today that the Government was preparing
''contingency plans'' to send foreign black workers home in light of punitive
international economic measures against this embattled nation.

The move appeared to be a step toward carrying out threats by President P. W.
Botha in July to expel foreign black workers - South Africa has an estimated 1.5
million of them - in reprisal for international sanctions against the apartheid
system. The announcement came amid local press reports that the authorities
intended to immediately begin phased expulsions and confirmation of the decision
by mining and Government officials.

Some of these sources said tonight that the Government had apparently modified
its stance, for the time being, because of strong opposition from mining
companies, which employ many of the workers. But they added that the Government
seemed in its statement to be warning Western Governments that it was prepared
to take harsh action if international pressure on Pretoria is not eased.

The Minister of Manpower, P. T. C. du Plessis, said in a statement from Pretoria
that the Government had ''no immediate plan or desire to summarily'' expel large
numbers of the workers. But he said that the Government was constantly
monitoring the effect of sanctions and disinvestment and that there was a need
to consider contingency plans ''as part of the Government's overall long- and
short-term strategy for relieving unemployment in the face of disinvestment,
sanctions and boycotts.''

Retaliation Is Denied

''This action has been forced on the South African Government,'' Mr. du Plessis
said, adding that it should not be viewed as retaliation against neighboring
black-ruled nations.

''The instigators and proponents of sanctions, boycotts and disinvestment should
thus accept the blame and carry the moral responsibility for the resulting
hardship of millions.''

The United States and some other nations have applied limited sanctions,
including restrictions on bank loans, computer sales and nuclear exports.

Pretoria has repeatedly warned that this nation is the major stabilizing force
in southern Africa and that the imposition of punitive economic measures would
first hurt neighboring countries that are closely linked to its well-developed
economy. According to Government statistics, there are about 350,000 migrants,
primarily from Lesotho, Mozambique, Malawi, Botswana and Swaziland, who are
legally employed in South Africa, and about 1.2 million who are here illegally.
More than 80 percent of the legal workers are employed in South Africa's mines
and, under the terms of their contracts, must regularly send a portion of their
salaries home to support their families.

Remittances by Miners

The Chamber of Mines has estimated that foreign blacks working in its mines send
home the equivalent of about $100 million a year, which would be lost if the
Government carried out a major expulsion. One recent Government publication said
that some of the neighboring countries derive a substantial portion of their
national income from the remittances and that, in 1983, they accounted for more
than 50 percent of Lesotho's gross national product.

Mr. du Plessis said that the authorities were consulting with major employers of
foreign workers to develop plans should it become necessary to return the
workers to their countries. Most of the more than one million workers are
employed in agriculture and industry.

Mine owners reportedly met with the Government last week. Clive Knobbs,
president of the Chamber of Mines, said today before the Government's
announcement that a wholesale deportation would result in a ''horrific''
backlash that would damage national and international confidence in the nation's
mining industry. The National Union of Mine Workers, meanwhile, called the
threat of expulsion ''provocative'' and said it ''will not go unchallenged.''
The union represents at least 150,000 black miners and is regarded as the
country's strongest black labor group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 19, 1986, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

TWO CHURCHES VS. THE STATE IN SANCTUARY CASE

BYLINE: By Michael Wright and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 281 words


Should the Government be allowed to infiltrate a church during a criminal
investigation? That question is at the heart of a growing debate over the
prosecution of members of the sanctuary movement, which transports Central
American refugees into the United States and shelters them in churches and
homes.

The conflict came to a head last week when the American Lutheran Church and the
Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) filed suit in Federal District Court in Phoenix,
accusing the Government of violating the constitutional guarantees of religious
freedom; protection against unreasonable search and seizure, and due process of
law.

The accusations grow out of a 1984 investigation in Arizona during which Federal
agents and informers posing as volunteers secretly recorded church services as
well as meetings that included discussions of plans to smuggle refugees, who the
sanctuary activists say are fleeing political repression.

As a result of the investigation, 11 people, including two Roman Catholic
priests, a nun and a Protestant minister, are on trial, charged with conspiracy
and transporting and harboring illegal aliens.

Although religious groups have no right to act ''above the law,'' the
Presbyterian and Lutheran leaders said, the Government's tactics were ominous.
''The relationship between church and state has been threatened,'' said the Rev.
James E. Andrews of the Presbyterian Church. ''All American religious groups
have a stake in this matter.''

The Government argues that this is an ordinary alien-smuggling case with no
church-state overtones and that most Central American refugees are coming to the
United States for economic, not political, reasons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Rev. James E. Andrews (UPI)

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 3, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BREAKING UP GOVERNMENT'S MONOPOLY ON PRISON CELLS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words


WASHINGTON PRISON is a growth industry. The number of Americans behind bars has
doubled to 663,000 in the past decade, and experts predict more than $7 billion
will be spent on new facilities in the coming one. Sensing a market, private
companies have begun to play a larger role in what has generally been a public
function since the 19th century, when some states shipped convicts to
entrepreneurs who used them as slaves on plantations and in factories. There are
now about two dozen major correctional facilities under private ownership or
operation. The newest, a 175-bed detention center for illegal aliens operated by
the Corrections Corporation of America for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, is to open next week in Laredo, Tex. The company also runs a 350-bed
alien detention center in Houston, a 30-bed facility for the Federal Bureau of
Prisons in Fayetteville, N.C., and a 325-bed jail in Chattanooga, Tenn., whose
inmates range from murderers to drunken drivers. Two brothers, Charles and
Joseph Fenton, are building a $20 million, 715-cell maximum security
penitentiary north of Pittsburgh. Last week, Martin Tolchin, a reporter in the
Washington Bureau of The New York Times, asked two experts - James K. Stewart,
director of the National Institute of Justice, the research arm of the Justice
Department, and Mark A. Cunniff, executive director of the National Association
of Criminal Justice Planners, which represents officials in 75 major urban areas
- to discuss private prisons and their implications. Excerpts follow.


Cheaper, Better?

Question. What is the appeal of privately run prisons?

Answer.  We have enormous crowding in many of our prisons. Some are old and out
of date. As a result, the Federal Government, the states and local governments
are faced with either releasing prisoners or providing adequate facilities for
them. The private sector is able to meet the demand quicker. Construction of a
typical prison takes about 7 or 8 years if we go through the political process.
If built privately, it can be finished within a relatively short time, maybe 12
months. Second, we're very tight on public finances. Prisons cost about $100,000
a cell. The private sector, it has been suggested although not yet tested, can
build and maintain a prison for about 10 to 15 percent - maybe 20 percent -
less.



Q. How?



A.  They claim that they don't have to pay the extraordinary retirement benefits
of many public employees. They also believe that they can act quickly, without a
bidding process, so they can acquire property quicker and therefore save money.



Q. Are there other advantages?



A.  The private sector seeks to have the people who are imprisoned actively
employed, so they gain skills they can use later on. They can work for money, so
they can provide restitution for victims. Some pay the institution for some of
the cost of their incarceration as well as send money home. Chief Justice Warren
E. Burger is very supportive of the idea that, instead of having warehouses, we
ought to have factories within fences.



Q. A corrections officer has a say in the length of

prison terms, since he makes recommendations to parole

boards, and he can deprive inmates of basic privileges or even put them in
isolation wards. Should an employee of

a private organization be able to do this?



A.  The key is, are we providing adequate supervision? The opportunities for
innovation ought to be carefully explored, but thoroughly monitored to be sure
that abuses people are justifiably concerned about don't happen. We're not
giving our prisons over to an avaricious group that nobody watches. What we are
doing is contracting with private groups, as many cities and states are doing to
provide health care. Criminal justice has had a corner on the market for 150
years; now we're seeing all kinds of competition. I am a career police officer,
and I see it in the private security area, in the judges' area and in
corrections. The conflict comes if we delegate authority to a company and then
don't watch it.

The use of force is something that bothers me, but in fact in our society we
delegate it regularly to nongovernment entities - in the private security area,
in stores and banks, in hospitals and psychiatric wards. Sheriffs seem to be
very supportive of the idea that the private sector can operate honor farms and
halfway houses. And many sheriffs think private companies could even run maximum
security facilities. But the sheriffs say that in no case should private
organizations take in a prisoner and set bail. That has to be a governmental
decision.


The State's Role

Question. Is there a conflict between the profit motive and the pursuit of
justice?

Answer.  The nature of the conflict has to do with the competing goals of
criminal justice and corrections. Criminal justice, despite what private
contractors may maintain, is concerned with costs. But cost is not the sole
concern of corrections.

When you bring in a private, for-profit firm - and since it is for-profit, its
main goal is to make money - cost effectiveness and efficiency come to the fore.
The main concern is how to turn a profit at the end of the year, and that means
looking to cut costs. For a governmental entity, the driving force is the
general welfare of the society.



Q. If prisons have been badly underfunded and have deteriorated, wouldn't
privatization be a remedy?



A.  Criminal justice has to compete with a lot of other functions government is
trying to perform - roads, education, medical care - and legislators are very
reluctant to make a decision that gets down to, ''Yes, we're going to build an
extra hundred prison beds, but in order to do that we're going to have to close
down a school.''

I am never going to argue against efficiency in the criminal justice system. I
would welcome the private sector to come in, on a contractual basis, to consult
with a department of corrections on how to manage resources. But efficiency is
only one of the values we're dealing with in the administration of justice -
fairness, propriety, equity under the law are others to consider.



Q. Can't a a private company be fair?



A.  I have a problem in terms of propriety. One of the state's basic functions
is to pass laws and enforce them. And part of enforcing the law is to mete out
punishment when people violate it. It's a sad statement when someone is found
guilty and a goverment says, ''We're going to send you to prison, but we don't
feel we're competent enough to run the prison, so we're going to turn to the
private sector and have them administer the punishment.''

Q. Then you don't agree with Mr. Stewart that private companies should be given
a chance to run medium

and maximum security facilities.



A.  There has been a fairly large involvement by private, not-for-profit
corporations in community-based corrections. But you have to remember, with
community-based corrections we're not dealing with operations that have as a
constant threat the use of force. A person consents to go into such a program,
and if he does not abide by the rules the state can send him back to prison. We
are beginning to see private firms take over minimum security facilities,
basically under contract with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. I have
severe reservations about that. And for secure facilities, I think it is an
inappropriate response on the part of government to one of its most basic
responsibilities. The nature of corrections in a secured detention facility is
the deprivation of our most precious possession in a democracy - freedom. A
person is totally controlled: told when to get up, when to eat, when to get
washed and so on. The institution is able to do that by the constant threat of
force. Force may be rarely invoked, but it's ever present. When you see the
tower guards, you know there's somebody up there with a gun telling you you
cannot go over the wall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart of annual inmate costs; Photo of Mark A. Cunniff; Photo of James
K. Stewart; Photo of inmates

TYPE: Interview

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 7, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Defense Motions Argued In Alien-Smuggling Trial

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Nov. 6


Attorneys for 11 defendants accused of smuggling refugees from Central America
into the United States argued today that charges against their clients should be
dismissed because their indictments contained legal flaws.

Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll began hearing arguments on a variety of
defense motions in the case, a process that is expected to last through the
week. He did not indicate when he would rule on any of them.

The defendants, all members of the sanctuary movement, are accused of conspiring
to smuggle, transport, harbor or otherwise aid Central Americans seeking to
enter the United States illegally.

Jury selection in the case was completed Tuesday. If the defense efforts to have
the charges dropped fail, opening arguments could begin next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 266 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 19, 1986, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

3 WITNESSES FOUND IN CONTEMPT FOR REFUSING TO TESTIFY ON ALIENS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 24, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Feb. 18


A Federal judge today held three potential witnesses in contempt of court for
refusing to testify here in the alien-smuggling trial of 11 church workers. The
three were ordered confined to their homes for the duration of the trial.

The order, which came from Federal District Judge Earl H. Carroll, takes effect
one week from today, pending emergency appeals to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco.

In refusing to testify against the church workers, who are charged with
conspiracy to smuggle Central Americans into the United States, the witnesses
said First Amendment guarantees of free exercise of religion protected them.

But Judge Carroll, who earlier said he did not find that religious rights
outweighed the prosecution's need to gather evidence, ordered the witnesses
confined. Promises of immunity, which have been granted to other witnesses, did
not persuade the church workers to testify against their colleagues, who work in
a national movement offering sanctuary to Central Americans.

The three held in contempt were Mary Ann Lundy, a 53-year-old ordained elder in
the Presbyterian Church, and an affiliate of the Riverside Church in New York;
Kay Kelly, a 62-year-old deacon at Southside Presbyterian Church in Tucson, and
the Rev. George Lockwood, a 39-year-old pastor of Menlo Park United Methodist
Church in Tucson.

'I Choose Not to Testify'

With the jury dismissed today, Mrs. Lundy, in response to questions from the
prosecutor, Donald M. Reno, said three times: ''I choose not to testify on the
basis of my First Amendment right to freedom of religion, and I invoke the
privilege as a Presbyterian elder not to speak against my faith community.''

The contempt citations came at the request of Mr. Reno, who argued that it was
the duty of every citizen to testify.

As Mrs. Kelly returned to her seat in the courtroom, the 15 defense lawyers, 11
defendants and four dozen sympathizers stood as a mark of respect. When the same
thing happened after Mrs. Lundy was cited, Judge Carroll admonished the
courtroom to refrain from ''any further displays'' of support.

In a related matter, Mr. Reno accused the defendants and witnesses of
''collusion'' in a ''clear attempt to frustrate, break down and confuse this
prosecution.'' Mr. Reno added that because of this and a ''daily blizzard of
motions and memos'' from the defense, the Government's case had been
''substantially confused.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company
