
                               1 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Settlement Aids Detainees in Los Angeles

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Federal immigration officials have settled a lawsuit that claimed people
suspected of being illegal immigrants were kept in ''barbaric'' conditions in a
downtown Los Angeles detention center, civil rights groups announced Wednesday.

The federal court agreement restricts detention at the facility to 12 hours at a
stretch except under unusual circumstances like epidemics or natural disasters.
It requires that detainees be provided with soap, access to lawyers and writing
materials for those who need to prepare legal documents.

The agreement, which applies only to the downtown facility and runs until June
of next year, ''restores detainees' dignity and their right to due process,''
said Ahilan T. Arulanantham, director of immigrants' rights and national
security for the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. ''It is
one step, but an important one, in correcting our severely broken immigration
detention system nationwide.''

The A.C.L.U., the National Immigration Law Center and a private law firm claimed
that the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency maintained
overcrowded and squalid conditions in B-18, a temporary holding center  in the
basement of a downtown federal building.

But a statement from the groups said many of the problems were corrected after
the lawsuit was filed in April.

Detainees have included illegal immigrants, others who have overstayed visas,
felons fighting deportation after completing prison terms and some who have
pending claims for political asylum.

The lawsuit asserted that B-18 has held 200 or more people at a time. Immigrants
are not supposed to be held at the detainee center for more than 12 consecutive
hours because it has no beds. The lawsuit contended that some detainees were
held for 20 hours or more, slept on the floor and drank from a sink because
there was no other water source.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 12, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Napolitano Focuses on Immigration Enforcement, Not Overhaul

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 619 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


A day after President Obama announced that legislation to overhaul immigration
laws would have to wait until next year, the secretary of homeland security
played down the need for change in a speech here and took a tough stance on
enforcing current immigration laws.

The secretary, Janet Napolitano, defended the administration's assertive
strategy against illegal immigrants and companies that employ them, relying
largely on programs started under President George W. Bush.

That strategy has drawn fire from immigrant groups and many of Mr. Obama's
Hispanic supporters, who say the president has not lived up to campaign promises
to ease the pressure on illegal workers and to seek changes in immigration laws
that would give more workers visas.

But Ms. Napolitano argued that the Obama administration had changed Mr. Bush's
programs in critical ways, such as putting an emphasis on deporting criminals
and holding more employers responsible for hiring illegal workers.

''Make no mistake, our overall approach is very, very different,'' she said
Tuesday at a conference on border security at the University of Texas, El Paso.
''It is more strategic, more cooperative, more multilateral and, in the long
run, more effective.''

Ms. Napolitano said security problems on the border were inextricably linked not
only to the drug trade, but also to the problem of illegal workers in far-flung
cities across the country. The government needs to address illegal immigration
at the same time it attacks the Mexican mafias, she said.

Her remarks disappointed advocates for immigrants, who questioned whether
increasing enforcement would improve security as much as overhauling immigration
laws would.

''How many more millions if not billions of dollars are we going to put into the
border without fixing the immigration system?'' asked Ali Noorani, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum.Joshua Hoyt, executive director of
the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, said of Ms. Napolitano,
''She's increasing enforcement of laws that President Obama and she have both
said are broken, and the result is going to be a lot of human misery.''

Ms. Napolitano and other administration officials have argued that a tough
stance on illegal immigration is necessary to convince American voters to accept
a wider overhaul that would give legal status to millions of foreigners.

Still, the speech was notable for its lack of a single passage about the
positive role many illegal immigrants play in society, a concession that has
become standard in most political pronouncements from Democrats on the subject.

Ms. Napolitano pointed to the buildup of federal agents on the border as part of
the fight against drug dealers, saying the nation must take advantage of a
historic level of cooperation with Mexico under President Felipe Calderon to
stamp out organized crime.

This year, she said, the government has seized more than $69 million in drug
money, 2.4 million pounds of drugs, 95,000 rounds of ammunition and about 500
assault rifles, far more than last year.

''But border security will not itself stop illegal entrants into our country,''
Ms. Napolitano said. ''Our border strategy must be combined with better
enforcement of the immigration laws within the United States.''

On that score, she pointed out that the Obama administration had outdone the
Bush White House. Immigration agents have arrested 181,000 illegal immigrants
and deported 215,000 people so far this year. Both figures are double what they
were for the same period two years ago, she said.

But Ms. Napolitano said she had shifted the emphasis away from arresting
immigrants who have not broken other laws.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, speaking in
El Paso on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBEN R. RAMIREZ/ EL PASO TIMES, VIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants' Rights Were Violated, Judge Says

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: HARTFORD


Federal agents violated the constitutional rights of four illegal immigrants in
raids that New Haven officials say were retaliation for a city program that
provided ID cards to foreigners in the country illegally, a federal immigration
judge has ruled.

The raids took place in New Haven on June 6, 2007, two days after the city
approved issuing identification cards to all city residents, regardless of
immigration status, to help immigrants open bank accounts and receive city
services. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials denied that the
early-morning raids were retaliatory, saying that they started planning them the
previous year.

The judge, Michael Straus, said in decisions here last week that the  agents
entered the immigrants' homes without warrants, probable cause or consent; he
put a stop to deportation proceedings against the four, whose names were not
released. Immigration officials said all four are from Mexico, but the
defendants cited their Fifth Amendment rights in refusing to say what country
they are from.

Two of them lived in one home, and two in a second. They said in affidavits that
agents barged into both homes after residents had opened their doors only a
little. Using a ''target list,'' the agents went into the homes looking for
specific illegal immigrants, whom they did not find, court documents said.

Immigration officials have denied claims that the 32 arrests made that morning
were improper, and said that the people arrested had been ordered by judges to
leave the country. They said in court documents that they were allowed into the
homes during the raids.

Immigration authorities are reviewing the judge's ruling and will decide later
whether to appeal, said an agency spokeswoman, Paula Grenier, who declined
further comment.

Witnesses said in court documents that parents were arrested in front of their
frightened children. They said agents refused to identify themselves and told
people in the homes to remain silent.

In his rulings, Judge Straus said the four immigrants' rights had been
''egregiously violated.''

''The touchstone of the Fourth Amendment is 'reasonableness' and, by natural
extension, one's reasonable expectation of privacy,'' the judge wrote of the
constitutional amendment that guarantees against unreasonable searches and
seizures. ''Nowhere is that expectation of privacy more sacrosanct than in the
confines of one's home.''

Of the 32 people arrested, 30 were released on bond or supervision orders.
Seventeen of those released challenged their arrests in court. Judge Straus
denied motions in 11 of those cases, granted motions in 4 and reserved decision
in the remaining 2. Of the 11 cases in which motions were denied, one person was
granted asylum by the judge and the other 10 have appealed.

Yale Law School students are representing the immigrants, who still live in New
Haven.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

San Francisco at a Crossroads on Immigration

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1151 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


In the debate over illegal immigration, San Francisco has proudly played the
role of liberal enclave, a so-called sanctuary city where local officials have
refused to cooperate with enforcement of federal immigration law and
undocumented residents have mostly lived without fear of consequence.

But over the last year, buffeted by several high-profile crimes by illegal
immigrants and revelations of mismanagement of the city's sanctuary policy, San
Francisco has become less like its self-image and more like many other cities in
the United States: deeply conflicted over how to cope with the fallout of
illegal immigration.

At the center of the turnaround is a new law enforcement policy focused on
under-age offenders who are in this country illegally. Under the policy, minors
brought to juvenile hall on felony charges are questioned about their
immigration status. And if they are suspected of being here illegally, they are
reported to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency for deportation,
regardless of whether they are eventually convicted of  a crime.

''We went from being one of the more progressive counties in the country to
probably one of the least, and the most draconian,'' said Abigail Trillin, the
managing attorney with Legal Services for Children, a nonprofit legal group.
''It's been a total turnaround.''

Mayor Gavin Newsom, who ordered the new policy, disputes that characterization
and ticks off a list of policies  that remain immigrant friendly: the issuing of
identification cards to residents regardless of legal status, the promotion of
low-cost banking and the city's longstanding opposition to immigration raids.

''I'm balancing safety and rights,'' Mr. Newsom said. ''And I'm taking the
arrows.''

The policy was put in place last summer amid a series of embarrassing
revelations about the city's handling of illegal minors and even as reports
arose of several serious crimes committed by illegal residents. The policy has
led not only to dozens of juveniles in deportation proceedings, but also to
criticism from the city's public defender and members of its Board of
Supervisors, which is threatening to relax it next month.

''I think the point of sanctuary is that you protect people and treat people the
same unless they engage in some felony crime,'' said David Campos, a county
supervisor who came illegally to the United States from his native Guatemala
when he was 14.

The new approach has pitted a growing coalition of immigrants rights groups
against Mr. Newsom, who is running for governor in a state where immigrants,
particularly Latinos, can be vital to being elected.

Mr. Newsom defends the policy as an effort to bring the city's juvenile protocol
in line with that for adult illegal immigrants, who have always been reported to
federal authorities if they are accused of a felony.

But immigration advocates say the policy has too often swept up juveniles who
are in this country illegally but who are innocent or held on minor charges, a
list that includes young men like Roberto, 14, who has lived in the United
States since he was 2.

Roberto, whose last name is being withheld at the request of his parents who are
also in the country illegally, was handed over to immigration authorities last
fall after he took a BB gun to  school to show off to friends. He spent
Christmas at a juvenile facility in Washington State and is now facing
deportation to Mexico, where he was born.

The experience left Roberto shaken. ''I was feeling really scared,'' he said in
an interview here.

Supporters of the new crackdown say that Roberto's case is unrepresentative and
that the majority of youths turned over to the immigration authorities have
engaged in serious crimes, including those associated with the practice by
Honduran drug gangs in San Francisco of using minors as dealers.

''A lot of them have histories; a lot of them are second, third chances,'' Mr.
Newsom said. ''This is not as touchy feely as some people may want to make it.''

Mr. Newsom says he still supports the sanctuary ordinance, which  grew out of
worries in the 1980s about the deportation of Central Americans to war-torn
regions. Made city law in 1989, the policy forbids city agencies to use
resources to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law or information
gathering.

While proponents say such policies help the police by making immigrant
communities -- often suspicious of the authorities -- more comfortable with
reporting crimes, critics say San Francisco's policy had been stretched to
extremes, including the practice of occasionally flying some offenders back to
their home countries rather than cooperating with immigration authorities.

Mr. Newsom says he discovered and stopped that practice in May 2008, and quickly
ordered a review. Juvenile referrals began shortly thereafter and were
formalized as policy in August.

In the interim, however, The San Francisco Chronicle reported that a group of
teenage Honduran crack dealers who had been sent to a group home  simply walked
away from confinement.

A second event was more serious, when a father and two sons driving home from a
picnic were killed in a case of mistaken identity in June 2008. The police later
charged Edwin Ramos, an illegal immigrant from El Salvador and suspected gang
member who had had run-ins with the San Francisco police as a juvenile but had
not been turned over to the immigration authorities.

At the same time, San Francisco found itself under criminal investigation by the
United States attorney for the Northern District of California, and city
officials were eager to show that their city was not a lawless haven for
illegal-immigrant criminals.

''If we start harboring criminals as a sanctuary city, this entire system is in
peril,'' Mr. Newsom said.

For their part, immigration advocates say they are not asking the city to
shelter felonious youths from deportation. The problem, they say, is the point
of contact: at arrest, rather than after any sort of legal adjudication.

''Even if you're undocumented, you have the right to due process,'' said Jeff
Adachi, the city's public defender.

The federal authorities, meanwhile, have been pleasantly surprised that the new
policy has resulted in more than 100 referrals.

''We are now getting routine referrals,'' said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for
the immigration agency.

The most serious challenge to the policy is likely to come in July, when the
Board of Supervisors is expected to take up a proposal that would apply the
policy only to illegal juveniles found in court to have committed a felony. The
measure's sponsor, Mr. Campos, said he expected it to pass.

Such an ordinance would not help Roberto, who is still waiting to plead his case
to an immigration judge. He said he had already learned a valuable lesson.

''I will never bring anything to school again,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roberto, 14, left, an illegal immigrant along with his parents,
faces deportation after being handed over to immigration  authorities for taking
a BB gun to school last fall to show it off to his friends. He is waiting to
plead his case before an immigration judge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 2, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Big-City Police Chiefs Urge Overhaul of Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Seeking to inject their views into the revived debate over immigration overhaul,
several big-city police chiefs urged Congress on Wednesday to draft a new policy
that improves public safety by bringing illegal immigrants out of the shadows.

The chiefs -- updating recommendations made in 2006 by the leaders of more than
50 urban police departments -- called for an overhaul that would integrate
immigrants into the legal system, possibly with driver's licenses, and  separate
the local police from immigration enforcement.

''We're in the business of delivering a police service whether the person has
had a car accident, been a victim of a crime, or been a witness to a crime,''
said Chief John Timoney of the Miami Police Department.

He added that immigrants needed to come forward without fearing ''that they are
going to wind up being reported to federal authorities and deported.''

Chief Timoney, Chief Art Acevedo of the Austin Police Department in Texas and
former Chief Art Venegas of the Sacramento Police Department said local law
enforcement had been undermined by the blurred line between crimes and
violations of immigration law, which are civil.

Those who call illegal immigrants ''criminals,'' they said at a news conference
here, are misreading the law and hurting their own communities by scaring
neighbors who could identify criminals.

''When you remove the emotion from the debate,'' Chief Acevedo said, ''no one
can argue that it is in the best interest of public safety to keep these people
living in the shadows.''

The police chiefs here, having spent most of their careers in cities with large
immigrant communities, said it would be impossible to send the nation's 10
million to 15 million illegal residents home. They criticized last year's
roundups of illegal immigrants at workplaces, and the federal 287(g) program
that has given at least 63 police departments a role in deporting illegal
immigrants.

They said they favored tough border enforcement and efforts to prosecute
employers who rely on illegal foreign-born workers. But they insisted that local
law enforcement be kept apart from immigration enforcement because such agencies
lacked the training and time, especially with recent budget cuts.

''It's a matter of resources and priority,'' said Chief Acevedo, who was born in
Cuba and oversees a department of 2,100 officers. ''My priority is dealing with
criminals and terrorism issues, not dealing with civil matters.''

Jessica M. Vaughan, a senior policy analyst with the Center for Immigration
Studies, which favors tougher immigration enforcement, said the chiefs were
misguided.

The costs  for local police are often minimal, Ms. Vaughan said, because the
federal government pays jailing costs, and verifying immigration status can be
done in conjunction with standard checks of criminal databases.

Immigrants are less likely to report crimes, she added, because of language
barriers, a lack of understanding about American law, and a general distrust of
authority stemming from  corruption in their home countries.

''None of this is related to fear of deportation,'' she said.

Still, Chief Timoney managed to find an example. He said that  in the last few
years -- after Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, came to Miami to
rally support for an immigration  bill that never passed -- immigrants have been
more hesitant to cooperate with the police. Some have even suggested that the
department remove the words ''homeland security'' from its vehicles because
immigrants think they are about to be detained.

''The problem for us is they don't discern between federal authorities and local
authorities,'' Chief Timoney said. ''As far as they're concerned it's all law
enforcement.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chief John Timoney of the Miami police backed changes.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE SKIPPER/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A More Narrow Focus for Enforcement Program

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
12

LENGTH: 129 words


The Obama administration will expand a program that extends federal immigration
enforcement authority to state and local police, but will focus it more sharply
on capturing illegal immigrants who committed serious crimes, homeland security
officials said. Officials said they would sign new, uniform agreements with 66
local jurisdictions that already have the program and with 11 new ones,
formalizing the priority on pursuing ''dangerous criminal aliens'' but also
specifying the powers granted to police and providing for new oversight by the
Department of Homeland Security. Some advocates for immigrants  have criticized
the program, known as 287(g) after the law that set it up, as creating fear of
the police by sweeping up illegal immigrants with no criminal record.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Firm Stance on Illegal Immigrants Remains Policy Under Obama

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1198 words


After early pledges by President Obama that he would moderate the Bush
administration's tough policy on immigration enforcement, his administration is
pursuing an aggressive strategy for an illegal-immigration crackdown that relies
significantly on programs started by his predecessor.

A recent blitz of measures has antagonized immigrant groups and many of Mr.
Obama's Hispanic supporters, who have opened a national campaign against them,
including small street protests in New York and Los Angeles last week.

The administration recently undertook audits of employee paperwork at hundreds
of businesses, expanded a program to verify worker immigration status that has
been widely criticized as flawed, bolstered a program of cooperation between
federal and local law enforcement agencies, and rejected proposals for legally
binding rules governing conditions in immigration detention centers.

''We are expanding enforcement, but I think in the right way,'' Janet
Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, said in an interview.

Ms. Napolitano and other administration officials argue that no-nonsense
immigration enforcement is necessary to persuade American voters to accept
legislation that would give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants, a
measure they say Mr. Obama still hopes to advance late this year or early next.

That approach brings Mr. Obama around to the position that his Republican rival,
Senator John McCain of Arizona, espoused during last year's presidential
campaign, a stance Mr. Obama rejected then as too hard on Latino and immigrant
communities. (Mr. McCain did not respond to requests for comment.) Now the
enforcement strategy has opened a political rift with some immigrant advocacy
and Hispanic groups whose voters were crucial to the Obama victory.

''Our feelings are mixed at best,'' said Clarissa Martinez De Castro,
immigration director of the National Council of La Raza, which has joined in the
criticism, aimed primarily at Ms. Napolitano. ''We understand the need for
sensible enforcement, but that does not mean expanding programs that often led
to civil rights violations.''

Under Ms. Napolitano, immigration authorities have backed away from the Bush
administration's frequent mass factory roundups of illegal immigrant workers.
But federal criminal prosecutions for immigration violations have actually
increased this year, according to a study by the Transactional Records Access
Clearinghouse, a nonpartisan group that analyzes government data. In April,
there were 9,037 immigration cases in the federal courts, an increase of 32
percent over April 2008, the group found.

Ms. Napolitano said in the interview that she would not call off immigration
raids entirely as some Hispanic lawmakers have suggested. ''We will continue to
enforce the law and to look for effective ways to do it,'' she said. ''That's my
job.''

Ms. Napolitano, who as governor of Arizona sparred with Republican legislators
seeking tougher steps against illegal immigration, said she was looking for ways
to make enforcement programs inherited from President George W. Bush less
heavy-handed. She also wants to put the enforcement focus on illegal-immigrant
gang members and convicts and on employers who routinely hire illegal immigrants
so as to exploit them.

Immigration authorities have started audits of employees' hiring documents at
more than 600 businesses nationwide. If an employer shows a pattern of hiring
immigrants whose documents cannot be verified, a criminal investigation could
follow, Ms. Napolitano said.

She has also expanded a federal program, known as E-Verify, that allows
employers to verify electronically the identity information of new hires.
Immigrant and business groups have sued to try to stop the program, saying the
databases it relies on are riddled with inaccuracies that could lead to American
citizens' being denied jobs.

But officials of the Homeland Security Department say technological improvements
have enhanced the speed and accuracy of E-Verify. With 137,000 employers now
enrolled, only 0.3 percent of 6.4 million queries they have made so far in the
2009 fiscal year have resulted in denials that later proved incorrect, the
officials say. That, opponents note, still means false denials for more than
19,000 people.

In addition, Ms. Napolitano has expanded a program that runs immigration checks
on every person booked into local jails in some cities. And she recently
announced the expansion of another program, known as 287(g) for the provision of
the statute authorizing it, that allows for cooperation between federal
immigration agents and state and local police agencies.

In extending 287(g), federal officials also drew up a new agreement, which all
of some 66 localities currently participating have been asked to sign, that is
intended to enhance federal oversight and clarify the priority on deporting
those immigrants who are criminal fugitives or are already behind bars.

But advocates for immigrants said the  new agreement did not include strong
protections against ethnic profiling. They were surprised, they say, that Ms.
Napolitano did not terminate the cooperation agreement with the sheriff of
Maricopa County, Ariz., Joe Arpaio, who calls himself the ''toughest sheriff in
America.'' Latino groups in Arizona have accused Mr. Arpaio of using the program
to harass Hispanic residents.

''If they reform the 287(g) program and Arpaio doesn't change, it won't be
reform,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a national
immigrant advocacy group.

Ms. Napolitano said it would be up to Mr. Arpaio, like other current
participants, to decide whether to sign and abide by the new cooperation
agreement. Separately, the Justice Department has opened a civil rights
investigation of Mr. Arpaio's practices.

The Obama administration has received support for its immigration position from
a leading Democrat, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the chairman of the
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, who will be writing an immigration
overhaul bill later this year.

In preparation for what is likely to be a furious debate, Mr. Schumer has called
on Democrats to show that they are serious about immigration enforcement and is
even asking them to stop using the term ''undocumented'' to refer to immigrants
who are here illegally.

Democrats have to ''convince the American people there will not be new waves of
illegal immigrants'' after an overhaul passes, Mr. Schumer said in an interview.

Republicans who oppose any legalization of the status of illegal immigrants say
they remain unimpressed by the new enforcement measures.

''After 20 years of broken promises, it takes a lot more than token gestures,''
said Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a California Republican who heads an
immigration caucus in the House.

Michael A. Olivas, a professor of immigration law at the University of Houston,
said Hispanic advocates were irked by the enforcement measures because they had
seen scant sign that the administration was also moving deliberately toward an
overhaul bill.

''We literally have the worst of all worlds,'' Professor Olivas said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An illegal immigrant from Guatemala waited in Phoenix last
month to board a plane for deportation to his home country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS)
Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security, with a ''special response
team'' of immigration agents in San Diego. (POOL PHOTO BY LENNY IGNELZI)
 Ms. Napolitano's visit to New York last week was accompanied by protests
against federal policy on illegal immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A.
CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 8, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Company That Harbored Illegal Immigrants Is Fined

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
12

LENGTH: 130 words


A Texas bakery supply company that pleaded guilty to harboring illegal
immigrants will pay a criminal fine of $250,000 and forfeit $1.3 million to
federal immigration authorities, according to a sentence imposed by a federal
judge in Houston. Three managers from the company, Shipley Do-Nut Flour and
Supply, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of hiring unauthorized
workers and will pay small fines. The company will remain under court
supervision for three years. In a raid in April 2008 at the company's Houston
plant, 27 illegal immigrant workers were arrested who were living in housing
supplied by the company. Immigration officials cited the case as an example of
their use of tough forfeiture provisions to punish employers who knowingly hire
unauthorized workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 6, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Health Care Debate Revives Immigration Battle

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1132 words


The Obama administration took an overhaul of the country's immigration laws off
its legislative agenda this year, but the prickly issue of public benefits for
illegal immigrants has resurfaced in the health care debate.

During the summer recess, members of Congress faced persistent questions from
constituents worried that health care changes could leave taxpayers footing
medical bills for illegal immigrants. President Obama has not been able to
extinguish the doubts despite giving repeated assurances that illegal immigrants
would be excluded from any subsidized benefits under proposals before Congress.

Democratic lawmakers, growing exasperated, have taken to reading directly from
the House and the Senate bills at town-hall-style meetings.

''I don't know how it could be more clear,'' said Representative Bruce Braley,
Democrat of Iowa, who has read aloud from a section of the House bill with the
title ''No Federal Payment for Undocumented Aliens.''

Republicans argue that some of the voters' concerns are justified because, they
say, the proposals before Congress do not spell out procedures to verify the
citizenship of those who would receive health coverage.

After testing their ideas with voters during the recess, Republicans said they
would press for verification measures when the health care debate picks up again
in Washington.

''The language is there, but without the verification you can't frankly believe
it is serious,'' said Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, who added
that concerns about illegal immigrants were clearly on the minds of citizens he
met in his district. Mr. Smith said Democrats ''intentionally left gaping
loopholes'' in the proposals that illegal immigrants could step through.

Broad explanations, not intricate detail, were what voters in Georgia were
looking for in recent meetings with Representative Phil Gingrey, a Republican
who was a practicing physician in the state for 26 years. Mr. Gingrey said there
had been an influx of illegal immigrants in his district in the last decade.

''A lot of their kids are in the school system,'' Mr. Gingrey said in a
telephone interview. ''They get a free public education without any question. My
constituents don't want the same thing to happen with regard to health care.''

Mr. Gingrey said the prohibitions against illegal immigrants in the bills were
''reassuring,'' but he, too, suggested that eligibility verification remained
weak. According to local news reports, Mr. Gingrey drew cheers in one meeting
when he said he would work to make sure the health plan did not become a magnet
drawing new illegal immigrants to the United States.

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the top Republican on the Finance
Committee, which is currently reviewing the proposal in the Senate, said the
House bill was ''so poorly cobbled together'' that it would have the
''unintended consequence'' of access for illegal immigrants.

Mr. Grassley said he would push to include citizenship verification for all
applicants as part of a broad renegotiation of the Senate proposal when Congress
reconvenes.

Democrats reacted sharply to the prospect of a fight over verification. Senator
Max Baucus of Montana, chairman of the Finance Committee, said citizenship
checks already included in federal programs like Medicaid would be preserved in
new legislation. He said the health care debate should not be a forum for a
battle over immigration.

As a result of a 2005 law, Medicaid, the federal low-income health program, now
requires all applicants to verify their citizenship. Current health care
proposals would expand Medicaid to more families, keeping the
proof-of-citizenship requirements.

Democrats are reluctant to expand those requirements to everyone seeking
insurance under a health care overhaul, because several studies on the impact on
Medicaid have found that citizenship verification increased administrative costs
for states and made it difficult for some American citizens to join the program.

Many of those left out were elderly patients, who did not have originals of
identity documents that the 2005 law demands.

''Many states view the proof of citizenship as very onerous on American
families,'' said Diane Rowland, executive director of the Commission on Medicaid
and the Uninsured at the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, speaking of the
Medicaid requirements.

In six states that were reviewed in 2007 by the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, verification increased federal costs by $8.3 million, but
only eight illegal immigrants were detected on the Medicaid rolls of the states.

Some of the concerns raised at public meetings about the health care bills seem
to be grounded in misleading information in the news media and on the Internet
from conservative opponents of the overhaul. In one example broadcast last week
on Fox News, the conservative host Sean Hannity said that a Congressional
Research Service report had concluded that the current plan before the House of
Representatives ''does not contain any restrictions on noncitizens,'' whether or
not they had lawful immigration status.

In fact, the report issued Aug. 25 by the research service, a nonpartisan arm of
the Library of Congress, states that ''unauthorized aliens would be barred''
from receiving any federal subsidies under the measure.

The report, like the vast bill it analyzes, is too complex to be summarized in a
sound bite. For example, the report finds that the House bill would not prohibit
illegal immigrants from enrolling in a health insurance exchange. The exchange
would allow participants to buy coverage from one of several plans, including a
public option offered by the federal government.

At the same time, illegal immigrants would not be exempt from the obligations in
the House bill. According to the research service, most illegal immigrants in
the country would be required to buy health insurance or face tax penalties.

And since they would be barred from subsidies, they would have to pay for
coverage at full rates, regardless of their income level.

Confusion has arisen among voters over the extent of public care for illegal
immigrants partly because they have observed that many immigrants go to hospital
emergency rooms for treatment. Under existing law, emergency rooms must treat
any patients needing care, including illegal immigrants. Hospitals receive some
federal money for those emergency services.

Public health researchers say that it could be counterproductive to bar illegal
immigrants entirely from public care. ''They're here, and they get sick,'' said
Ms. Rowland of the Kaiser Foundation.

Citing the current swine flu pandemic, she said, ''The H1N1 flu doesn't know
about immigration status when it attacks.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Charles E. Grassley, a Republican, at a town-hall-style
meeting in Iowa recently, argues that the House bill is ''so poorly cobbled
together'' that it will allow access for illegal immigrants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE
POPE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Max Baucus, right, a Democrat, meeting with a constituent in Montana,
says citizenship verification checks that are already in place for programs like
Medicaid would be preserved.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNE SHERWOOD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Washington: Fine In Immigration Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NORTHWEST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 105 words


Two owners of a Bellingham company will not have to go to prison for hiring
illegal immigrants, but the business was ordered to pay a $100,000 fine. A
guilty plea was entered in Federal District Court on behalf of Yamato Engine
Specialists 1990 Ltd. The two owners -- Shafique Amirali Dhanani and his sister,
Shirin Dhanani Makala -- pleaded guilty last month and were sentenced to a year
of probation. Yamato was the first workplace to be raided by immigration agents
after President Obama took office. Mr. Obama had called for less emphasis on
prosecuting illegal immigrants and more on prosecuting the businesses that hire
them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Stories, From Shadows to Spotlight

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1124 words


Frail and dignified at 88, the man leaned on his cane and smiled as the story of
his immigration in 1936 flashed behind him on a museum wall. Like tens of
thousands of others who managed to come to the United States from China during a
60-year period when the law singled them out for exclusion, the man, Tun Funn
Hom, had entered as a ''paper son,'' with false identity papers that claimed his
father was a native citizen.

For years, it was a shameful family secret. But Mr. Hom, a New York laundry
worker who helped build battleships in World War II and put three children
through college, outlived the stigma of an earlier era's immigration fraud.

A narrow legalization program let him reclaim his true name in the 1950s. His
life story is now on permanent display at the Museum of Chinese in America,
which reopened last week at 215 Centre Street. And it illuminates an almost
forgotten chapter in American history, one that historians say has new relevance
in the current crackdown on illegal immigration.

''When we think about illegal immigration, we think about Mexican immigrants,
whereas in fact illegal immigration cuts across all immigrant groups,'' said
Erika Lee, the author of ''At America's Gate: Chinese Immigration During the
Exclusion Era, 1882-1943.'' The book traces how today's national apparatus of
immigration restriction was created and shaped by efforts to keep out Chinese
workers and to counter the tactics they developed to overcome the barriers.

The current parallels are striking, said Professor Lee, who teaches history at
the University of Minnesota. And though some descendants of paper sons do not
make the connection, many others have become immigrant rights advocates in law,
politics or museums like this one, which hopes to draw a national audience to
its new Chinatown space, designed by Maya Lin.

''In the Chinese-American community, it has only been very recently that these
types of histories have been made public,'' Professor Lee said. ''Even my own
grandparents who came in as paper sons were very, very reluctant to talk about
this.''

For Mr. Hom, who was a teenager when he arrived to work in his father's laundry
on Bleecker Street, the past is now a blur. ''It was so long ago that I hardly
remember,'' he said, as his wife, Yoke Won Hom, 82, straightened the lapels of
his suit for a photograph.

But when his memory was still sharp, his daughter Dorothy transcribed 48 pages
of his taped recollections, which became the basis of a four-minute first-person
narrative produced by the museum. It is one of 10 such autobiographical videos
that form the museum's core exhibit.

''To get into the U.S. under the laws back then, I had to pretend to be another
person,'' Mr. Hom wrote. His father had bought him immigration papers that
included 32 pages of information he was to memorize in preparation for hours of
interrogation at Ellis Island.

Such cheat sheets were part of an elaborate, self-perpetuating cycle of
enforcement and evasion, historians say. The authorities kept ratcheting up
their scrutiny and requirements for documents, feeding a lucrative network of
fraud and official corruption as immigrants tried to show they were either
merchants or native-born citizens, groups exempt from the exclusion laws.

Mr. Hom was allowed ashore as Hom Ngin Sing, a student and son of a native. In
reality, his father had made it to the United States only about six years
earlier, through a similar subterfuge, like an estimated 90 percent of Chinese
immigrants of the period.

Like many poor families from Taishan, a region that sent many emigrants to
California during the Gold Rush of 1849, the Homs had deep ties to the United
States. Mr. Hom's great-uncle, for example, died in the San Francisco earthquake
of 1906.

But unlike any other immigrant group, the Chinese were barred from naturalizing.
That bar was part of the Chinese Exclusion Act, which was passed in 1882 after
years of escalating anti-Chinese violence in the West spurred by recessions,
labor strife and a culture of white supremacy.

The law was expanded in 1892 with a measure that required all Chinese to
register with the government and subjected them to deportation unless they
proved legal residency, which required the testimony of at least one white
witness.

In a comment that reflected the tone in Congress, one senator asserted that the
government had the right ''to set apart for them, as we have for the Indians, a
territory or reservation, where they should not break out to contaminate our
people.''

Lawyers argued that the law was repugnant to ''the very soul of the
Constitution.'' But it was upheld in a sweeping Supreme Court decision of 1893,
Fong Yue Ting v. United States, which held that the government's power to deport
foreigners, whether here legally or not, was as ''absolute and unqualified'' as
the power to exclude them. That finding reverberates today, said Daniel
Kanstroom, a legal scholar and the author of ''Deportation Nation.''

Long after exclusion laws were repealed by Congress in 1943, after China became
a World War II ally, that vast power over noncitizens was deployed in raids
against immigrants of various ethnic groups whose politics were considered
suspect.

In the 1950s, Mr. Hom and his relatives, like many Chinese New Yorkers, suddenly
faced the exposure of their false papers in just such an operation. The
government was tipped off by an informer in Hong Kong as part of a cold war
effort to stop illegal immigration.

''We were very scared,'' said Mrs. Hom, who worked at the family's laundry,
first in the Bronx, then in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. ''Everybody was very worried on
account maybe they all be sent back to China.''

But in a government ''confession program,'' Mr. Hom and some of his relatives
admitted their illegal entry; because Mr. Hom had served in the military, he
received citizenship papers within months.

As someone who never made it to high school, he now beams over his children's
professional successes and his six multiethnic grandchildren. His son, Tom, is a
dentist in Manhattan; his daughter Mary is a physician in the Syracuse area, and
Dorothy, an interior designer, works with her husband, Michael Strauss, a
principal with Vanguard Construction, which recently completed DBGB Kitchen and
Bar, Daniel Boulud's latest restaurant.

At a time when debates about immigration often include the claim that ''my
relatives came the legal way,'' referring to a period when there were few
restrictions on any immigrants except the Chinese, the Hom family has a
different perspective.

''One's status being legal or illegal, it's two seconds apart at any point,''
Dorothy said. ''For some, the process is more difficult than others.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tun Funn Hom with his wife, Yoke Won Hom, and his daughter
Dorothy at the reopened Museum of Chinese in America. Below, Mr. Hom as a
younger man and during his military service, which eased his path to
citizenship. At bottom, Mr. Hom, his wife and his daughter Mary after he became
a citizen.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 2, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants May Become Legal Under Agency Plan

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 570 words


Although President Obama has put off an immigration overhaul until next year,
the federal agency in charge of approving visas is planning ahead for the
possibility of giving legal status to millions of illegal immigrants, the
agency's director said Thursday.

''We are under way to prepare for that,'' Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of
the agency, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said in an
interview. Mr. Obama has told immigration officials that a legalization program
would be part of legislation the White House would propose, said Mr. Mayorkas,
who became director in August. The agency's goal, he said, is to be ready to
expand rapidly to handle the gigantic increase in visa applications it would
face if the legislation, known as comprehensive immigration reform, passed
Congress.

The citizenship agency faces a difficult balancing act, preparing for a
potential workload bigger than any it has faced, based on legislation in early
stages of discussion that is fiercely opposed by many lawmakers in Congress.
Also, the agency must work to reduce backlogs and delays that have hampered its
performance.

There are no official estimates of the number of illegal immigrants who would
apply for legal documents. The Pew Hispanic Center and the Center for
Immigration Studies, two research groups in Washington, estimate that at least
10.8 million illegal immigrants live in this country. But a large number of
those would not be eligible for legal status for many reasons, including past
immigration violations.

Currently, the citizenship agency can handle applications from about six million
immigrants a year, Mr. Mayorkas said, including the time-consuming collection of
fingerprints and other biometric identity information. Under some plans for
legalization, the agency might receive that many applications in a few weeks.

An example of the planning, Mr. Mayorkas said, is an effort to improve the
agency's ability to receive applications via postal mail at secure reception
points known as lockboxes. The agency currently receives about 65 percent of
applications through lockboxes, which is more efficient than receiving them
through local offices. The agency is trying to move quickly to receive all
applications through lockboxes.

One idea calls for illegal immigrants to start the legalization process by
verifying their presence in the United States through a simple registration form
mailed to a lockbox, according to officials familiar with the planning.

As part of the planning, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Mr.
Mayorkas and other officials have held meetings around the country in recent
weeks to gather suggestions from the public for the overhaul.

The Obama administration's planning contrasts with that of the Bush
administration, which also supported a legalization program. Some opponents of
President Bush's proposal, which was defeated in Congress in 2007, cited the
immigration agencies' lack of preparation.

Some lawmakers who oppose the overhaul have questioned whether the planning was
a good use of limited resources. ''There is a risk to national security that
they will take their eyes off background checks of immigrants,'' said
Representative Steve King of Iowa, the senior Republican on the House
immigration subcommittee, ''while they are busy setting up for legislation that
has not been introduced in any way, shape or form.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 26, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans Focus on Guest Workers in Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Obama told a bipartisan group of lawmakers on Thursday that Congress
should begin debating a comprehensive immigration plan by year's end or early
next year, but Republicans said they would support a measure only if it included
an expansion of guest worker programs.

Leading the call for that provision was Senator John McCain of Arizona, who told
Mr. Obama he would have to take his ''political lumps'' and stand up to labor
unions that oppose the idea. The president praised Mr. McCain for paying ''a
significant political cost for doing the right thing.''

In the State Dining Room, Mr. Obama met with about 30 lawmakers for the first
substantial discussion on immigration since he took office. Mr. Obama named a
group to work with Congress that will be led by the homeland security secretary,
Janet Napolitano, a former governor of Arizona.

''I think the American people are ready for us to do this,'' Mr. Obama said,
''but it's going to require some heavy lifting. It's going to require a victory
of practicality, common sense and good policy making over short-term politics.''

The last time Congress considered sweeping immigration legislation, in 2007,
Democrats and some Republicans pushed a three-part agreement that would have
essentially provided legal status to the millions of people living here
illegally, strengthened enforcement of immigration laws and expanded guest
worker programs.

In April, the nation's two largest labor unions, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and its
rival, Change to Win, joined together to promote a comprehensive plan but said
they would oppose giving employers more power to bring in foreign workers. That
agreement led business groups, a stronghold of Republican support, to leave the
coalition.

Mr. McCain, speaking to reporters outside the White House on Thursday, said an
immigration overhaul had a fresh urgency because of the surge in violence along
the border with Mexico. But he said a guest worker program must be part of any
immigration bill.

''I would expect the president of the United States to put his influence on the
unions in order to change their position,'' Mr. McCain said. As he left the
White House, he said Mr. Obama needed to show leadership, saying, ''That's why
he was elected president.''

Mr. Obama made no commitments in the meeting, administration officials said, but
noted that all options were on the table, including a guest worker program. The
White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, had told reporters earlier Thursday
that there was not enough support for an immigration bill this year.

''If the votes were there,'' Mr. Emanuel said, ''you wouldn't need to have the
meeting.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at the White House on Thursday with Vice
President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator John McCain.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN
SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 2, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Focus Is on the Employers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Obama administration began investigations of hundreds of businesses on
Wednesday as part of its strategy to focus immigration enforcement on the
employers who hire illegal workers.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency told Congress in an e-mail
message that it had begun notifying businesses of plans to audit the  documents
known as I-9 forms, which employers fill out for every worker. The Department of
Homeland Security said 625 businesses had been told they would be audited,
compared with 503 for  last year.

Employers are required to  check the authenticity of documents provided by the
employee. The Homeland Security Department said it would not release the names
or locations of the businesses being audited.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo Widens an Investigation Into Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE and JENNY MANRIQUE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 936 words


Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo said Thursday that his office had issued more
than 50 subpoenas to individuals and businesses in New York City -- including
numerous immigrant-assistance organizations, a travel agency, an
English-language school and a church -- as part of a widening investigation into
immigration fraud.

Customers have complained that the businesses and their directors have
masqueraded as legitimate providers of immigrant services, many offering legal
aid they are not authorized or able to provide, officials in Mr. Cuomo's office
said. Some immigrants told investigators that they were falsely promised
permanent residency or American citizenship, even though the firms or
individuals were not qualified to secure such benefits.

''Immigrant communities across New York City continue to be put in jeopardy by
unscrupulous individuals and organizations offering them nothing more than empty
promises and false hopes,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement.

Immigration fraud, often orchestrated by immigrants, has proliferated across the
country, victimizing people desperate to gain legal residency or citizenship.
Law enforcement officials say such schemes are particularly difficult to uncover
and prosecute because many victims are in the country illegally and are hesitant
to seek help from the authorities for fear of deportation.

Under state and federal law, only lawyers or representatives accredited by the
Justice Department can represent people before the immigration authorities, Mr.
Cuomo's office said. Anyone providing immigration services must also comply with
strict rules governing contracts and advertising.

Mr. Cuomo's office said that it had not filed charges against the recipients of
the subpoenas, and that it was simply seeking business records and testimony to
determine whether the firms had committed fraud.

Ricardo Reis, director of the American Immigrant Federation, an immigrant
services organization in Times Square that was served subpoenas on Thursday,
said, ''I categorically deny that there have been fraudulent practices, and we
do welcome the opportunity to present our side of the story.''

Mr. Reis said he applauded Mr. Cuomo's investigation because of the severity and
scope of immigration fraud in the state. ''They're throwing a lot of stuff at a
lot of people,'' he said of the prosecutors, but added, ''A lot of it is
warranted, I'm sure.''

One target of the investigation, Iglesia Pentecostal Roca de Salvacion Eterna in
Corona, Queens, is already the subject of legal action. The office of the Queens
district attorney, Richard A. Brown, has filed charges against three people,
including the church's two pastors, accusing them of defrauding more than 100
immigrants of hundreds of thousands of dollars by falsely promising them visas
and green cards. Phone messages left on Thursday for lawyers for two defendants
went unanswered, and the lawyer for the third refused to comment.

The subpoenas came about two weeks after Mr. Cuomo's office filed a lawsuit
against a Dominican businesswoman in Queens, Miriam Mercedes Hernandez, accusing
her of running an immigration scheme that defrauded at least 38 people out of
about $250,000.

After the suit was publicized this month, officials in Mr. Cuomo's office said,
a public hot line that the office set up last fall to take complaints of
immigration fraud was flooded with calls, including some from people who said
they had been among Ms. Hernandez's clients. The officials said they made
Thursday's announcement to encourage more victims to come forward.

Court documents in the Hernandez case offer a glimpse of the kinds of tactics
businesses are accused of employing -- and of the lengths some immigrants will
go to in order to secure legal status.

Ms. Hernandez, who worked out of her apartment in Jackson Heights, Queens,
promised her clients permanent residence or citizenship in eight months and
charged up to $15,000 per person, prosecutors said. Although changes in
immigration status can often take several years, officials said, Ms. Hernandez
told clients she had the political connections to speed their requests.

After eight months, however, she had delivered none of the legal documentation
she promised, prosecutors said. When clients confronted her, she threatened to
tell the authorities that they were illegal immigrants, officials said. Her
lawyer would not comment on the case, and calls to Ms. Hernandez's home phone
went unanswered.

One client, a 29-year-old taxi driver from Ecuador, said in an interview that he
met Ms. Hernandez when she was a passenger in his cab. ''She asked me if I have
a driver's license and immediately began to promise helping me with all kinds of
documents,'' said the man, who insisted on anonymity because he feared
retribution from Ms. Hernandez. ''I gave her all the money I earned in nine
months of work.''

After he paid an initial fee of $5,000, the man said, Ms. Hernandez told him he
needed to bring other people into the arrangement because she could process the
applications only in groups of 10. He said he invited relatives and friends, who
provided her copies of their tax returns, passports, credit card and bank
statements, birth certificates and even family photographs.

To help build their trust, Ms. Hernandez told each client she had scheduled them
an appointment with immigration authorities, but the appointments turned out to
be false, according to officials and court documents.

Mr. Cuomo's office has sued Ms. Hernandez, seeking to bar her from continuing
her business and to win restitution for her clients.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 2, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detained Asylum-Seekers Find It Harder to Win Release

BYLINE: By JENNY MANRIQUE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 966 words


As a human rights advocate in West Africa, Jean-Pierre was jailed four times,
repeatedly tortured and forced to pay a $15,000 ransom to his captors in
exchange for his freedom. He faked his own death and even staged a funeral to
escape his native Guinea, and in 2007 sought asylum in the United States.

But instead of refuge, he found a new form of captivity: He was handcuffed at
Kennedy International Airport and locked up for five months in an immigration
jail in Elizabeth, N.J.

''I had a genuine reason for coming here and ask for protection, but I was
detained,'' said Jean-Pierre, 29, who insisted that his last name be withheld to
preserve his privacy in his current work on AIDS prevention. ''They handcuffed
me like a criminal and gave me a uniform. That was devastating and stressful. It
was like reliving my jail in Guinea.''

For more than a decade, arriving asylum-seekers have faced the possibility that
they will be detained while immigration authorities oppose their admission,
under stricter laws passed in 1996. But a new study by the international
advocacy group Human Rights First, shows that it has become harder for them to
win release while their cases are considered.

Since 2003, when the Department of Homeland Security took over immigration
enforcement, the number of beds in prisonlike detention centers has risen by at
least 62 percent, the study found. At the same time, the percentage of asylum
seekers released on bond or parole dropped by 42 percent for those the
authorities found to have a ''credible fear'' of persecution. In 2007, more than
3,000 asylum seekers were detained soon after arrival in the United States.

In jail, they often face inadequate medical and mental health care, and a lack
of legal representation that can keep them locked up for years, according to the
researchers, who visited detention centers in New York, New Jersey and other
states.

On Tuesday, the group planned a briefing in New York for Congressional staff
members and others, calling for remedies that include improved conditions and
alternatives to detention.

''The U.S. detention system needs to be reviewed from top to bottom,'' said
Eleanor Acer, the director of the group's refugee protection program.

In response, Dora Schriro, recently appointed as the immigration agency's
special adviser, wrote the group a letter saying she had already begun a
thorough review of detention policies and practices. The report, she wrote,
''identifies areas for improvement we can address immediately.''

Jean-Pierre said that during his months in the Elizabeth Detention Center, which
is run for the federal government by the Corrections Corporation of America, he
thought of suicide whenever he heard that another detainee had been deported. He
had nightmares in which a soldier tried to kill him.

''In jail, doctors just gave me sleep medication, but I did not want to sleep,
to have more nightmares,'' he recalled.

But Jean-Pierre was one of the lucky ones.   He was released in April 2008 and
was granted asylum three weeks later. Now he is active in a Christian
congregation in Manhattan and is trying to bring his wife over from Africa.

Other asylum seekers have grown sicker. This report and others have traced the
damage that detention can work on the physical and mental health of refugees,
many of whom have endured torture and trauma in their native countries.

A 2003 study of 70 detained asylum seekers by Physicians for Human Rights and
the Bellevue/N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture found that 86 percent
suffered significant depression, and half suffered from post-traumatic stress
disorder.  Dr. Allen Keller, the program's director, said people in detention
could easily be retraumatized. ''The longer the detention the higher the
psychological distress.''

The report cited the case of a Brazilian woman who had come to the United States
to escape domestic violence, but could not cope with the stress of eight months
in jail. She withdrew her application and returned to her home country, even
though she faced grave danger there.

''At one hearing, when she heard that the case was to be continued again --
meaning she would be detained longer -- she had a panic attack,'' her pro-bono
lawyer, Kelleen Corrigan, recalled. ''An external psychological evaluation
stated that she needed ongoing therapeutic treatment, but despite my repeated
requests to ICE, the client was never seen by a mental-health specialist while
detained.''

Immigration and Customs Enforcement would not answer questions about mental
health services in detention. It said it could discuss specific cases if the
individuals agreed to disclose their medical records, but the asylum seekers'
lawyers advised against that.

Though detention in America holds few of the horrors many asylum seekers
experienced in their home countries, it has its own torments; detainees can be
placed in solitary confinement, and are often prevented from communicating with
relatives by lack of access to phones or by the high costs of jail phone
service.

''I left behind a pregnant wife, and I did not know about her for months,''
explained Kelsang, 23, a Tibetan who spent almost a year in the Elizabeth
Detention Center before he was granted asylum in May 2008. He said he had seen
his 2-year-old son only in photos.

''I barely slept, no more than two hours, and I was always nervous and afraid
for my family back in Tibet,'' said Kelsang, who asked that his last name not be
published because he feared the family would be harmed.

A Buddhist who supported the Dalai Lama, Kelsang said that during 13 months in
Chinese custody he had been ''tortured and beaten with an electric prod and a
club.'' The New Jersey jail, he said, was not as bad. ''At least I could
practice my religion.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Pierre, a human rights advocate, fled his native Guinea and
was held for five months at a New Jersey immigration detention center. ''That
was devastating and stressful,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill Proposes Immigration Rights for Gay Couples

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1107 words


Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Democrat from Vermont who is the powerful chairman
of the Judiciary Committee, is adding another controversial ingredient to the
volatile mix of an immigration debate that President Obama has said he hopes to
spur in Congress before the end of the year.

Mr. Leahy has offered a bill that would allow American citizens and legal
immigrants to seek residency in the United States for their same-sex partners,
just as spouses now petition for foreign-born husbands and wives.

The senator has said the bill should be part of any broad immigration
legislation that Congress considers. To highlight his initiative, known as the
Uniting American Families Act, Mr. Leahy is holding a hearing on Wednesday to
discuss it in the full Judiciary Committee, bypassing the usual subcommittee
hearings.

Also this week, immigrant advocacy groups and labor organizations are opening a
nationwide campaign to hold President Obama to his recent pledge to initiate a
Congressional debate on immigration legislation later this year.

Small-scale rallies took place on Monday in Los Angeles and some 40 other
locations, and immigration groups are converging on Washington on Wednesday for
three days of strategy meetings.

The Obama administration, juggling an array of huge and pressing issues on the
economy and health care reform, has encouraged the mobilization of immigration
advocates, especially Latino groups, while avoiding any legislative battles for
now on the prickly topic of immigration. President Obama has invited a
bipartisan group of lawmakers to the White House next Monday to ''launch a
policy conversation'' about immigration, an administration official said.

The president wants to ''identify areas of agreement, and areas where we still
have work to do,'' said the official, who would only speak on background because
the final plans for the meeting were not settled.

The most contentious part of the immigration legislation that the administration
supports, which is known as comprehensive immigration reform, is a program to
give legal status to more than 11 million illegal immigrants living in the
country. But current proposals also include a variety of measures intended, like
Senator Leahy's, to expand or streamline the legal immigration system.

Mr. Leahy's proposal for same-sex immigration benefits was not included in the
immigration legislation that the Bush administration brought forward in 2007,
which failed after a firestorm of opposition, mainly from Republican voters.

Groups backing the overhaul this year have cobbled together a wide-ranging but
fragile coalition that includes Latino and black groups, Roman Catholic and
evangelical Christian churches, farm workers and commercial farmers, and some
employer groups. In contrast to 2007, organized labor is united this time around
in supporting the overhaul.

The political fault lines opened by Senator Leahy's same-sex bill quickly became
apparent this week. In a letter sent Tuesday, Bishop John C. Wester of Salt Lake
City, the chairman of the Catholic bishops' Committee on Migration, wrote that
the Uniting American Families Act would ''erode the institution of marriage and
family,'' by taking a position ''that is contrary to the very nature of marriage
which pre-dates the Church and the State.''

Bishop Wester addressed his letter to Representative Michael M. Honda, a
California Democrat who has said he will introduce an immigration bill
containing similar same-sex provisions in the House this week.

J. Kevin Appleby, the immigration policy director for the bishops' conference,
said, ''The last thing the national immigration debate needs is another
politically divisive issue added to the mix.''

But Senator Leahy said the bill would eliminate discrimination in immigration
law against gay and lesbian couples.

Under family unification provisions in immigration law, American citizens and
legal residents can petition for residency for their spouses. There is no
numerical limit on permanent residence visas, known as green cards, for spouses
of American citizens, and this is one of the main channels for legal immigration
to the United States. Same-sex couples, though, cannot petition for partners,
and many face the prospect of an immigrant partner's deportation.

Senator Leahy's bill would add the term ''permanent partner'' to sections of
current immigration law that refer to married couples, and would provide a legal
definition of those terms.

''I just think it's a matter of fairness,'' he said Tuesday in an interview,
noting that a number of American allies, including Canada, France and Germany,
recognize same-sex couples in immigration law.

The Judiciary Committee is to hear testimony on Wednesday from Shirley Tan, 43,
the mother of twin 12-year-old boys who are United States citizens because they
were born here. Ms. Tan has raised them with her partner of 20 years, Jay
Mercado, who like Ms. Tan is from the Philippines. Although Ms. Mercado became a
naturalized American citizen in 1998, she has not been able to gain legal
immigration status for Ms. Tan.

Ms. Tan said she came to this country fleeing a cousin who was released from
prison in the Philippines after he served 10 years for the murders of her mother
and her sister. Ms. Tan said she had been severely injured in the 1979 attack by
the cousin.

She applied for political asylum in the United States, she said, but did not
receive notice when it was denied years later. She remained here with a
provisional legal status until last Jan. 28, when federal immigration agents
carrying a deportation order came to the home she shares with Ms. Mercado, 48,
in Pacifica, Calif.

Since her arrest, Ms. Tan has been able to remain legally in the country because
of a private bill introduced on her behalf by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat
of California.

Ms. Tan said she feared returning to live in the Philippines, in part because of
concern that she and Ms. Mercado would face anti-gay discrimination there.

''People are cruel,'' she said. ''I don't know if I can expose my boys to
narrow-minded people.''

Opponents of the Leahy bill argue that it would foster immigration fraud because
it would be difficult for immigration officers to determine whether same-sex
couples had an established relationship.

Supporters said the bill would assist about 36,000 same-sex couples nationwide.
Rachel B. Tiven, the executive director of Immigration Equality, a group that
advocates for gay rights legislation, said the bill had improved chances this
year because of recent same-sex marriage victories in Iowa, Maine and Vermont.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shirley Tan, with her 12-year-old twin sons, Jashley, left, and
Joriene Mercado. Ms. Tan, a Filipino, has been unable to gain legal residence,
while her partner, who is also a woman, has.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cleared of Terrorism Charges, but Then a Target for Deportation

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Lynn Waddell contributed reporting from Tampa, Fla.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

DATELINE: MOORE HAVEN, Fla.


Youssef Samir Megahed toyed with a piece of lint on the other side of the
bulletproof glass and described his case as simply ''weird.''

In April, a federal jury acquitted him on charges of transporting explosives
during a road trip with a friend who had packed model rocket propellants in the
trunk. But three days later, in  a Wal-Mart parking lot in Tampa, Mr. Megahed
was arrested again in connection with the case, this time by immigration
authorities.

The new charge is that he ''is engaged in or is likely to engage in'' terrorist
activities, a violation of his legal residency in the United States.

''They just label you a terrorist and that's it,'' said Mr. Megahed, 23, who
moved to Florida from Egypt with his family 11 years ago and is being held here
at an immigration detention center.

Mr. Megahed is at least the third Florida defendant in three years to be brought
up on immigration charges after prosecutors failed to win terrorism convictions
in federal court. If convicted of the new charges and deported, he would join
thousands of other Muslim and Arab men sent home since Sept. 11, 2001, as part
of an extensive law enforcement strategy that relies on the immigration courts
to remove potential threats.

Some national security experts say the country is safer without such men, and
immigration officials declare the deportations both legal and fair. But with
President Obama scheduled to speak in Cairo on Thursday about repairing
relations with the Muslim world, Mr. Megahed is being presented by critics of
the immigration strategy here and abroad as a test case of the president's
pledge to break with some of the Bush administration's most unpopular policies.

Egyptian news outlets and blogs have taken up Mr. Megahed's cause. Several
federal jurors who acquitted him have also made the rare move of publicizing
their outrage at their verdict's being second-guessed, while Arab-American
groups, civil rights organizations and churches have lobbied the Obama
administration for his release.

''We are sending the wrong message to American Muslims and the Muslim world,''
said Ramzy Kilic, executive director of the Tampa chapter of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations, an advocacy group for Muslims. ''If Obama really
wants to make a new way forward with mutual respect, he has to start here at
home.''

Immigration courts have not been central to the prosecution of cases involving
terrorism. But in such cases, they share prosecutorial advantages similar to
those found in the controversial military tribunals for suspects accused of
being foreign fighters.

In immigration courts, for example, hearings can be closed to the public, the
burden of proof is lower than in federal court, and a wider scope of evidence,
including hearsay, can be used. Michael Wishnie, a law professor at Yale
University, said using immigration courts in these cases  amounted to
''second-class justice'' because ''the defendant's rights are reduced.''

In Mr. Megahed's case, officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement have
emphasized that his deportation hearing is a civil, not a criminal, proceeding,
possibly with new evidence, and does not amount to ''double jeopardy'' -- the
prohibition on trying defendants more than once for the same crime.

''This is nothing new,'' said Bill West, chief of national security for
immigration enforcement until he retired in 2003. ''The concept goes back to Al
Capone -- get the bad guys any way you can, on any violation you can.''

Still, the main question in the immigration case is essentially the same as it
was in the federal trial: Is Mr. Megahed a danger to society, or, as his lawyer
argues, is he only ''guilty of having stupid friends''?

Mr. Megahed's legal problems began two years ago on a road trip with Ahmed
Mohamed, who, like Mr. Megahed, was Egyptian, Muslim and an engineering student
at the University of South Florida. Mr. Megahed said he had known Mr. Mohamed
for only a few months before traveling with him in the summer of 2007.

''It was for fun,'' Mr. Megahed said in an interview here. ''To see the
Southeast of the United States.''

They took turns driving north until they reached Goose Creek, S.C., where the
police pulled them over for going 60 miles an hour in a 45-m.p.h. zone. One of
two deputies involved said he had become suspicious when the men quickly put
away a laptop; a recording of the traffic stop captured the officer saying, ''I
think they're part of the Taliban.''

The officers searched the trunk and found ''several pipe bombs;'' more
specifically, four pieces of PVC tubing, about 2 to 2.5 inches long and
three-quarters of an inch in diameter, which contained sugar, potassium nitrate
and cat litter.

Mr. Mohamed told the police they were homemade fireworks -- similar recipes can
be found online. The authorities charged them with possession of an explosive
device, carrying a prison term of up to 15 years. A judge set bail at $500,000
for Mr. Mohamed and $300,000 for Mr. Megahed.

''That is when the bad dreams began,'' Mr. Megahed's father, Samir, an engineer,
said in an interview with his wife, Ahlem, at their upscale two-story town house
in Tampa. Declaring ''I love America,'' he said he had brought his family to the
state because the University of South Florida had accepted his two sons.

He described Youssef, the younger, as an outgoing joker who had lost a front
tooth rough-housing as a boy.

Mr. Megahed, in a visitation booth at the detention center, described himself as
clueless. He said he had not known the plastic tubes were in the trunk (his
fingerprints were not found on them) and had never even heard the term ''pipe
bomb'' until the police said it.

He also said he had not known they were seven miles from a naval base when they
were pulled over, or that Mr. Mohamed's laptop had a video on it showing a
rocket attack somewhere in the Middle East.

''I thought it was going to be O.K.,'' Mr. Megahed said. ''I hadn't done
anything wrong.''

After their arrest, federal investigators found a YouTube video that Mr. Mohamed
had made showing how to turn a toy into a detonator. In December, Mr. Mohamed
pleaded guilty in a separate case to providing material support to terrorists
and was sentenced to 15 years in prison; as part of the plea agreement, the
charges from the traffic stop were dropped.

Mr. Megahed was not involved with the video. His trial began three months later
and lasted three weeks. Gary Meringer, the jury foreman, said jurors were
initially suspicious about the circumstantial evidence in the case -- the
fireworks in the trunk; the video on the laptop; a gas can in the car; that they
had tried to buy a gun, while their bags lacked toothpaste or bathing suits.

An initial survey of jurors, Mr. Meringer said, produced six guilty votes, four
undecided, and two not guilty. But as the jury examined each detail
individually, he said, holes emerged. For example, the prosecutor's expert could
not get a simulated version of the alleged explosives to give off much more than
heat and smoke.

It was also unclear whether Mr. Megahed had watched the video on the laptop, or
if he had viewed a handful of Web sites -- on AK-47s among other things -- that
were found in the browsing history on a family computer at the Megaheds' home.

By the third day of deliberations, the jury had arrived at unanimous verdicts of
not guilty of transporting explosive materials and of possessing a destructive
device.

Mr. Megahed's sister cried in the courtroom. He celebrated at the beach. Then
immigration authorities arrested Mr. Megahed after a shopping trip with his
father. Mr. Meringer, 57, the foreman, who is a corporate lawyer, was shocked
when he heard of the immigration charge. ''It literally took the air right out
of my chest,'' he said. ''I felt the government had completely wasted the time
of the legal system, the judge, the jury, the bailiffs, all of those people.''

He contacted the other jurors, and three joined him in signing a statement
opposing Mr. Megahed's detention. ''We want a fair shake,'' Mr. Meringer said.
''A fair shake for Youssef would be that he could finish college, become a
citizen and go on his merry way.''

Mr. Megahed's hearing is scheduled for Aug. 17. By then, he will have spent
nearly a year behind bars, including nine months before his trial.

His lawyer, Charles Kuck, said immigration officials had suggested they would
rely in part on evidence from the family computer, which Mr. Megahed's brother,
Yahia, said had been used by numerous friends and relatives.

In the criminal trial, the judge excluded eight video clips on the computer that
show rocket attacks in an unidentified Middle Eastern location; a ninth clip
shows an improvised explosive device that hits an American tank.

While Mr. Megahed waits,  his parents visit him every five days, as often as is
allowed. His father said he worried that his son had become depressed. ''Every
time he tells me to bring clothes for him in case they let him out,'' he said.

But in the interview, Mr. Megahed seemed determined to appear stoic. He said he
had turned to an Arabic proverb for solace: ''The longer you live, the more you
will see.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Youssef Megahed, 23, found not guilty of explosives charges in
April, was arrested by immigration authorities three days later. (pg.A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bush Rule Bolstering Deportations Is Withdrawn

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 622 words


Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. on Wednesday  reversed a Bush administration
ruling  that had weakened the ability of immigrants facing deportation to argue
that their lawyers did a bad job.

The original order, issued just days before the inauguration of President Obama,
held that immigrants did not have a constitutional right to effective lawyers in
their deportation hearings. That 11th-hour decision abruptly closed off one of
the most common avenues for appealing deportation decisions.

Because immigration cases are classified as civil litigation, people facing
deportation do not have the same right to be represented by a lawyer that
criminal defendants have. But before the Bush administration, a long line of
legal opinions allowed immigrants whose lawyers had performed poorly to ask that
their cases be opened on constitutional grounds. In 2003, the Board of
Immigration Appeals, a part of the executive branch that reviews the rulings of
immigration courts, reaffirmed that right.

The Bush administration, however, successfully argued in several federal appeals
court cases that there was no constitutional right to have a case reopened
because of ineffective legal representation.

The Bush administration order, issued by Michael B. Mukasey, then the attorney
general, concerned three deportation cases known collectively as Matter of
Compean, after the name of one of the people facing removal, Enrique Salas
Compean.

In Wednesday's three-page order withdrawing the former attorney general's
decision, Mr. Holder suggested that the original order did not follow proper
government procedure. The process followed by the Bush administration, he wrote,
did not thoroughly consider all the issues involved, particularly for a decision
that changed a long-standing process that had been reaffirmed by the appeals
board.

Wednesday's order called for a thorough review of the law in such cases, and for
a period of public comment that could lead to a new rule.

''The integrity of immigration proceedings depends in part on the ability to
assert claims of ineffective assistance of counsel,'' Mr. Holder said in a
statement accompanying the order, ''and the Department of Justice's rule making
in this area will be fair, it will be transparent, and it will be guided by our
commitment to the rule of law.''

Immigration courts and judges are part of the Justice Department, and the
decisions of those judges can be appealed, under some circumstances, to the
federal courts. Mr. Holder's order instructs immigration judges and the Board of
Immigration Appeals to apply the legal standards that were in effect before Mr.
Mukasey's order until a final rule is devised.

But Mr. Holder said Justice Department lawyers could continue to argue in
deportation cases at the federal appeals court level that there is no
constitutional right to effective lawyers for immigrants. Lee Gelernt, a lawyer
for the American Civil Liberties Union, applauded the overall decision as a good
beginning to restoring the legal rights of immigrants, though he criticized Mr.
Holder for applying it only to immigration judges and not Justice Department
lawyers.

That aspect, Mr. Gelernt said, threatens to continue ''a troubling legacy of the
Bush administration.''

But Jon Feere, a legal policy analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies,
said that restoring the ineffective counsel rule would ''give aliens one too
many bites at the apple'' and could be used by immigration lawyers as a delaying
tool.

''If this is going to result in people remaining in the country for years and
years on end,'' Mr. Feere said, ''we really have to question whether or not our
immigration system is meeting the public interest of finality.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 5, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hope and Worry on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 450 words


This week, in Washington and cities across the nation, immigrant advocates,
clergy members and labor and business leaders have been meeting to press their
case for comprehensive immigration reform. Hopes have been raised before and
repeatedly dashed. But this year there is a chance -- if the White House
provides real leadership and Congressional leaders show the courage and sense
they have previously lacked.

President Obama has pledged his support for reform that includes a path to
citizenship for the undocumented. At the same time, his administration has not
done nearly enough to moderate enforcement policies that unfairly target
citizens and legal residents -- often because they are Hispanic -- while feeding
the fear and hopelessness of illegal immigrants as they await the opportunity to
get right with the law.

The Department of Homeland Security has been pressing ahead with the old Bush
administration playbook of tightening the screws on the 12 million undocumented,
particularly by lengthening the long arm of local law enforcement. Make no
mistake: Stronger and more effective immigration enforcement should be a pillar
of any reform plan. But stricter enforcement must be coupled with a path to
legalization. And poorly designed enforcement without stringent checks on errors
and abuse is a remedy worse than the disease.

The homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, is sticking with the 287(g)
program, which deputizes local police departments to enforce immigration law,
despite all-too-frequent errors and abuses. Despite community outrage over
racial profiling and indiscriminate ''crime sweeps'' in Maricopa County, Ariz.,
by the notorious sheriff, Joe Arpaio, he remains a member in good standing of
Ms. Napolitano's enforcement team.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement is expanding its Secure Communities program,
which automatically checks the immigration status of everyone booked in jail.
That sounds benign, but advocates have raised legitimate concerns over its lack
of oversight and internal controls. Any blanket checks of arrestees, both
innocent and guilty, could easily provide cover to police departments that use
neighborhood sweeps and mass arrests as a pretext to ''cleanse'' communities of
unwanted immigrants -- not just violent criminals, but harmless housekeepers,
day laborers and gardeners.

There could be no quicker way than this to erode the hard-won advances in
community policing, through which law enforcement agencies rely on the trust and
cooperation of the people they protect.

There is a grim contradiction at work here, with the Obama administration
simultaneously, and self-destructively, twisting the dials of hope and fear.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Finds Immigration Courtrooms Backlogged

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 550 words


Nearly three years after the Justice Department found that the nation's
immigration courts were seriously overburdened and recommended hiring 40 new
judges, only a few hirings have taken place and the case backlog is at its
highest point in a decade, according to a study released Wednesday.

The report, by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a nonpartisan
group that analyzes data about federal government performance, found that the
shortage of judges had contributed to a 19 percent increase in the backlog of
cases since 2006 and a 23 percent increase in the time it takes to resolve them.

As of April 12, Justice Department officials said, there were 234 active
immigration judges, an increase of 4 judges since August 2006. At that time a
review by the attorney general, Alberto R. Gonzales, determined that immigration
courts were struggling with their case burden and recommended that 40 judges be
brought on board.

''It's a system at its breaking point,'' said Dana L. Marks, an immigration
judge in San Francisco who is president of the National Association of
Immigration Judges. ''How can a system function properly when it is starved from
the critical basic resources it needs?''

The number of cases soared after the Bush administration hired thousands of new
immigration agents and stepped up raids in factories and communities. Last year
the immigration courts received 351,477 cases, also a record in the last decade.

''Promises were made and promises weren't kept, and there is real hurt,'' said
David Burnham, a co-director of the clearinghouse, also known as TRAC.

Many thousands of immigrants have been affected by the delays because the
authorities have started to hold many more of them in detention while the
immigrants challenge deportation orders or seek political asylum through the
courts.

Each judge in the immigration courts is sharing a law clerk, on average, with
three other judges, the report found. In federal district courts, by contrast,
each judge normally is assigned more than one clerk. In one week last year that
the clearinghouse examined, an immigration judge typically handled 69 hearings.
Yet according to the report, 186,342 cases were pending in the immigration
courts at the end of the 2008 fiscal year, the highest number in a decade.

The courts that decide immigration matters have generally had lower visibility
than the federal courts because they are not part of the judiciary. Instead,
they are run by an agency, the Executive Office for Immigration Review, which is
part of the Justice Department. Judges are appointed by the attorney general.

A spokesman for the Justice Department, Charles Miller, said the increased time
to resolve cases did not mean that the courts were overwhelmed or inefficient.
''For example, the case may involve significant legal or unusual issues,'' Mr.
Miller said.

But he said the department was hiring 19 new immigration judges and had
requested 28 more judges and 28 clerks for 2010.

Unlike criminal defendants, immigrants in court do not have a right to be
represented by a lawyer. In many cases, the judge is expected to explain basic
rights and procedures. But according to the TRAC report, 78 percent of the
immigrants that came before the courts since 2006  required a translator.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 19, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration: It's Time

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 513 words


President Obama keeps saying he is serious about fixing immigration. You can
expect him to say it again at the National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast in
Washington on Friday morning. He will likely say it again next week, if his
twice-postponed meeting with Congressional leaders to discuss immigration reform
finally takes place.

This profusion of promises has not led to any results. Inaction and the passing
of time have only increased the frustration of those who have been counting on
Mr. Obama to deliver something on immigration reform -- a plan, a timetable, the
outlines of a bill.

Mr. Obama needs to break the stalemate on immigration. And he needs to do it
soon.

He owes it to the Hispanic voters whose overwhelming support helped push him
into the White House, and to the undocumented immigrants whose lives have been
made miserable under a cruel, ill-conceived enforcement crusade that was
concocted in the last administration and survives into this one.

The president can't do it alone. Democrats in Congress, especially in the House,
need to stop being bullied by anti-immigrant bullies. They need to be joined by
moderate Republicans, most importantly by  Senator John McCain, who must once
again defy his party's zealots to support sensible immigration reform.

Of the many messes President George W. Bush left behind, the failure to fix
immigration is one of the few he ever expressed any regret about. There is a lot
to regret.

There was wide agreement -- in the country and in Washington -- on the elements
of sensible, comprehensive reform: tighter border and workplace enforcement; a
path to assimilation instead of deportation for 12 million illegal immigrants;
and an improved future flow of workers and families. It all fell apart in the
heat of right-wing politics.

Now it's Mr. Obama's turn to lead the country to a different result. No one is
expecting a huge bill to pass in a matter of weeks or even months. But there are
things he can do right now that will underscore his seriousness.

It boils down to a simple question: If you accept legalization for the
undocumented as desirable and inevitable, then why continue to put them through
hell?

As they wait for a legalization bill, they are suffering under unjust laws,
corrupt policing and a detention and deportation system that routinely
suppresses their rights. American citizens who are Hispanic, and are all too
frequently victims of racially-driven sweeps, are also suffering. Mr. Obama and
his Homeland Security secretary, Janet Napolitano, must do much more to curb
those excesses.

Republicans must also do their part. Will they knuckle under once again to the
anti-amnesty posses, the Minutemen and nativist dead-enders? Or will they help
revive and pass a realistic and desperately needed reform -- teaming up with an
engaged president and a re-energized John McCain?

The American people have been far out front of the politicians on this issue,
overwhelmingly supporting comprehensive reform. Washington can still catch up.
There's still time. And the country is waiting.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Opposed to Amnesty

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 388 words


To the Editor:

In your editorial ''Immigration: It's Time'' (June 19), you tar the people who
oppose so-called comprehensive immigration reform as ''anti-amnesty posses'' and
''nativist dead-enders.''

I'm sure you can take any policy and find nogoodniks who support it, but the
merits or lack thereof are what should be important to your readers.

Here's some of the thinking that motivates me to oppose amnesty. In 1971, John
P. Holdren, now President Obama's head of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy and in 1975 a professor of mine at Berkeley, and Paul R. Ehrlich of
Stanford University introduced an equation showing that human impact on the
environment equals population times consumption per capita times technology.

According to the Pew Research Center, the population of the United States, the
country with the largest per capita consumption, will grow from the current 306
million to 438 million in 2050, and 82 percent of that growth will be due to
mass immigration. The environmental implications of that population growth are
staggering. Debate that.

David C. Holzman Lexington, Mass., June 19, 2009

To the Editor:

I respectfully disagree with your editorial suggesting that President Obama
should pursue immigration reform because most Americans agree that illegal
immigrants should be given a ''path to citizenship.''

I am an Obama supporter and am satisfied with the job he is doing since being
inaugurated. But I disagree adamantly with granting legal status to those who
have come to our country illegally.

Your editorial totally ignores the unfairness the American taxpayer has endured
for decades by subsidizing people who should not be in our country. Illegal
immigrants drive down wages, burden local health systems and cause other
ill-desired impacts to our economy and country.

The quickest way for Mr. Obama to lose my support, and that of millions of
others, is to grant legal status to illegal immigrants. Democrats should be
cautious about assuming that all those opposed to amnesty are staunch
conservatives.

Millions of members of minority groups like me, as well as other moderates,
strongly oppose granting amnesty to illegal immigrants while favoring
deportation. We absolutely do not accept amnesty as ''desirable'' or
''inevitable.''

Mark Wilson Omaha, Neb., June 19, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Set for First, Tentative Step Today on Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Jeff Zeleny contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1041 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Obama is expected to meet with Congressional leaders of both parties
on Thursday to begin laying the political groundwork for sweeping immigration
legislation, even though its passage this year is considered very unlikely.

With lawmakers already immersed in health care, financial regulation and energy
policy, and with the Senate set to hold hearings soon on Judge Sonia Sotomayor's
nomination to the Supreme Court, administration officials and many in Congress
say it is improbable that they will be able to add anything as challenging as an
immigration overhaul.

And the clock is not the only obstacle. While there is a consensus that the
immigration system is broken, Republicans and Democrats, politically burned over
the issue in the recent past, remain divided even within their own parties over
how to fix it.

The unemployment rate is expected to stay high, making Democrats who are
wavering on immigration reform leery of supporting it. And while polls show that
Hispanic voters care deeply about changing the system -- many of them are
related to or at least know someone who is living in this country illegally --
even they see it as a lower priority than the economy and health care.

Then there is the question of whether it is Congress or the White House that
will take the lead.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a longtime proponent of
expanded guest worker programs and legal status for the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants currently in the country, has been succeeded as chairman of
the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration by Senator Charles E. Schumer,
Democrat of New York. In that role, Mr. Schumer would take the point in pushing
for passage of a new bill.

But Republicans have refused to put their political capital at risk without some
assurances that Mr. Obama will spend some of his own. Senator John Cornyn of
Texas, the senior Republican on Mr. Schumer's subcommittee, said: ''So far what
we have seen from the White House, frankly, is a lot of photo-ops and not a lot
of rolling up your sleeves and doing the hard work. And this is an issue that is
going to take a lot of hard work.''

Aides to Mr. Obama say he does not intend to get out in front of any proposal
until there is a strong bipartisan commitment to pass it. That stance has the
potential to paralyze the process, since lawmakers are looking to him to use his
bully pulpit, and high approval ratings, to help them fend off any political
backlash among their constituents.

''His position is very clear: he thinks we need comprehensive immigration
reform,'' David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, said in an
interview. ''But that's not something that's going to happen simply on his
volition.''

''Obviously work needs to be done,'' Mr. Axelrod added, ''and not just from our
end, but from the proponents in Congress, to bring it to the point where it can
get passed.''

How to move Congress to that point is likely to be the focus of Thursday's
meeting at the White House, lawmakers and presidential aides say.

In recent days, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, has
said he believes there are enough votes to pass a comprehensive bill this year.
And in a speech here Wednesday before the Migration Policy Institute, Mr.
Schumer agreed, though he said the key to assuaging opponents was to show that
any new immigration legislation would not only legalize the status of illegal
immigrants already in the country but also include tough measures to prevent new
waves from entering.

Public sentiment about the proposed immigration overhaul that failed in the
Senate two years ago was that it ''was too soft on illegal immigrants,'' Mr.
Schumer said, adding, ''Unless we can convince Americans we're going to be
really tough, then this is not going to work.''

If the outlook is unclear in the Senate, it is even more so in the House, where
at least 40 Democrats represent conservative districts. Among them is
Representative Heath Shuler of North Carolina, who says he supports enforcing
current immigration laws at the border and in the workplace before considering
comprehensive immigration reform.

''Congress is spending hundreds of billions of dollars to create new jobs, which
should go to legal U.S. workers,'' Mr. Shuler said. ''Americans have demanded
that Congress do something about illegal immigration, and enforcing existing
laws is a good first step.''

White House officials do not rule out the possibility of an immigration overhaul
before midterm Congressional campaigns are in full swing next year. Some
officials, however, say passage will more likely come in 2011, when Mr. Obama
hopes to tap his broad support among Hispanic voters as he begins his run for
re-election.

On the other hand, Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the only Hispanic among Senate
Democrats, says it ought to be this year. ''I think it is one of those issues
that if you don't pass this year, it slips several years away,'' Mr. Menendez
said.

In the five months since Mr. Obama took office, he has used his administrative
authority to reverse several Bush administration policies widely criticized as
doing little to stem illegal immigration while wreaking havoc on immigrant
families already here.

At the Migration Policy Institute meeting Wednesday, John T. Morton, assistant
secretary of homeland security, talked about some of those changes, including
new guidelines that make employers, rather than workers, the target of workplace
raids, as well as expanded humanitarian-release rules to keep parents detained
on immigration charges from being separated from small children.

Immigration advocates say that administrative changes are not enough and that
Hispanics, a crucial voting bloc, are holding Mr. Obama to his commitment to
winning a comprehensive overhaul.

Representative Jason Altmire, a Democrat whose district includes the
economically hard-hit Pittsburgh suburbs, says his constituents are holding him
to a different commitment.

''By definition,'' Mr. Altmire said, ''illegal immigrants are people who broke
the law to get here. So any effort to reward them with legal status and work
permits would not be supported by the people who elected me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at the Esperanza National Hispanic Prayer
Breakfast and Conference on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 27, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Way Forward on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 619 words


President Obama and Congress members met privately at the White House on
Thursday for their first major discussion of immigration reform. Immigration is
just one unsolved national crisis among many, and it was hard not to suspect
that the parties might use the meeting -- which had already been twice postponed
-- to dampen expectations for a bill this year.

The meeting was more encouraging than that. It led to a persuasive show of unity
among Republicans and Democrats. Both sides made the case for getting a
comprehensive reform bill written and passed this year, or early next. Mr. Obama
announced that the homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, would lead a
working group of both parties and houses of Congress to do that.

It now seems more likely than before that Mr. Obama is ready to lead the way,
uniting problem-solvers in both parties out of a long-stalemated debate.

He'd better, because the alternative -- another crashing letdown and the
traditional exchanges of blame -- is awful to consider. Expectations for reform
have been steadily rising since the unprecedented Hispanic turnout and
Democratic victories of last November. Those hopes have been given a dreadful
urgency by the harsh enforcement regime of raids and deportations begun under
the Bush administration, which have piled suffering onto hopelessness for
millions of people, but not brought the country any closer to a solution.

Thankfully, a path forward is coming into view.

Give credit, too, to Senator Charles Schumer of New York, who assumed leadership
of the immigration subcommittee from the ailing Edward Kennedy. In a speech the
day before the White House meeting, Mr. Schumer laid out core principles that
could be a solid foundation for a bipartisan immigration deal.

The speech was notably tough-sounding, but the principles were solid. Illegal
immigration is wrong. The borders and workplace need tighter enforcement.
Illegal immigrants must be required to register, learn English and pay taxes --
or face deportation. But they should also be allowed to seek citizenship. The
path back to a lawful system is through legalization and an improved,
well-managed immigration flow.

Polls show that an overwhelming majority of Americans accept these principles,
and it's possible to imagine Congress uniting around them, too.

If there is a sticking point, it is the one argued forcefully by Senator John
McCain after Thursday's meeting: how to manage the future immigrant flow.

Many reform advocates are exploring the idea of a nonpartisan commission to set
visa numbers for industries that need workers. Labor unions like the idea,
businesses don't, because both see the mechanism as a way to turn the flow of
cheap labor on and off -- mostly off. We have our own serious doubts about a
commission, beginning with the questionable assumption that the immigrant flow
can be controlled like a tap, and that such a mechanism can be designed to fully
protect workers' rights and dignity.

Getting to an agreement on a commission -- or its alternative -- will be hard
work. But at least it's a real debate, not the old phony argument over
''amnesty'' and the delusional belief that the mass deportations of 12 million
people are realistic or desirable.

It seems, at last, that Congress can reach solid agreement that immigration will
not be fixed through enforcement and expulsion alone. It seems clear, too, that
if nothing happens in this Congress, the issue will be swallowed by election
politics next year, and the country could end up waiting years, if not a
generation, for another chance to fix the system.

All the more reason to urge the president and Congress forward on the path they
laid out this week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Delayed For 'Dream Act' Campaign Focus

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
18

LENGTH: 104 words


Immigration authorities have postponed for one year the deportation of Walter
Lara, an immigrant from Argentina who said he had come to the United States
illegally with his parents when he was 3, officials said. Mr. Lara, an honors
graduate of high school and community college in Miami, was the focus of a
campaign by supporters of proposed legislation known as the Dream Act, which
would grant legal status to young illegal immigrants who have lived for years in
the United States. Lawmakers including Senator Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat,
wrote a letter on his behalf. Mr. Lara was scheduled to be deported on July 6.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Government To Require Verification Of Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 637 words


The Obama administration will require businesses that win federal contracts to
use a government electronic database system to verify that their employees have
legal immigration status to work in the United States, Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano said on Wednesday.

After a six-month review, Homeland Security officials decided to go ahead with a
worker-verification plan based on the electronic system, called E-Verify. The
system, which the Bush administration sought to put into effect in its final
months, is meant to prevent federal contractors from hiring illegal immigrants.

At the same time, Homeland Security officials said they would drop another Bush
administration proposal that would have forced employers to fire any workers
whose Social Security information did not match the records of the Social
Security Administration. That measure, called the no-match rule, had been
challenged in federal court by immigrant advocates and businesses, who said the
Social Security database contained errors that could have cost thousands of
legal workers their jobs.

Administration officials said the court battle over the no-match rule, which
never went into effect, would now end.

The move to expand the use of E-Verify reflects the Obama administration's
strategy of keeping up the pace of immigration enforcement while weighing
whether to push for an overhaul this year that would give legal status to
millions of illegal workers, officials said.

But the E-Verify system has also been criticized by immigrant advocacy groups
and is facing a challenge in federal court by the United States Chamber of
Commerce and other business groups, who say the databases it relies on are also
full of errors.

''It's the wrong move at the wrong time'' said Marielena Hincapie, executive
director of the National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles, one of the
groups that challenged the no-match rule. While welcoming the cancellation of
that rule, Ms. Hincapie said errors in the E-Verify system could lead to legal
workers, including citizens, being fired in the midst of the recession.

Unlike the no-match rule, E-Verify does not rely only on Social Security
records, but also searches Homeland Security immigration records. Last year, the
system expanded to include information about immigrants who became citizens.

Homeland Security officials said that as a result of recent improvements to the
E-Verify system, 96.9 percent of workers who submitted identity information from
October to December last year were immediately verified as eligible to work.

Until now, E-Verify has been voluntary, used mainly by employers to check the
legal status of workers at hiring. Officials said that under the new regulation,
to take effect on Sept. 8, contractors would have to verify all workers,
including current employees, when they were awarded work by the federal
government.

Illegal immigrants have often presented false Social Security numbers when
seeking jobs.

Angelo I. Amador, executive director for immigration policy at the United States
Chamber of Commerce, said that while businesses would like to have a reliable
national system to confirm workers' status, they objected to being required to
use E-Verify, which was set up to be voluntary. Mr. Amador said that Intel, the
computer chip maker, had reported finding errors in 13 percent of E-Verify
responses to queries it made for current employees.

Support for a mandatory federal worker verification system is growing in
Congress. Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who heads the
judiciary subcommittee on immigration, has called for a biometric system to
check every worker, including Americans, and on Wednesday the Senate approved an
amendment by Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, to extend E-Verify
permanently.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 11, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Judges Found Under Strain

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 532 words


Surging caseloads and a chronic lack of resources to handle them are taking a
toll on judges in the nation's immigration courts, leaving them frustrated and
demoralized, a new study has found.

The study, published in a Georgetown University law journal, applied a
psychological scale for testing professional stress and exhaustion to 96
immigration court judges who agreed to participate, just under half of all
judges hearing immigration cases. The survey found that the strain on them was
similar to that on prison wardens and hospital physicians, groups shown in
comparable studies to experience exceptionally high stress.

Surprising the researchers, 59 immigration judges wrote comments on the survey
questionnaire elaborating on why they felt discouraged. In the comments, which
were reported anonymously, the judges spoke of an overwhelming volume of cases
with insufficient time for careful review, a shortage of law clerks and language
interpreters, and failing computers and equipment for recording hearings.

''We judges have to grovel like mangy street dogs'' to win exemptions from
unrealistic goals to complete cases, one judge commented. Another wrote of the
''drip-drip-drip of Chinese water torture'' from court administrators demanding
more and faster decisions. A third judge cited ''the persistent lack of
sufficient time to be really prepared for the cases,'' while still another said
simply, ''There is not enough time to think.''

Unlike federal courts generally, immigration courts are not part of the judicial
branch but are run by an agency of the Justice Department, the Executive Office
for Immigration Review. In 2006, Alberto R. Gonzales, then attorney general,
reported serious problems with overload and flawed rulings in the immigration
courts. He outlined 22 measures the department should take to improve the
courts, including hiring more immigration judges.

The department recently hired four new judges and announced plans to hire a
total of 28 this year. But a report this month by the Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse, a research group at Syracuse University that analyzes
government data, found that the department had failed to meet its most important
goals for training judges and giving them more assistance.

Many of the cases immigration judges hear are from people seeking asylum in the
United States, claiming they would face life-threatening persecution if they
returned  home.

But the troubling, complex facts of the asylum cases do not affect the judges as
much as the pressure to dispatch them quickly, said Dr. Stuart L. Lustig, a
professor of psychiatry at the University of California, San Francisco, who led
the study, published in  The Georgetown Immigration Law Journal.

One judge said, ''This job is supposed to be about doing justice, but the
conditions under which we work make it more and more challenging to ensure that
justice is done.''

Bernard Wolfsdorf, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
the immigration bar, said: ''If you go into these courts and see the workload,
you ask, Is this a real American court? It appears that this broken system is
wearing down many of the good judges.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 15, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts Takes a Step Back From Health Care for All

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1021 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The new state budget in Massachusetts eliminates health care coverage for some
30,000 legal immigrants to help close a growing deficit, reversing progress
toward universal coverage just as Congress looks to the state as a model for
overhauling the nation's health care system.

The affected immigrants,  permanent residents who have had green cards for less
than five years,  are now covered under Commonwealth Care, a subsidized
insurance program for low-income residents that is central to the groundbreaking
health care law enacted here in 2006.

Critics of the cut, which would save an estimated  $130 million, say it unfairly
targets taxpaying residents and threatens the state's health care experiment at
a critical time.

''It either sends the message that health care reform cannot be done, period,''
said Eva Millona, executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition, ''or it opens the door to doing it halfway and excluding
immigrants from the process.''

Gov. Deval Patrick has proposed restoring $70 million to the program, which
would partly restore the immigrants' coverage. But legislative leaders have
balked, saying vital programs for other groups would have to be cut as a result.
The cut, which would affect only nondisabled adults from 18 to 65 years old,
would take effect in August unless the legislature approves Mr. Patrick's
proposal.

''The governor has made a very good and compelling case relative to providing
for legal immigrants,'' Robert A. DeLeo, the speaker of the State House of
Representatives, said Monday. ''On the other hand, there is only so much money
that we have.''

With tax collections down by $2.7 billion in the fiscal year that ended June 30
and still dropping, lawmakers may have no choice but to make further cuts in the
$27 billion budget approved this month. That makes Mr. Patrick's proposal all
the more problematic, according to the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a
nonpartisan watchdog group.

''It's bad timing,'' said Michael J. Widmer, the group's president. ''This
budget casualty may be more under the national microscope than others, but there
is no shortage of casualties across the board.''

Because of its three-year-old law, Massachusetts has the country's lowest
percentage of uninsured residents:  2.6 percent, compared with a national
average of 15 percent. The law requires that almost every resident have
insurance, and to meet that goal, the state subsidizes coverage for those
earning up to three times the federal poverty level, or $66,150 for a family of
four.

But the recession has made an already difficult experiment far more challenging.
Enrollment in Commonwealth Care has risen sharply in recent months, to 181,000,
as more people have lost jobs. That increase, combined with plummeting state
revenues, made it impossible to maintain last year's level of service, said
Cyndi Roy, a spokeswoman for the state's Executive Office for Administration and
Finance.

In addition to dropping the immigrant insurance program, Commonwealth Care will
save an estimated $63 million by no longer automatically enrolling low-income
residents who fail to enroll themselves.

Under the 1996 federal law that overhauled the nation's welfare system, the
30,000 immigrants affected by the loss of coverage also do not qualify for
Medicaid or other federal aid. Massachusetts is one of the states, including
California, New York and Pennsylvania, that nonetheless provide at least some
health coverage for such immigrants.

Laura Porto, who moved here from Venezuela and has had permanent residency for
three years, said losing her state-subsidized coverage would end her treatment
for bipolar disorder, including weekly therapy, monthly consultations with a
psychiatrist and medication.

''I am so afraid -- if I lose it, I don't know what my life is going to be,''
said Ms. Porto, 58, who said she lost employer-sponsored coverage when she was
fired because of her illness. ''If I don't have it, I am going to be in danger,
and I don't have any other way to have insurance unless I find a job, which is
very difficult right now because no one is hiring.''

Mr. Patrick, a Democrat who is up for re-election next year, said Tuesday in an
interview that dropping insurance for legal immigrants would send the wrong
message about the state's commitment to universal health care.

''I know we don't have very much money, but we made a commitment in this
commonwealth to embark down this health care reform path,'' he said. ''We ought
to do what we can to keep it intact, and rather than just drop these folks who
are good, hard-working, contributing members of our community, I'm just looking
for some way to find a compromise here.''

Mr. Patrick said it was too early to elaborate on what form the curtailed
coverage would take.

Lindsey M. Tucker, health reform policy manager at Health Care for All, an
advocacy group in Boston, said that restoring $70 million to the program might
provide some preventive and emergency care.

''It's in no way the best solution,'' she said, ''but it looks like we are going
to need a compromise given the difficult climate.''

If the full $130 million cut survives, hospitals that provide free care to the
poor will need to spend an additional $87 million this year treating immigrants
who lose their coverage, according to the Massachusetts Hospital Association.
That would come on top of a $40 million cut in the state's Health Safety Net,
which reimburses such hospitals, said Tim Gens, the association's executive vice
president.

What the state needs, said Philip W. Johnston, chairman of the Blue Cross Blue
Shield of Massachusetts Foundation and a former state secretary of health and
human services, is a dedicated revenue stream to protect its pioneering system
from cyclical downturns in the economy.

The revenue, Mr. Johnston said, should come from an income tax surcharge on the
wealthiest, as House leaders in Washington have proposed for a  federal health
plan. ''Otherwise,'' he said, ''the program is going to be subject to the ups
and downs of the economy forever.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Laura Porto, 58, a legal immigrant from Venezuela, said that
losing her state-subsidized health coverage would force her to stop treatment
for bipolar disorder.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CJ GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. Deval Patrick wants to restore $70 million to partly cover legal
immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Policy Permits Asylum for Battered Women

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words


The Obama administration has opened the way for foreign women who are victims of
severe domestic beatings and sexual abuse to receive asylum in the United
States. The action reverses a Bush administration stance in a protracted and
passionate legal battle over the possibilities for battered women to become
refugees.

In addition to meeting other strict conditions for asylum, abused women will
need to show that they are treated by their abuser as subordinates and little
better than property, according to an immigration court filing by the
administration, and that domestic abuse is widely tolerated in their country.
They must show that they could not find protection from institutions at home or
by moving to another place within their own country.

The administration laid out its position in an immigration appeals court filing
in the case of a woman from Mexico who requested asylum, saying she feared she
would be murdered by her common-law husband there. According to court documents
filed in San Francisco, the man repeatedly raped her at gunpoint, held her
captive, stole from her and at one point tried to burn her alive when he learned
she was pregnant.

The government submitted its legal brief in April, but the woman only recently
gave her consent for the confidential case documents to be disclosed to The New
York Times. The government has marked a clear, although narrow, pathway for
battered women seeking asylum, lawyers said, after 13 years of tangled court
arguments, including resistance from the Bush administration to recognize any of
those claims.

Moving cautiously, the Department of Homeland Security did not immediately
recommend asylum for the Mexican woman, who is identified in the court papers
only by her initials as L.R. But the department, in the unusual submission
written by senior government lawyers, concluded in plain terms that ''it is
possible'' that the Mexican woman ''and other applicants who have experienced
domestic violence could qualify for asylum.''

As recently as last year, Bush administration lawyers had argued in the same
case that in spite of her husband's brutality, L.R. and other battered women
could not meet the standards of American asylum law.

''This really opens the door to the protection of women who have suffered these
kinds of violations,'' said Karen Musalo, a professor who is director of the
Center for Gender and Refugee Studies at the University of California Hastings
College of the Law in San Francisco. Professor Musalo has represented other
abused women seeking asylum and recently took up the case of L.R.

The Obama administration's position caps a legal odyssey for foreign women
seeking protection in the United States from domestic abuse that began in 1996
when a Guatemalan woman named Rody Alvarado was granted asylum by an immigration
court, based on her account of repeated beatings by her husband. Three years
later, an immigration appeals court overturned Ms. Alvarado's asylum, saying she
was not part of any persecuted group under American law.

Since then Ms. Alvarado's case has stalled as successive administrations debated
the issue, with immigration officials reluctant to open a floodgate of asylum
petitions from battered women across the globe. During the Clinton
administration, Attorney General Janet Reno proposed regulations to clarify the
matter, but they have never gone into effect. In a briefing paper in 2004,
lawyers for the Department of Homeland Security raised the possibility of asylum
for victims of domestic violence, but the Bush administration never put that
into practice in immigration court, Professor Musalo said.

Now Homeland Security officials say they are returning to views the department
put forward in 2004, refining them to draw conditions sufficiently narrow that
battered women would prevail in only a limited number cases.

''Although each case is highly fact-dependent and requires scrutiny of the
specific threat an applicant faces,'' said Matt Chandler, a spokesman for the
Department of Homeland Security, ''the department continues to view domestic
violence as a possible basis for asylum in the United States.'' He said
officials hoped to complete regulations governing the complex cases.

The new policy does not involve women fleeing genital mutilation.

Any applicant for asylum or refugee status in the United States must demonstrate
a ''well-founded fear of persecution'' because of race, religion, nationality,
political opinion or ''membership in a particular social group.'' The extended
legal argument has been whether abused women could be part of any social group
that would be eligible under those terms. Last year, 22,930 people won asylum in
this country fleeing all types of persecution; the number has been decreasing in
recent years.

Because asylum cases are confidential, there is no way of knowing how many
applications by battered women have been denied or held up over the last decade.
The issue is further complicated by the peculiarities of the United States
immigration system, in which asylum cases are heard in courts that are not part
of the federal judiciary, but are run by an agency of the Justice Department,
with Homeland Security officials representing the government.

The government has not disputed the painful history that L.R.,  now 42, recounts
in a court declaration. The man who became her tormentor first assaulted her
when she was a teenager  and he was a physical education coach, 14 years her
senior, at a high school in the Mexican state of Guanajuato. He and his family
were regarded as wealthy and influential because they owned a restaurant in
town, L.R. said.

Over the years, he made her live with him, and forced her to have sex with him
by putting a gun or a machete to her head, by breaking her nose and by
threatening to kill the small children of her sister. Once when she became
pregnant, she said, she barely escaped alive after he had poured kerosene on the
bed where she was sleeping and ignited it. He stole the salary she earned as a
teacher and later sold her teacher's license.

Local police dismissed her reports of violence as ''a private matter,'' the
court documents said, and a judge she turned to for help tried to seduce her.

''In Mexico, men believe they have a right to abuse their women because they are
like a possession,'' she said. With three children born from her involuntary sex
with the man, who never married her, she fled to California in 2004.

An immigration judge denied her asylum claim in 2006. In its new filing, the
government urged that L.R.'s  case be sent back to the immigration court for
further review, suggesting she might still succeed. But the government also
injected a caveat, insisting that ''this does not mean that every victim of
domestic violence would be eligible for asylum.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rody Alvarado sought asylum in the United States after fleeing
abuse in Guatemala.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD BOSWELL)(pg. A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 17, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Enforcing Federal Immigration Laws, With Local Help

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 263 words


To the Editor:

Re ''More Immigration Non-Solutions'' (editorial, July 13):

I take issue with your assertion that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement's
287(g) program is ''misguided, ineffective and dangerous.''

Among other things, the program enables state and local law enforcement
officials to deploy resources and manpower in their communities to enforce
federal immigration laws, a force multiplier for federal law enforcement.

The program has been effective. Since January 2006, 287(g)-trained officers have
identified more than 120,000 people, predominantly in jails, who are in the
country illegally and have committed serious crimes while here. Finding and
removing these criminal aliens is critical to our nation's overall interior
enforcement strategy.

I recently announced a new memorandum of agreement that improves 287(g) by
bolstering required reporting, establishing new and strict benchmarks for
performance, and requiring our state and local partners to focus solely on
criminal aliens. It enhances civil rights training for the 66 jurisdictions
across the country already participating in 287(g) and the 11 additional that
have just joined.

The program focuses on jail and constructive task force models and has
significantly heightened oversight by I.C.E. headquarters.

These changes ensure accountability and civil rights protections while
preserving and strengthening these unique law enforcement partnerships.

John Morton

Assistant Secretary for Immigration

and Customs Enforcement

Department of Homeland Security

Washington, July 14, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 30, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts Adjusts a Cut, Providing Some Health Care for 30,000 Immigrants

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Massachusetts trimmed its ambitious plan to provide health care for virtually
all its residents on Wednesday when the legislature failed to restore enough
money to the budget to provide full benefits for 30,000 legal immigrants.

It did, however, provide for partial coverage, relieving some supporters of the
program, who had feared that the cuts would be deeper.

Last month, to help close a gaping deficit, the legislature eliminated health
insurance for the immigrants, which cost about $130 million a year. Wednesday's
vote restored $40 million  -- about 30 percent -- leaving unclear just how much
care the affected immigrants would qualify for. Those affected are permanent
residents who have had green cards for less than five years.

It was the first retreat for the health care experiment just as Congress looked
to the state as a model.

''It's a first step, and we're pleased they will be covered,'' Eva Millona,
executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy
Coalition, said of the partial restoration. ''But we still remain very concerned
as to what type of coverage they will receive.''

Ms. Millona and other critics of the original  cut had said it unfairly affected
taxpaying residents and reversed progress toward near-universal coverage.

Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, wanted lawmakers to restore $70 million to the
program, but legislative leaders resisted, saying too many other vital programs
would have to be cut.

The affected immigrants are covered under Commonwealth Care, a subsidized
insurance program for low-income residents that is central to the state's
landmark universal health care law.

The reduced benefits, which will affect only nondisabled adults ages 18 to 65,
will take effect in September. Ms. Millona said she hoped that the immigrants
would at least remain eligible for emergency care and some preventive care.

Under the 1996 federal law that overhauled the nation's welfare system, the
30,000 immigrants affected by the loss of coverage do not qualify for Medicaid
or other federal aid. Massachusetts is one of the few states -- others are
California, New York and Pennsylvania -- that nonetheless provide at least some
health coverage for such immigrants.

Because of its three-year-old law, Massachusetts has the country's lowest
percentage of uninsured residents: 2.6 percent, compared with a national average
of 15 percent. The law requires that almost every resident have insurance, and
to meet that goal, the state subsidizes coverage for those earning up to three
times the federal poverty level, or $66,150 for a family of four.

But the recession has made an already difficult experiment far more challenging.
Enrollment in Commonwealth Care has risen sharply in recent months, to 181,000,
as more people have lost jobs. That increase, combined with plummeting state
revenues, made it impossible to maintain last year's level of service, state
officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Deval Patrick sought greater financing for immigrants'
benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH REYNOLDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Says Immigration Changes Remain on His Agenda, but for 2010 Enactment

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON and MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: GUADALAJARA, Mexico


Flanked by his counterparts from Mexico and Canada, President Obama on Monday
reiterated his commitment to pursuing comprehensive immigration reform, despite
his packed political agenda  and the staunch opposition such an initiative is
likely to face.

Mr. Obama predicted that he would be successful but acknowledged the challenges,
saying, ''I've got a lot on my plate.'' He added that there would almost
certainly be ''demagogues out there who try to suggest that any form or pathway
for legalization for those who are already in the United States is
unacceptable.''

But in the most detailed outline yet of his timetable, the president said that
he expected Congress, after completing work on health care, energy and financial
regulation, to draft immigration bills this year. He said he would begin work on
getting the measures passed in 2010.

''Now, am I going to be able to snap my fingers and get this done? No,'' the
president said. ''But ultimately, I think the American people want fairness. And
we can create a system in which you have strong border security and an orderly
process for people to come in. But we're also giving an opportunity for those
who are already in the United States to be able to achieve a pathway to
citizenship so they don't have to live in the shadows.''

The president's comments came during a news conference at the end of a summit
meeting of North American leaders aimed at increasing cooperation in the region
and resolving some of the issues that have long strained trilateral relations
among the countries, whose people and economies depend heavily on one another.

During the meetings, which began Sunday afternoon, Mr. Obama, President Felipe
Calderon of Mexico and Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada discussed climate
change and clean energy, swine flu, immigration, trade and organized crime.
While it was clear at the news conference that the three leaders had not reached
any significant new agreements, they expressed understanding for one another's
positions and vowed to keep working to resolve outstanding disputes.

Mr. Harper, for example, stood by a decision a month ago to require Mexicans to
apply for visas but said that the problems were Canada's, not Mexico's. ''It is
simply far too easy to make a bogus refugee claim as a way of entering the
country,'' he said. ''And we have to change that.''

A ''Buy American'' provision attached to the United States stimulus package has
ignited a political storm in Canada. But on Monday, Mr. Obama played down the
scope of the program, saying it was something he had grudgingly accepted to
achieve the greater purpose of pumping money into America's flailing economy.

''I think it's important to keep this in perspective,'' Mr. Obama said. ''This
in no way has endangered the billions of dollars in trade taking place between
our two countries.''

Mr. Obama offered a spirited defense of Mr. Calderon's efforts to rein in the
drug cartels, a fight that has left nearly 4,200 people dead this year.
Recently, Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, raised concerns about human
rights abuses in the drug war, and Democratic legislators have threatened to
withhold some financial support.

At the news conference, Mr. Obama said unequivocally that he would push for
continuing America's support for the Mexican effort, adding, ''The biggest, by
far, violators of human rights right now are the cartels themselves that are
kidnapping people, extorting people and encouraging corruption.''

Mr. Calderon issued his own passionate defense, saying, ''The struggle, the
battle, the fight against organized crime is precisely to preserve the human
rights of Mexican people.''

The Mexican Supreme Court supported the army on Monday by declining to take up a
case pushed by human rights advocates that challenged the use of military
prosecutors, instead of civilian ones, in pursuing charges against rogue
soldiers.

If there were divisions on other issues, all three leaders seemed united in
their support for Manuel Zelaya, the Honduran president who was ousted June 28
in what countries around the world have condemned as a coup.

''Let me be very clear in our belief that President Zelaya was removed from
office illegally, that it was a coup and that he should return,'' Mr. Obama
said. He dismissed as ''hypocrisy'' the criticism from some in Latin America who
say the United States has done too little to pressure Honduras's de facto
government to return Mr. Zelaya to power -- among them Mr. Zelaya himself.

''The critics who say that the United States has not intervened enough in
Honduras,'' he said, ''are the same people who say that we're always
intervening, and that the Yankees need to get out of Latin America.''

Because of Mr. Zelaya's ouster, the United States has supported suspending
Honduras from the Organization of American States and has cut $16.5 million in
military assistance. The United States, which is Honduras's largest trading
partner, has been reluctant, however, to call for tougher economic sanctions.

Critics of Washington's approach, led by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela,
accuse the United States of placating the small group of Honduran elite who are
among those who support Mr. Zelaya's removal. Senior administration officials
have said they were concerned about destabilizing the third-poorest country in
the hemisphere.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unscrupulous Lawyers Are Said to Prey on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1047 words


For $2,800, Silvia Alfaro said, a well-known immigration lawyer in Salt Lake
City promised that her husband would get a green card and her family a shot at
their American dream.

Ms. Alfaro, a United States citizen, said she told the lawyer, James Hector
Alcala, that her husband, Leonel, had lived illegally in this country for 17
years and once was deported. Mr. Alcala promised to take care of everything, she
recalled, and he said her husband was a good man.

But when, at the lawyer's urging, Mr. Alfaro showed up last April at a federal
immigration office in Salt Lake City for an interview for a green card, he was
immediately taken into custody. The next day he was on a plane back to Mexico.

''I felt completely destroyed,'' said Ms. Alfaro, 30. ''I am positive Alcala
lied to me and stole from me.''

On July 28, federal law enforcement and immigration officials gathered in Salt
Lake to announce the indictmentof Mr. Alcala, 41, on charges that since 2005 he
had orchestrated a huge immigration fraud operation out of his local law office.

Among other things, they said, he promised American companies thousands of
temporary work papers, known as H-2B visas, for employees who were living in
this country illegally and therefore not eligible for the documents. At one
point Mr. Alcala grew so brazen he used the names of professional Mexican soccer
players to apply for the visas, said Jonathan Lines, who oversees investigations
in Utah for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Scams involving people who pose as licensed immigration consultants or
neighborhood hucksters who seduce illegal immigrants with the lure of easy legal
papers have been common for years. But Mr. Alcala's case and others like it are
different in that they involve actual lawyers, a trend some immigrant rights
advocates and lawyers say is occurring more and more often.

''It has been getting worse,'' said Cheryl Little, executive director of the
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami. ''Immigrants are easy prey for
unscrupulous attorneys, and they are often unwilling and unable to complain
because they are likely to be deported if they do.''

In 2000, the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the Justice Department arm
that oversees immigration courts, began disciplining immigration lawyers who ran
afoul of the law. Since then, it has suspended or expelled  more than  300 such
lawyers from practicing in immigration courts. But that has not stopped
predatory lawyers from exploiting illegal immigrants and the companies that hire
them, most of whom are unfamiliar with the labyrinth of federal immigration
laws.

A former president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, Charles
Kuck, who represents some of Mr. Alcala's old clients, says shadowy lawyers
emerge any time Congress considers taking up an overhaul of immigration laws.

''Every state has a James Alcala -- a man or a woman who has been arrested or
indicted, or should be arrested or indicted, for engaging in fraudulent
activity,'' Mr. Kuck said.

Mr. Alcala's lawyer, Susanne Gustin, would not comment. Mr. Alcala, who has been
released from custody pending trial, which has not been scheduled, did not
return phone calls to his law firm. If convicted, he faces up to 10 years in
prison.

Court papers in the Alcala case say that the smooth-talking lawyer assured
client companies that he could secure the prized H-2B visas for their workers,
whom he then instructed to return to Mexico and lie to United States consul
officials.

In an effort to falsely convince those officials that one illegal immigrant had
never been to the United States, Mr. Alcala told the man to ''show up wearing
huaraches [Mexican sandals] and a sombrero,'' according to the indictment. It
charges the lawyer and seven other defendants, including a former Border Patrol
agent and a former consul worker, with 17 counts of visa fraud and conspiracy to
smuggle aliens into the United States.

The authorities say Mr. Alcala obtained at least 5,000 H-2B visas for American
companies, most through fraud and forgery.Some companies that hired him --
including landscaping and construction  -- did not know the documents they paid
for were gotten illegally, said a spokeswoman for the United States attorney in
Utah, Brett L. Tolman.

''There were a lot of people who were getting hurt, who were trying to do things
legitimately, but Alcala never explained what would happen to them,'' said Lance
Starr, an immigration lawyer who once worked for Mr. Alcala, but grew suspicious
that the firm was breaking the law. ''He was telling people, 'I can make you
legal quickly and easily,' and for them, it was their only hope.''

Two years ago, the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center began a public service
campaign in Creole and Spanish, warning people of immigration scams, including
those perpetrated by lawyers. Recently, Ms. Little said she was made aware of
widespread H-2B visa rackets in Florida. Other cases involving immigration
lawyers accused of fraud have unfolded this year across the United States.

Federal officials are still trying to untangle the cases stemming from Mr.
Alcala's activities, which they say are complex as they are expansive. And
immigration officials are faced with figuring out how to deal with the hundreds,
perhaps thousands, of illegal immigrants for whom Mr. Alcala got fraudulent
documents, and evaluating which workers and companies were complicit.

Other immigration lawyers in Utah may be perpetrating similar scams,  Mr. Lines
said.

In the wake of the Alcala investigation, scores of illegal immigrants who had
paid him for help inundated Salt Lake lawyers with phone calls, fearful that
their chances for legal residency in the United States were ruined.

A Salt Lake immigration lawyer, Aaron Tarin, said his office was dealing with
about five cases per week involving Mr. Alcala's former clients. One client is
Silvia Alfaro, whom Mr. Tarin now represents in her efforts to salvage  her
husband's case.

''The biggest harm here is that immigration lawyers have traditionally been the
only real bridge between immigrants coming to this country and the American
dream,'' Mr. Tarin said. ''This case undermines not only that trust, but the
system as a whole.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Silvia Alfaro said a lawyer mishandled the case of her husband,
an illegal immigrant. With her are their two sons, Leonel Medina, 9, and
Guadalupe Medina, 6. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 16, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Race and Diversity in the Age of Obama

BYLINE: By ORLANDO PATTERSON.

Orlando Patterson is a professor of sociology at Harvard and the author of ''The
Ordeal of Integration: Progress and Resentment in America's 'Racial' Crisis.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CROSSROADS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1413 words


Barack Obama's historic victory was made possible by two great converging forces
that began near the middle of the last century: the civil rights revolution and
the changes engendered by the Immigration Act of 1965. The civil rights movement
led to the rapid dismantling of Jim Crow and the inclusion of black Americans in
politics, the military, the middle class and popular culture. The 1965
immigration act set in motion vast demographic and social changes that have
altered the nation's ethno-racial landscape.

At present, the foreign-born represent 12.6 percent of the total American
population (this is still less than the 14.7 percent reached in 1910, during the
earlier great wave of migration). A little over half of these immigrants are
from Latin America and a quarter are from Asia. Over all, minorities now
constitute slightly over a third of the population; in four states, minorities
are the majority: Hawaii (75 percent), New Mexico (58 percent), California (57
percent) and Texas (52 percent), as they are in the District of Columbia (68
percent). It has been all too easy to misinterpret and sensationalize these
demographic changes.

Thus Hispanics, we are often told, are now the largest ethnic group in the
nation, displacing blacks and overturning America's historic emphasis on
black-white relations. But Hispanics are a varied collection of ethnic groups.
They are not, and will never become, a single entity. Whatever Judge Sonia
Sotomayor may have meant, a wise New York woman of Puerto Rican ancestry has a
profoundly different view of the world than a Latina farm laborer in Southern
California or an upper-income Chilean-American professional in Florida.

Even more problematic are periodic jeremiads declaring the demographic demise of
the so-called non-Hispanic white population. ''The massive Hispanic immigration
after 1965,'' Samuel Huntington wrote in his sadly misinformed book, ''Who Are
We?,''  ''could make America increasingly bifurcated in terms of language
(English and Spanish) and culture (Anglo and Hispanic).'' Huntington raised the
''highly probable'' prospect of a revival of racial nativism.

The bogus demographic invention ''non-Hispanic whites'' is partly the source of
such groundless alarums. The more meaningful sociological category is that of
people defining themselves as exclusively white, currently about 80 percent of
the population and growing, thanks to the fact that almost half of all Hispanics
now define themselves as ''white alone.''

Until recently, the conventional wisdom among social scientists was that the
adjustment of recent immigrants to America would be fundamentally different from
that of the European immigrants of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It
has been claimed that they are from different ''races'' and are entering a
harsher postindustrial America with fewer opportunities for mobility, and also
that the ease of communication and travel to their homelands discourages
assimilation.

However, these arguments miss the real sociological drama that is now unfolding:
the present wave of immigrants and their children are rapidly assimilating into
an ever-vibrant American mainstream culture, and at a pace greater than the
Europeans who came during the previous large wave. The assumption that the
current wave should find adjustment harder because they come from different
''races'' rests on a hopeless misconception. At the time of their arrival, Jews,
Italians and other Eastern and Southern Europeans -- and even the Catholic Irish
-- were viewed by native whites as belonging to very different (and inferior)
races. In fact, they did not assimilate because they were white; they became
''white'' because they assimilated.

As assimilation continues, studies show that whatever the language spoken at
home, the children of recent immigrants nearly all come to use English as their
first language, and they are as American in their attitudes and behavior as
their native counterparts. Indeed, the definitive, 10-year investigation by
Philip Kasinitz, John H. Mollenkopf, Mary C. Waters and Jennifer Holdaway,
entitled ''Inheriting the City: The Children of Immigrants Come of Age,''
reports a ''second-generation advantage.'' Immigrants' children are caught
between highly motivated, hard-working parents and the challenges of the
American environment, and this actually contributes to their success.

There are, to be sure, varying degrees of success and different patterns of
adjustment to America, but underlying them all is one powerful ''master trend'':
surprisingly rapid Americanization. The authoritative synthesis of the present
processes of assimilation is Richard Alba and Victor Nee's sociological
masterpiece, ''Remaking the American Mainstream.'' It shows that for nonblacks,
assimilation is alive and well in America. It is not passive integration into a
static, Anglo-Protestant mainstream (which was always a sociological fiction
anyway), but an endlessly dynamic two-way cultural process.

The great exception to this process of social incorporation is black Americans.
There are two major reasons for this: One is black poverty, which, at almost 25
percent, stands at three times the white rate, just as it did in 1970. Black
poverty is the result of a tragic interaction of socioeconomic and cultural
forces, succinctly analyzed in William Julius Wilson's elegant work, ''More Than
Just Race: Being Black and Poor in the Inner City.'' In his unremittingly grim
account of American inequality, ''Categorically Unequal: The American
Stratification System,'' the eminent sociologist Douglas S. Massey locates
immigrant and native blacks, as well as Mexican-Americans, at the bottom of a
social structure rooted in nearly immutable class, racial and gender prejudice,
as well as covert discrimination. Massey outdoes Huntington in the depth of his
pessimism.

Massey's analysis makes frightening good sense -- until I realize that he is
talking partly about me and my many West Indian immigrant friends and relatives
who have prospered here, not to mention that other second-generation black
politician who almost made it to the White House, Colin Powell. Then some of
Massey's bad news seems unreal although, truth be told, West Indians are
notoriously insensitive to the white-eyed hounds of racism nipping at their
naive immigrant psyches. That is, except on those occasions when they flip into
revolutionary outrage, producing a disproportionate number of the nation's
first-  and second-generation black militants, like Marcus Garvey (Jamaica) and
Stokely Carmichael (Trinidad).

Closely related to blacks' high poverty rate is their chronic hypersegregation,
true not only of the great majority of poor blacks but of working-class and
middle-class blacks as well. An exhaustively documented study of this subject is
''Urban Inequality: Evidence From Four Cities,'' edited by Alice O'Connor, Chris
Tilly and Lawrence D. Bobo. In private life blacks are almost as isolated from
whites today as they were under Jim Crow. Whatever the reason -- persisting
covert racism, black racial preferences abetted by identity politics, or both --
their isolation means that the problem of ethno-racial relations in America
remains, at heart, a black-white issue. As the example of Henry Louis Gates Jr.
demonstrates, even prominent upper-middle-class blacks risk being racially
profiled and subjected to humiliating treatment by white policemen, as well as
explicit racist abuse.

The United States has worked harder and gone farther than any other advanced
majority-white nation in confronting and righting the wrongs of its racist past.
The crucial questions that the country now faces are these: How can white
citizens, who publicly embrace black citizens as athletic heroes, matinee idols,
pop-music kings, talk-show queens, senators, governors and now president,
continue to shun them in their neighborhoods, schools and private lives? In
their insistent celebration of racial identity, how complicit are black
Americans in their own social isolation? And will Barack Obama, who delicately
straddles both worlds of immigrant success and black identity, be able to
broaden the inclusion of African-Americans? We watch and wait.

This is the third in a series of essays exploring dominant themes and currents
of thought in particular areas of American life, and appearing in this space in
the next few months. An archive can be found at nytimes.com/crossroads.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHARD BAKER)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Judge Clears Egyptian Student Previously Acquitted in Terrorism Case

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE and YOLANNE ALMANZAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 638 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A federal immigration judge on Friday reached the same conclusion as the jury
that acquitted Youssef Megahed on terrorism-related charges in April: The
government did not prove its case.

The judge, Kenneth S. Hurewitz, said the evidence put forward by lawyers from
the Department of Homeland Security did not show that Mr. Megahed, 23, a former
engineering student at the University of South Florida and originally from
Egypt, was engaged in or would probably  engage in terrorist activities.

The government plans to appeal, but the decision -- in a court system with a low
burden of proof, where deportations are the norm -- set Mr. Megahed free after a
two-year ordeal that began when a road trip with a friend led to arrests on
explosives charges after the police found model rocket propellants in the car's
trunk.

The ruling seemed to surprise nearly everyone involved. When Mr. Megahed's
lawyer, Charles Kuck, told the Megahed family what had happened, disbelief
preceded joy.

''We won? Really?'' said Mr. Megahed's father, Samir Megahed, standing outside
the courtroom at the Krome Detention Center here. ''Is he kidding?'' said Mr.
Megahed's sister, Mariam.

Mr. Megahed, a legal resident of the United States, and his family -- who have
lived in this country  about 20 years -- had thought his acquittal in the
terrorism trial would bring the matter to a close.

But three days after Mr. Megahed's trial ended, immigration authorities arrested
him outside a Wal-Mart in Tampa, Fla. His case became a cause celebre among
critics of the immigration system in the United States, and in Egypt, partly
because some of the jurors were so incensed by the second arrest that they
lobbied for his release.

On Monday, the first day of his immigration proceedings, Mr. Kuck asked the
judge to dismiss all the charges. He objected to every piece of evidence the
government introduced, declaring it irrelevant, ''garbage'' and ''a fantasy'' --
a combative approach that led to several shouting matches with Gina
Garrett-Jackson, the lead government lawyer.

Judge Hurewitz ended up allowing only two government witnesses. The first,
Special Agent Frederick W. Humphries II of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
mainly tried to link Mr. Megahed to Ahmed Mohamed, his traveling companion
during the 2007 road trip, who pleaded guilty to providing support for
terrorists by posting a YouTube video showing how to convert a remote-controlled
toy into a bomb. He was sentenced to 15 years in federal prison.

Mr. Humphries said Mr. Megahed and Mr. Mohamed both searched the Internet for
information about Qassam rockets used to attack United States military vehicles.
Someone, logged on as ''Usef'' on the Megahed family computer, also searched for
military equipment, weapons and some Islamic extremist Web sites.

Tim Pivnichny, an F.B.I. computer forensics coordinator, testified that he
believed that Mr. Megahed had downloaded nine video clips, each less than a
minute long, that show combat rockets destroying American military vehicles and
killing American soldiers in the Middle East.

Ms. Garrett-Jackson described Mr. Megahed as an ''enabler'' of Mr. Mohamed. Mr.
Humphries called them a terrorist cell.

But after hours of testimony focused on Mr. Mohamed's activities, Judge Hurewitz
pressed the government for more on Mr. Megahed.

''Besides knowing the guy, what did he do to enable?'' the judge asked at one
point.

In the end, Mr. Kuck's argument that the case was an effort to assign ''guilt by
association'' -- he also emphasized that the videos may not have been seen by
Mr. Megahed, since others used the computers involved -- seemed to have been
persuasive.

Under the terms of his release on Friday, Mr. Megahed must report to immigration
authorities once a month until the government's appeal is heard.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Immigrant Proposal Advances

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 86 words


San Francisco supervisors moved closer to instituting a proposal that would
require under-age illegal immigrants arrested by the police to be convicted of a
crime before they are turned over to immigration authorities. The measure was
approved by the Public Safety Committee of the Board of Supervisors after a
lengthy public hearing. If adopted, the measure would reverse Mayor Gavin
Newsom's stance. The current city policy allows Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to be contacted at the time of a youth's arrest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Critical of Scope and Cost of Immigration Detention

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 491 words


A report on immigration detention released Tuesday by the Obama administration
paints a picture of a costly, inappropriately penal system that is growing
without basic tools for management and monitoring, while the government office
nominally in charge struggles with high turnover and a lack of expertise.

Though the administration has indicated that it wants to concentrate immigration
enforcement on serious criminal offenders, the report shows that one of the
largest and fastest-growing segments of the population in detention is
noncriminals picked up in the enforcement programs the government has embraced.

Those figures are among the surprises in the 35-page report, produced for Janet
Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, by Dora B. Schriro, an adviser
who has since quit to become the correction commissioner in New York City.

The report shows that 60 percent of the 380,000 people detained during the 2009
fiscal year had been turned over to Immigration and Customs Enforcement by state
and local police, mostly through the Criminal Alien Program, which identifies
possible immigration violators in local jails. Others were sent by local law
enforcement officers deputized to enforce federal immigration law through a
program known as 287(g).

Both programs have the stated goal of improving safety through federal-local
partnerships that single out serious criminal offenders for deportation. But
well over half the immigrants taken into custody under the programs had no
criminal convictions, the figures show.

According to the report, 57 percent of the 178,605 people sent through the
Criminal Alien Program in the 2009 fiscal year had no criminal convictions, an
increase since 2008, when noncriminals were 53 percent of the 149,067 detainees
sent through the program.

An even higher proportion of noncriminals were sent through the 287(g) program
-- 65 percent of 44,692 in 2009, down from 72 percent of 37,776 in 2008.

Those numbers are likely to fuel conflicts over both programs, which have been
criticized by advocates for immigrants, who say they give license to racial
profiling. The Schriro report warns that computerized information exchanges
between federal immigration authorities and local police, which are being
expanded, are likely to swell the number of noncriminals transferred into
immigration custody. ''This new technology has the potential to identify large
volumes of aliens with low-level convictions or no convictions,'' the report
said.

In an interview before she left the administration, Dr. Schriro spoke of the
''cognitive dissonance'' between this system and the administration's support
for a path to citizenship for many of the country's estimated 12 million
unauthorized residents.

The tension has been heightened as Citizenship and Immigration Services, a
branch of the Department of Homeland Security, begins planning for that path, in
case a bill authorizing one is passed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 9, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Evangelicals and Immigration

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 92 words


American evangelicals have approved a resolution calling for Congress to approve
changes  in immigration law. The resolution by the directors of the National
Association of Evangelicals passed unanimously. The group represents the heads
of 40 evangelical denominations. The president of the association, Leith
Anderson, said the system for immigrating to the United States must change. The
group recommends laws that would provide a path for immigrants to gain legal
status, give priority to family reunification and reduce backlogs of such
petitions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Editorial: Wrong Paths to Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 457 words


All last week the people of Phoenix witnessed public outbursts by their sheriff,
Joe Arpaio, as he railed against the Department of Homeland Security for
supposedly trying to limit his ability to enforce federal immigration laws. He
vowed to keep scouring Maricopa County for people whose clothing, accents and
behavior betrayed them as likely illegal immigrants. He said he had already
nabbed more than 32,000 people that way, and announced his next immigrant sweep
for Oct. 16.

The spectacle raises two critical questions that the Obama administration is in
danger of getting wrong.

One is the specific question of whether the federal government should keep
Sheriff Arpaio in its 287(g) program, which deputizes local law enforcement to
act as immigration agents in street patrols and in jails. The answer is
absolutely not. Sheriff Arpaio has a long, ugly record of abusing and
humiliating inmates. His scandal-ridden desert jails have lost accreditation and
are notorious places of cruelty and injury. His indiscriminate neighborhood
raids use minor infractions like broken taillights as pretexts for mass
immigration arrests.

To the broader question of whether federal immigration enforcement should be
outsourced en masse in the first place, the answer again is no.

It was only days ago that Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano unveiled
a plan to repair the rotting immigration detention system. The Bush
administration had outsourced the job to state, local and private jailers, with
terrible results: inadequate supervision, appalling conditions, injuries and
deaths.

Ms. Napolitano wants to centralize federal control over the system that handles
detainees. But she insists on continuing to outsource and expand the flawed
machinery that catches them, including 287(g) and a system of jailhouse
fingerprint checks called Secure Communities, which increase the likelihood that
local enforcers will abuse their authority and undermine the law.

Rather than broadening the reach of law enforcement, using local police can
cause immigrant crime victims to fear the police and divert the police from
fighting crime. It leads to racial profiling, to Latino citizens and legal
residents being asked for their papers. Responsible sheriffs and police chiefs
across the country have looked at 287(g) and said no thanks.

Programs like 287(g) rest on the dishonest premise that illegal immigrants are a
vast criminal threat. But only a small percentage are dangerous felons. The vast
majority are those whom President Obama has vowed to help get right with the
law, by paying fines and earning citizenship. Treating the majority of illegal
immigrants as potential Americans, not a criminal horde, is the right response
to the problem.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. CAN'T TRACE FOREIGN VISITORS ON EXPIRED VISAS

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. and JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


Eight years after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and despite repeated mandates
from Congress, the United States still has no reliable system for verifying that
foreign visitors have left the country.

New concern was focused on that security loophole last week, when Hosam Maher
Husein Smadi, a 19-year-old Jordanian who had overstayed his tourist visa, was
accused in court of plotting to blow up a Dallas skyscraper.

Last year alone, 2.9 million foreign visitors on temporary visas like Mr.
Smadi's checked in to the country but never officially checked out, immigration
officials said. While officials say they have no way to confirm it, they suspect
that several hundred thousand of them overstayed their visas.

Over all, the officials said, about 40 percent of the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the United States came on legal visas and overstayed.

Mr. Smadi's case has brought renewed calls from both parties in Congress for
Department of Homeland Security officials to complete a universal electronic
exit monitoring system.

Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the senior Republican on the House
Judiciary Committee, said the Smadi case ''points to a real need for an entry
and exit system if we are serious about reducing illegal immigration.''

Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee's subcommittee on immigration, said he would try to steer money from
the economic stimulus program to build an exit monitoring system.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, immigration authorities, with more than $1 billion
from Congress, have greatly improved and expanded their systems to monitor
foreigners when they arrive. But despite several Congressional authorizations,
there are no biometric inspections or a systematic follow-up to confirm that
foreign visitors have departed.

Homeland security officials caution that universal exit monitoring is a daunting
and costly goal, mainly because of the nation's long and busy land borders, with
more than one million crossings every day. The wrong exit plan, they said, could
clog trade, disrupt border cities and overwhelm immigration agencies with
information they could not effectively use.

Since 2004, homeland security officials have put systems in place to check all
foreigners as they arrive, whether by air, sea or land. Customs officers now
take fingerprints and digital photographs of visitors from most countries,
instantly comparing them against law enforcement watch list databases.
(Canadians and Mexicans with special border-crossing cards are exempt from those
checks.)

But homeland security officials said that a series of pilot programs since 2004
had failed to yield an exit monitoring system that would work for the whole
nation. They have not yet found technology to support speedy exit inspections at
land borders. And airlines balked at an effort last year by the Bush
administration to make them responsible for taking fingerprints and photographs
of departing foreigners.

The current system relies on departing foreigners to turn in a paper stub when
they leave.

Last year, official figures show, 39 million foreign travelers were admitted on
temporary visas like Mr. Smadi's. Based on the paper stubs, homeland security
officials said, they confirmed the departure of 92.5 percent of them. Most of
the remaining visitors did depart, officials said, but failed to check out
because they did not know how to do so. But more than 200,000 of them are
believed to have overstayed intentionally.

Immigration authorities have put in  place a separate system for keeping track
of foreigners who, unlike Mr. Smadi, come on student visas. That system has
proved effective at confirming that the students have stayed in school and do
not overstay their visas, officials said.

Immigration analysts said that given the difficulties of enforcing the United
States' vast borders, it remains primarily up to law enforcement officials to
thwart terrorism suspects who do not have records that would draw scrutiny
before they enter the United States.

''You can't ask the immigration system to do everything,'' said Doris Meissner,
a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a research center in
Washington, and a former commissioner of the immigration service. ''This is an
example of how changes in law enforcement priorities and techniques since Sept.
11 actually got to where they should be.''

Mr. Smadi, like many tourists who overstay visas, was able to fade easily into
society and encountered few barriers to starting a life here, according to court
documents and people who know him. He enrolled in high school, obtained a
California identification card, landed jobs in two states and rented a string of
apartments and houses. He bought at least two used cars, and even procured a
handgun and ammunition.

Mr. Smadi's arrest on Sept. 24 for the attempted bombing was not his first
encounter with American law enforcement. Two weeks earlier, a sheriff's deputy
in Ellis County, Tex., pulled him over for a broken tail light just north of the
town of Italy, then arrested him for driving without a license or insurance.

When the deputy checked his identity, Mr. Smadi's name showed up on a watch list
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which was already investigating him. But
the background check turned up no immigration record. The deputy called the
F.B.I. and was told there was no outstanding arrest warrant for Mr. Smadi. So on
the evening of Sept. 11, Mr. Smadi paid a $550 fine and walked out of the county
jail.

''There was nothing to indicate to us that this person was currently in the
States illegally,'' said Chief Deputy Dennis Brearley.

Mr. Smadi had come to the United States from Jordan in early 2007 on a six-month
tourist visa, immigration officials say.

For a few weeks he stayed in San Jose, Calif., with Hana Elrabodi, a retired
Jordanian businessman who knew his family, according to Mr. Elrabodi's wife,
Temina. Though Mr. Smadi was not authorized to work, he found a job  at a local
restaurant. In late March, Mr. Smadi obtained a California identification card
using Mr. Elrabodi's address.

In October 2007, Mr. Smadi moved into an apartment in Santa Clara with his
younger brother, Hussein Smadi, and another man he identified as his cousin,
according to the manager of the apartment complex, Joe Redzovic. Mr. Smadi took
another job, in a falafel restaurant, and in the winter he briefly enrolled in
the Santa Clara High School.

After a fire gutted his Santa Clara apartment, Mr. Smadi moved to Dallas. Though
his visa had expired by April 2008, he landed a job working behind the counter
at Texas Best Smokehouse in Italy, Tex., about 45 miles from Dallas. He rented a
bungalow nearby, using his California identification and passing a criminal
background check, said his former landlord, David South.

Three months later, Mr. Smadi married one of his co-workers, Rosalinda Duron.
They separated in the fall of 2008 after only three months, Ms. Duron said.

Investigators have found no evidence that Mr. Smadi, during his first year in
the United States, openly espoused Islamic fundamentalism. Neither have they
found any evidence that he received terrorist training abroad or came to the
United States intending to commit a terrorist act, said Mark White, a spokesman
for the F.B.I. in Dallas.

But by the spring of 2008, he caught the attention of the F.B.I. by posting
incendiary remarks about wanting to kill Americans on Jihadist Web sites. Over
the summer, he met with agents posing as members of Al Qaeda and planned to bomb
the Fountain Place office building in downtown Dallas, according to an
indictment unsealed on Thursday.

His arrest on terrorism charges came after he parked a truck that he had been
told was carrying explosives in the building's underground garage, according to
court documents.

When the F.B.I. later searched his residence, they found a Beretta 9 millimeter
pistol and a box of ammunition, along with his passport and the expired visa,
the court documents show.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hosam Maher Husein Smadi entered the United States legally, but
then overstayed his visa.
In Italy, Tex., Mr. Smadi was able to work at a restaurant, top, and rent an
apartment, even though his visa had expired. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COURTNEY
PERRY/DALLAS MORNING NEWS
 RON T. ENNIS/FORT WORTH STAR-TELEGRAM) (pg.A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigration Rally Draws Thousands

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands of immigrants came to Capitol Hill on Tuesday for a day of lobbying
and an afternoon rally calling for comprehensive immigration reform.

The event was timed to the unveiling of an immigration bill by Representative
Luis V. Gutierrez,  Democrat of Illinois and chairman of the Immigration Task
Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

With President Obama's stated commitment to immigration reform, advocates for
immigrants said they hoped to revive a debate that has been overshadowed by
other priorities, like the economy and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. As
deportations continue to rise, immigration reform is needed now, they said, to
allow illegal immigrants to obtain legal status and to stop families from being
torn apart.

''We need a bill that says if you come here to hurt our communities, we will not
support you; but if you are here to work hard and to make a better life for your
family, you will have the opportunity to earn your citizenship,'' Mr. Gutierrez
said in a prepared statement. ''We need a law that says it is un-American for a
mother to be torn from her child, and it is unacceptable to undermine our work
force by driving the most vulnerable among us further into the shadows.''

Immigration overhaul faces a difficult road. President George W. Bush twice
failed to get Congress to pass similar legislation. Mr.  Obama recently said his
administration would pursue reform this year but expected no action on
legislation before 2010.

Tuesday's event was sponsored by various immigrant advocacy groups, including
the Reform Immigration for America campaign, the National Capital Immigration
Coalition and Families United/Familias Unidas. It attracted convoys of buses,
vans and cars carrying more than 3,000 demonstrators from at least 17 states.

Immigrants, religious leaders, members of Congress and immigrant advocates
planned to gather on the West Lawn for speeches and a prayer vigil at 3 p.m.
Similar rallies were being held in at least 20 cities around the nation,
including Los Angeles, Milwaukee, Denver and Albany.

''I'm here representing the undocumented workers who cleaned ground zero and its
surrounding area after the 9/11 terrorist attacks,'' said Rubiela Arias, 43, an
illegal immigrant from Colombia who came to Washington with an immigrant
advocacy group called Make the Road New York.

Ms. Arias described how she came from Medellin to New York in 1998 with her
5-year-old son, seeking a safer place for her family.

''I worked for eight months cleaning the dust and debris surrounding the World
Trade Center,'' said Ms. Arias, who cleans offices in Manhattan and was dressed
in a light-blue T-shirt with a sticker reading, ''Reform Immigration for
America.'' ''There was no question about immigration status. We were all New
Yorkers; we were all Americans.''

In June, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, announced what he
called seven principles that would give form to his own reform proposal. Among
them were  the need to ''curtail future illegal immigration,'' to have
''operational control of our borders'' and a ''biometric-based employer
verification system.'' Mr. Schumer, who has been working with Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said he would introduce a bill by Labor
Day but missed that deadline.

Mr. Gutierrez's bill, which is likely to propose less restrictive terms than Mr.
Schumer's plan for allowing illegal immigrants to become citizens, is partly
meant to pressure his Congressional colleagues.

A main purpose of the rally was to highlight the way current immigration law
splits families.

''Families deserve better than this from our government,'' said Peter
Derezinski, a 17-year-old high school senior and a United States citizen whose
father was deported to Poland in April 2008 after 18 years as a truck driver and
an air-conditioning repairman in Chicago. ''We need to fix our broken
immigration system so our parents who have contributed to this nation's economy
in a positive way have a chance of reuniting with their children.''

Robin Ferschke, who was traveling from Maryville, Tenn., said she planned to
talk to lawmakers about changing the law so that her daughter-in-law and
grandson could live legally in the United States. Ms. Ferschke's son, Sgt.
Michael Ferschke, a 22-year-old Marine radio operator, was killed in Iraq in
2008, leaving his Japanese widow and their infant son in immigration limbo.

While Sergeant Ferschke was deployed to Iraq, he learned that his girlfriend was
pregnant. They decided to get married by proxy, a method that has a long history
in the military when the bride and groom cannot be in the same place for a
ceremony. The boy was born in Japan and holds dual citizenship.

But under a 1950s legal standard meant to curb marriage fraud, the wedding is
not recognized for immigration purposes even though the military recognizes the
union.

''The laws we have now are inhumane and need to be changed,'' Ms. Ferschke said.
''So I came to beg lawmakers to change that and not force my daughter-in-law and
my grandson to leave the country.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Threat to Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 180 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Wrong Paths to Immigration Reform'' (editorial, Oct. 12):

As you make clear, extremists like Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County,
Arizona, are just part of the problem; federal policies that empower these men
represent the underlying threat to immigrant communities.

In New York, the Secure Communities program is scheduled for ''deployment'' next
year. Though it targets violent criminals, the program has more often ensnared
immigrants arrested on minor charges.

Like 287(g), it undermines the community's trust in local law enforcement.

A report I released last month, with the East Harlem Against Deportation
coalition, urges the state's Division of Criminal Justice Services not to
consent to Secure Communities, at the very least without comprehensive review
and full public consultation.

New Yorkers, no matter their immigration status, deserve due diligence from
Albany, especially in the face of federal encroachment.

Jose M. Serrano

New York, Oct. 13, 2009

The writer is a New York State senator representing parts of Manhattan and the
Bronx.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Alters Disputed Program Letting Local Officers Enforce Immigration Law

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 862 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Addressing one of the most contentious immigration policies in recent years, the
Obama administration unveiled changes Friday in a program that allows state and
local police officers enforce federal immigration law.

As promised in July, the Department of Homeland Security said it had revamped
the program to focus on rooting out illegal immigrants who have committed
serious crimes. The changes also require law enforcement officers enrolled in
the program to abide by federal anti-discrimination law. In addition, federal
officials pledged to supervise the program more closely, flag problems and field
complaints from the public.

Civil libertarians and immigration advocacy groups had complained that
participating police agencies had unduly made targets of immigrants who commit
relatively minor offenses, like traffic violators. There have also been
widespread accusations that police officers have engaged in racial profiling.
Much of the criticism has been focused here in metropolitan Phoenix, where the
Maricopa County sheriff has made a national name for himself with his
immigration crackdown.

Some critics, including most recently several Latino members of Congress, had
urged the Obama administration to drop the program because of the problems, and
those opponents were little mollified by the revisions announced Friday.

But Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials, suggesting that the changes
would address the troubles, said they intended to expand the program, known as
287(g) for the section of the 1996 law that authorized it.

Officials said ICE had renewed agreements with 55 state and local law
enforcement agencies. An additional 12, officials said, have reached tentative
agreements that, if confirmed by their local governing bodies, will increase
participation in the program to 67 agencies, from the current 66. ICE also
remains in negotiations with six other agencies, including one of the largest,
the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

Six previously participating agencies, however, have withdrawn, including the
Houston Police Department. Houston officials said they were wary of police
officers' acting as immigration agents and planned to enroll soon in a separate
federal program that would allow all jail inmates, not just those suspected of
being in the country illegally, to be screened for federal offenses, including
immigration violations.

Nowhere has the 287(g) program been more controversial than in Maricopa County,
where Sheriff Joe Arpaio, whose department has the largest number of personnel
trained in the program, faces a Justice Department investigation over complaints
of civil rights violations. Lawsuits accuse deputies of singling out Latinos for
stops that include a check of their immigration status.

ICE announced Friday that it had withdrawn its authorization for the sheriff's
street enforcement of immigration law, in which 100 federally trained deputies
had been engaged. But, to the ire of immigrant advocates, the federal agency
will continue to allow 60 deputies to screen jail inmates, who have accounted
for a vast majority of the immigration arrests.

Mr. Arpaio has denounced federal officials for the changes and conducted a crime
sweep Friday in Surprise, a Phoenix suburb, as a retort, saying he could pursue
illegal immigrants under state laws that bar activity like human smuggling.

''The sheriff is prone to rhetoric on occasion, and some of that is about ICE,''
said John T. Morton, the agency's director. ''But I call things on the merits.''

The new agreements are the latest evolution of the program, which got under way
in 1996 but did not begin to grow in earnest until after the Sept. 11 attacks.
The immigration agency is requesting $68.1 million to run the program in the
fiscal year that began Oct. 1.

More than 133,000  illegal immigrants have been arrested through the program
since January 2006, though ICE officials said they could not readily provide
information on how many had been deported.

While opponents denounce the program as ineffective and prone to abuse, its
defenders say there is no reason why illegal immigrants who have committed a
crime, even if not of the most serious nature, should be allowed to remain in
the United States.

''Claims that the program was supposed to focus only on serious crimes are
false,'' said a joint statement by Representatives Trent Franks, a Republican
whose district includes Maricopa County, and Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who
was an author of the 287(g) legislation. ''In fact, the program was created to
let state and local law enforcement officials help enforce all immigration laws,
not a select few.''

The debate continued to boil here on Friday, when protesters marched on Mr.
Arpaio's downtown office, as they regularly do, around the time his crime sweep
got under way 20 miles away in Surprise.

Later, at an outdoor news conference in Surprise, Mr. Arpaio said eight people
suspected of being illegal immigrants had been arrested under a state statute
that forbids human smuggling.

''We will continue to do what we have been doing,'' he said, fighting to speak
over the din of shouting protesters.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2009 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Endorse Asylum For Abuse

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 991 words


In an unusually protracted and closely watched case, the Obama administration
has recommended political asylum for a Guatemalan woman fleeing horrific abuse
by her husband, the strongest signal yet that the administration is open to a
variety of asylum claims from foreign women facing domestic abuse.

The government's assent, lawyers said, virtually ensures that the woman, Rody
Alvarado Pena, will be allowed to remain in the United States after battling in
immigration court since 1995.

Immigration lawyers said the administration had taken a major step toward
clarifying a murky area of asylum law and defining the legal grounds on which
battered and sexually abused women in foreign countries could seek protection
here.

After 14 years of legal indecision, during which several immigration courts and
three attorneys general considered Ms. Alvarado's case, the Department of
Homeland Security cleared the way for her in a one-paragraph document filed late
Wednesday in immigration court in San Francisco. Ms. Alvarado, the department
found, ''is eligible for asylum and merits a grant of asylum as a matter of
discretion.''

An immigration judge's order granting the asylum is still required, but Ms.
Alvarado's lawyer, Karen Musalo, said that since the government had raised no
new opposition, it was highly likely that the judge would approve her claim.

Ms. Musalo, director of the Center for Gender and Refugee Studies at Hastings
College of the Law at the University of California, said Ms. Alvarado's ''has
been the iconic case of domestic abuse as a basis for asylum.''

Jayne Fleming, a lawyer specializing in asylum at the San Francisco office of
the law firm Reed Smith, called the recommendation ''a giant step forward.''
Advocates and immigration judges, Ms Fleming said, ''now have some pretty solid
guidelines from D.H.S.''

In a phone interview Thursday, Ms. Alvarado, who has not been detained and lives
in California, where she is a housekeeper at a home for elderly nuns, said she
was pleased but also a little dazed and disbelieving.

''I thank God it came out well,'' she said, speaking in Spanish. ''But it wasn't
easy to wait this long for immigration to make a decision.''

She said she hoped the outcome in her case would mean that other abused women
would receive quicker decisions from the courts.

Homeland Security Department officials were cautious in assessing the
implications of the administration's recommendation. The department ''continues
to view domestic violence as a possible basis for asylum,'' a department
spokesman, Matthew Chandler, said. But such cases, Mr. Chandler said, continue
to depend on the specific  abuse. The department is writing regulations to
govern  claims based on domestic violence, he said.

After enduring a decade of violence by her husband, Francisco Osorio, a former
soldier in Guatemala, Ms. Alvarado came to the United States in 1995. Over the
years, immigration judges have not questioned the credibility of her story.
According to court documents, she married when she was 16, and became pregnant
soon afterward. In a beating that he apparently hoped would induce an abortion,
Mr. Osorio dislocated her jaw and kicked her repeatedly. He also
''pistol-whipped Ms. Alvarado, broke windows and mirrors with her head, punched
and slapped her, threatened her with his machete and dragged her down the street
by her hair,'' a court filing states.

In 1996, an immigration judge in San Francisco granted Ms. Alvarado's asylum
petition, but an immigration appeals court overturned that decision in 1999. In
2001, Attorney General  Janet Reno threw out the appeals court decision, but did
not grant Ms. Alvarado asylum. (Because the immigration courts are part of the
executive branch, not the judiciary, the attorney general is the highest legal
authority.)

In 2004, the Department of Homeland Security, which represents the government in
immigration cases, argued for the first time in favor of asylum for Ms.
Alvarado. Attorney General John Ashcroft ordered a new review but did not reach
a decision. In September 2008, Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey sent the case
back to the immigration appeals court, encouraging the court to issue a
precedent-setting ruling. Such a ruling can come only from an immigration
appeals court or a federal court.

The large legal question in the case is whether women who suffer domestic abuse
are part of a ''particular social group'' that has faced persecution, one
criteria for asylum claims. In a separate asylum case in April, the Department
of Homeland Security pointed to some specific ways that battered women could
meet this standard.

In a recent filing, Ms. Alvarado's lawyers argued that her circumstances met the
requirements that the department had outlined in April. Now the department has
agreed, in practice making the case a model for other asylum claims.

In a declaration filed recently to bolster Ms. Alvarado's argument that she was
part of a persecuted group in Guatemala, an expert witness, Claudia Paz y Paz
Bailey, reported that more than 4,000 women had been killed in domestic violence
there in the last decade. These killings, only 2 percent of which have been
solved, were so frequent that they earned their own legal term, ''femicide,''
said Ms. Paz y Paz Bailey, a Guatemalan lawyer. In 2004 Guatemala enacted a law
establishing special sanctions for the crime.

''Many times,'' she said, violence against Guatemalan women ''is not even
identified as violence, is not perceived as strange or unusual.''

The resolution of her case is coming too late for Ms. Alvarado to be able to
raise her two children, whom she has not seen since she left them in Guatemala.
The children, now 22 and 17, were raised by their paternal grandparents, whom
they call Mama and Papa.

''It has been tremendously painful for me to know that they do not see me as
their mother,'' Ms. Alvarado said in court papers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Friday about the Obama administration's recommendation
of asylum for a Guatemalan woman who suffered domestic violence described
incorrectly a statistic cited by an expert witness who testified for the woman.
The witness said that more than 4,000 women were killed violently in Guatemala
in the last decade, not that more than 4,000 women were killed in ''domestic
violence'' cases. The article also misstated the year that Guatemala adopted a
law providing special sanctions for such crimes. It was passed in 2008, not
2004.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Asylum was recommended for Rody Alvarado Pena, shown at a
lawyer's offices in San Francisco.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)(A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Identifying Criminals

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 245 words


To the Editor:

The Oct. 12 editorial ''Wrong Paths to Immigration Reform'' and an Oct. 16
letter may have left readers with misconceptions about the Secure Communities
initiative.

The initiative's goal is to identify foreign nationals among all people who have
been arrested and booked for a crime, and to remove the most dangerous among
them. It doesn't give any authority to local law enforcement officials to
enforce federal immigration laws.

Also, it doesn't racially profile. A person must be booked for a crime before
his or her fingerprints are submitted to the Department of Homeland Security for
an immigration status check. And, at the time of booking, everyone's
fingerprints are checked, not just those who the local police may believe are
foreign nationals. Also, identification relies on biometrics -- fingerprints --
to accurately identify the person arrested.

Since initiating the effort last year, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has
identified hundreds of foreign nationals who have committed horrible crimes,
many under assumed names. Using biometrics, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
has identified gang members, felons with histories of violent acts and others
who have been convicted of crimes.

I believe that Secure Communities is an immigration enforcement effort that
nearly everyone can agree with.

Marc Rapp    Acting Executive Director   Secure Communities, Immigration    and
Customs Enforcement   Washington, Oct.   23, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Promise To Speed Naturalization Applications

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 137 words


Immigration authorities have agreed to complete 90 percent of naturalization
applications from immigrants in Southern California within six months, in a
lawsuit settlement that was approved by a federal judge in Santa Ana. The suit
was filed in 2007 by the National Immigration Law Center and the American Civil
Liberties Union, on behalf of immigrants seeking to become citizens whose
applications had stalled for years because of delays with background checks. As
a result of the suit, the court required the F.B.I. and Citizenship and
Immigration Services to report regularly on their progress in reducing backlogs
nationwide. Linton Joaquin, general counsel for the law center, said the
agencies had significantly reduced the backlogs, with about 400 cases remaining
in the Los Angeles area covered by the settlement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 25, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Officials Often Detain Foreign-Born Rikers Inmates for Deportation

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 871 words


In a city with a ''don't ask, don't tell'' approach to immigration status, it
may come as a surprise to many that the New York Department of Correction
routinely gives a list of foreign-born inmates at Rikers Island to immigration
authorities, who use it to question, detain and try to deport thousands of them.

At least 13,000 Rikers inmates have been placed in deportation proceedings since
2004 through this practice, a coalition of immigrant advocacy groups has learned
from data obtained in a Freedom of Information Act request. The groups, and
their lawyers at the Immigrant Justice Clinic of Cardozo School of Law, will
discuss the findings and start a protest campaign Tuesday morning at Judson
Memorial Church in Lower Manhattan.

''This is a huge program with enormous consequences for New Yorkers,'' said
Nancy Morawetz, a professor at New York University School of Law, who helped one
of the groups file for the information from Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
''The experience in New York is a warning about what we can expect nationally as
ICE expands its jail-based programs around the country.''

According to information released in response to the request, agents from the
federal immigration enforcement agency, typically in plain clothes and under no
requirement to provide interpreters, question about 4,000 inmates a year about
their immigration status, out of about 105,000 people jailed annually at Rikers.
Immigration authorities put a hold, or ''detainer,'' on roughly 3,200.

Then, instead of being released when they finish their terms -- or even if
criminal charges against them are dismissed -- these inmates are sent to
immigration detention centers, often in Texas or Louisiana, far from legal
services and relatives, Professor Morawetz said.

The advocacy groups, which include the New Sanctuary Coalition of New York City,
Make the Road New York and the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant
Rights, contend that this process is ''leaving the deportees' families abandoned
in New York and dependent on our city's strained social service system.'' The
groups plan to ask the City Council to refuse federal agents access to pretrial
detainees.

Gilliam Brigham, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, defended the program.

''By processing these criminal aliens for removal before they are released to
the general public, ICE is enhancing public safety,'' she said.

The Rikers effort, she added, is ''one element of ICE's comprehensive strategy
to build cooperative relationships with local law enforcement agencies.''

Stephen J. Morello, a spokesman for the Department of Correction, said the
department provides federal immigration officers, who have free office space at
Rikers, a list of newly admitted foreign-born inmates. But the information --
including country of birth, if a detainee supplies it -- is publicly available
on the department's Web site, he said, and if federal agents decide they want to
visit a foreign-born detainee, the department cooperates.

After hearing advocates' concerns that inmates were being inadequately notified
of the nature of the visits and their right to decline them or to have legal
representation, the department agreed in June to refine the current notification
form, provide it in several languages and train correction officers about the
issue, Mr. Morello added.

''The department does not provide ICE information about the inmate's immigration
status, since under the mayor's executive order, city agencies are prohibited
from asking about immigration status,'' he said. ''We do not do ICE's job. We
are not an extension of ICE.''

Peter L. Markowitz, director of the Immigrant Justice Center at Cardozo, praised
the department for ''moving in the right direction.'' But he said immigration
agents have sometimes used ''coercive and deceitful tactics'' in questioning
foreign-born pretrial detainees, effectively denying them their constitutional
rights to be presumed innocent, to remain silent and to be represented by a
lawyer. These tactics affect foreign-born United States citizens as well as
unauthorized immigrants and legal residents subject to deportation, he said.

The Rikers program was a precursor to a larger federal effort to identify and
deport illegal immigrants held in local jails. That effort, known as Secure
Communities, was begun under President George W. Bush and is being vastly
expanded by the Obama administration, which hopes to establish a more
computerized program nationwide by late 2012, when it is projected to cost about
$1 billion a year.

Now operating in about 70 counties,  it allows local officials to check
fingerprints taken at jails  with federal immigration authorities.

''All these systems are designed to sweep in people and then sort it out while
they're in detention in Texas without access to lawyers,'' Professor Morawetz
said. One result, she added, has been the mistaken deportation of United States
citizens and another has been the deaths in detention of longtime New Yorkers
with little or no criminal record.

''The statistics show that these are not isolated cases,'' she said, ''but
rather a result of a systematic program that threatens all foreign nationals.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Missouri: 12 Are Accused of Human Trafficking

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 158 words


Twelve people, eight  from Uzbekistan, are accused in a federal indictment of
luring illegal immigrants to the United States to work as ''modern-day slaves''
in 14 states. Prosecutors announced that a federal grand jury in Kansas City
issued a 45-count indictment on May 6 that included charges of labor
racketeering, forced labor trafficking and immigration violations. Matt
Whitworth, acting United States attorney for the Western District of Missouri,
said the defendants used false information to obtain fake work visas for the
foreign workers, who were then threatened with deportation while living in
substandard apartments and working for inadequate pay. Eight of the 12
defendants were arrested Tuesday, when the indictment was unsealed. The scheme
ensnared hundreds of illegal immigrants who worked at hotels and construction
sites, and in other businesses, many in the Kansas City area and in the resort
town of Branson, Mr. Whitworth said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farms and Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 347 words


The immigration system, broken in a thousand places, needs a multitude of fixes,
from the borders to the workplace to the status of would-be Americans waiting in
limbo overseas and toiling in shadows here. A new bill called AgJobs, introduced
in the House and Senate, addresses some of those problems. It seeks to relieve
chronic farm labor shortages while protecting rights and opportunities for
immigrant workers.

The legislation, which has bipartisan support, is the result of years of
negotiations between growers and workers' advocates. Growers and workers are
tied together, but their interests are highly prone to collision, as anyone who
remembers the California farmworker strikes of the 1970s knows.

Because it's hard to find Americans willing to endure the heat, cold and misery
of stooping in the fields -- or the low wages -- growers overwhelmingly use
undocumented workers. An estimated 75 percent or more of the agricultural work
force is here illegally. This is bad for everybody. Undocumented workers are
easy prey for exploitation and unable to assert their rights. Growers constantly
complain about labor shortages and are vulnerable to disruptive immigration
raids.

The bill helps to bolster labor rights, while also making it easier for growers
to hire more temporary immigrant workers --  after advertising and recruiting
for Americans. Most critical, it includes a path to legal status and eventual
citizenship for undocumented workers if they have clean records and pay fines
and back taxes.

In a climate of seemingly permanent stalemate and rancor over immigration, a
bill that has the support of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association and the
advocacy group Farmworker Justice obviously has something going for it.

It's a model compromise, mixing pro-business pragmatism with a commitment to
protecting workers -- future Americans -- who do some of the country's most
vital yet difficult jobs. Whether AgJobs is enacted on its own or, more likely,
folded into a larger immigration bill, it deserves a place at the table of
comprehensive reform.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Work Under Way On 'Virtual Fence'

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After three years of delays and false starts, construction began this week on a
''virtual fence'' aimed at stopping illegal immigration and smuggling along the
border with Mexico.

The first phase of the $6.7 billion project -- a network of towers rigged with
cameras, sensors and communications equipment -- will cover about 23 miles south
of Tucson, in the busiest area for illegal crossing.

Within five years, officials said Friday, the fence is expected to extend along
the entire 2,000-mile border except for some 200 miles in the area of Big Bend
National Park in Texas, a stretch that is to be addressed later.

Planning for the virtual fence began in 2003 as part of the  Secure Border
Initiative, which also included the deployment of thousands of new border agents
and the construction of hundreds of miles of physical walls.

The technology piece of the plan, however, was bogged down by Congressional
inquiries into hundreds of millions of dollars in spending on the development of
a prototype and conflicts over environmental assessments.

Mark Borkowski, the Customs and Border Protection official heading the  project,
said the problems had now been resolved sufficiently to begin building a  block
of the fence that could be in operation by year's end.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Data Say Migration to U.S. Has Plummeted

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

DATELINE: MEXICALI, Mexico


Census data from the Mexican government indicate an extraordinary decline in the
number of Mexican immigrants going to the United States.

The recently released data show that about 226,000 fewer people emigrated from
Mexico to other countries during the year that ended in August 2008 than during
the previous year, a decline of 25 percent. All but a very small fraction of
emigration, both legal and illegal, from Mexico is to the United States.

Because of surging immigration, the Mexican-born population in the United States
has grown steeply year after year since the early 1990s, dipping briefly only
after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, census data in both countries show.

Mexican and American researchers say that the current decline, which has also
been manifested in a decrease in arrests along the border, is largely a result
of Mexicans' deciding to delay illegal crossings because of the lack of jobs in
the ailing American economy.

The trend emerged clearly with the onset of the recession and, demographers say,
provides new evidence that illegal immigrants from Mexico, by far the biggest
source of unauthorized migration to the United States, are drawn by jobs and
respond to a sinking labor market by staying away.

''If jobs are available, people come,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, senior
demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in
Washington. ''If jobs are not available, people don't come.''

The net outflow of migrants from Mexico -- those who left minus those who
returned -- fell by about half in the year that ended in August 2008 from the
preceding year. The figures are based on detailed household interviews conducted
quarterly by the census agency in Mexico, the National Institute of Statistics
and Geography.

Along the border, the signs of the drop-off are subtle but ubiquitous. Only two
beds are filled in a shelter here that houses migrants hoping to sneak into the
United States. On the American side, near Calexico, Calif., Border Patrol vans
return empty to their base after agents comb the desert for illegal crossers.

In recent weeks, the spread of swine flu in Mexico and the government's response
of shutting down schools and canceling public gatherings brought migration here
and elsewhere nearly to a halt. But demographers expect the deep flu-related
decline to be temporary.

With so many Mexicans remaining in their home villages, the population of
illegal immigrants in the United States stopped growing and might have slightly
decreased in the last year, an abrupt shift after a decade of yearly influxes,
research by demographers in the United States shows. Mexicans account for 32
percent of immigrants in the United States, and more than half of them lack
legal status, the Pew center has reported.

Still, at least 11 million illegal immigrants remain in the United States, the
demographers say. Despite collapsing job markets in construction and other
low-wage work, there has been no exodus among Mexicans living in the United
States, the Mexican census figures show. About the same number of migrants --
450,000 -- returned to Mexico in 2008 as in 2007.

Some researchers argue that the drop in crossings from Mexico proves that tough
law enforcement at the border and in American workplaces can reduce illegal
immigration in times of rising unemployment in the United States. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement officials stepped up factory and community raids last
year, and the Border Patrol expanded its force by 17 percent in one year, to
nearly 17,500 agents.

''The latest evidence suggests that you can reverse the flow,'' said Steven A.
Camarota, a demographer at the Center for Immigration Studies, a research group
in Washington that calls for reduced immigration. ''It is not set in stone, so
with some mix of enforcement and the economy, fewer will come and more will go
home.''

But Wayne Cornelius, the director of the Center for Comparative Immigration
Studies at the University of California, San Diego, predicted that if the United
States job market revived, border enforcement would become much less of a
deterrent.

The center has documented the causes of the decrease in Mexican migration though
interviews this year with more than 1,000 Mexicans in California and in a
Yucatan village that has been a source of migrants. In the interviews, all of
the Mexicans who did set out from Yucatan for the United States reported that
they eventually succeeded in crossing.

Mexicans are ''not forgoing migration forever,'' Professor Cornelius said.
''They are hoping that the economy in the United States will improve.''

For now, though, Mexicans like Jose Luis Z., 16, of the state of Michoacan, are
setting the trend. Jose Luis went to the Albergue del Desierto, a migrant
shelter in Mexicali for minor boys, after setting out from home without telling
his parents.

But when a job planting trees in Washington State fell through and he heard from
migrants of increased patrolling along the border, he decided to head back home.

''I thought it would be easy, but now I see how people suffer,'' said Jose Luis,
who asked that his last name be withheld because he was a minor. He said he
would go back to picking strawberries in Michoacan, if his furious father did
not banish him.

''There is work back home,'' Jose Luis said, ''but it doesn't pay anything.''

The enforcement buildup along the border, which started during the Bush
administration, has made many Mexicans think twice about the cost and danger of
an illegal trek when no job awaits on the other side, scholars said.

''There is a lack of certainty about jobs, so for the time being it is better to
stay home,'' said Agustin Escobar Latapi, a sociologist at the Center for
Research in Social Anthropology in Guadalajara, Mexico.

Most immigrants now need smugglers to guide them through searing deserts and
hidden mountain passes where there are gaps in Border Patrol surveillance. In
Mexicali, smugglers' fees are now $3,000 to $5,000 for a trip to Los Angeles,
immigrants and social workers said. They reported that Mexicans' relatives in
the United States, struggling to hold on to their own jobs, no longer had money
to lend to a family member to pay a smuggler.

Some here in Mexicali said they were not surprised by the low number of Mexicans
coming back from the United States. ''Our people are not stupid,'' said Monika
Oropeza Rodriguez, the executive director of the Albergue del Desierto. ''There
may be a crisis in the United States, but they know that we have been in an
economic crisis in Mexico for many years.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many would-be Mexican emigrants have apparently decided to delay
illegal crossings because of the lack of jobs in the United States in the
recession. The border is shown near Campo, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A4) CHART: A Drop in Emigration (Sources: Mexico's
National Statistics, Geography and Information Institute
 Jeffrey S. Passel, Pew Hispanic Center)(A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: 73 Illegal Immigrants Are Found In Truck

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 79 words


The Border Patrol said a truck driver had been arrested at a checkpoint in
California after 73 illegal immigrants from Mexico were found in the back of his
rig. The agency said the 50-year-old driver from Mexico, arrested Sunday, was in
custody awaiting prosecution for alien smuggling. A Border Patrol agent said
that most of the 53 men and 20 women were being returned to Mexico and that an
immigrant from Guatemala would be charged with illegal re-entry of a criminal
alien.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 19, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Patrol Arrests of Illegal Immigrants Drop

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
18

LENGTH: 88 words


Arrests of illegal immigrants by the Border Patrol declined in 2008 to 724,000,
the lowest number in 35 years, the Department of Homeland Security reported.
Apprehensions by the agency fell from a peak of 1.6 million in 2000, declining
by 39 percent in the last three years. Border Patrol arrests are regarded by
researchers as a broad-brush indicator of the flow of illegal immigrants. The
department's  report attributed the decline to high unemployment in the United
States and increased border enforcement, among other factors.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Arrests After Standoff Over Immigrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 50 words


Armed men who allegedly held 12 suspected illegal immigrants in a Brownsville
house for several days while trying to get money from their relatives were
arrested after a standoff with the police. Ten men from Mexico and two women
from El Salvador were turned over to Border Patrol agents for processing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 3, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Strategy On Illicit Work By Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words


Immigration authorities had bad news this week for American Apparel, the T-shirt
maker based in downtown Los Angeles: About 1,800 of its employees appeared to be
illegal immigrants not authorized to work in the United States.

But in contrast to the high-profile raids that marked the enforcement approach
of the Bush administration, no federal agents with criminal warrants stormed the
company's factories and rounded up employees. Instead, the federal immigration
agency sent American Apparel a written notice that it faced civil fines and
would have to fire any workers confirmed to be unauthorized.

The treatment of American Apparel, which has more than 5,600 factory employees
in Los Angeles alone, is the most prominent demonstration of a new strategy by
the Obama administration to curb the employment of illegal immigrants by
focusing on employers who hire them -- and doing so in a less confrontational
manner than in years past.

Unlike the approach of the Bush administration, which brought criminal charges
in its final two years against many illegal immigrant workers, the new effort
makes broader use of fines and other civil sanctions, federal officials said
Thursday.

Federal agents will concentrate on businesses employing large numbers of workers
suspected of being illegal immigrants, the officials said, and will reserve
tough criminal charges mostly for employers who serially hire illegal immigrants
and engage in wage and labor violations.

''These actions underscore our commitment to targeting employers that cultivate
illegal work forces by knowingly hiring and exploiting illegal workers,'' said
Matt Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security.

On Wednesday, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency known as
ICE, said it had sent notices announcing audits of hiring records, like the one
it conducted at American Apparel, to 652 other companies across the country.
Officials said they were picking up the pace of such audits, after performing
503 of them in 2008.

The names of other companies that received  notices have not been made public.
American Apparel became a window into the new enforcement tactics because, as a
publicly traded company, it issued a required notice on Wednesday about the
hiring audit.

The Obama administration's new approach, unveiled in April, seems to be moving
away from the raids that advocates for immigrants said had split families,
disrupted businesses and traumatized communities. But the outcome will still be
difficult for illegal workers, who will lose their jobs and could face
deportation, the advocates said.

Immigration officials have not made clear how they intend to deal with workers
who are unable to prove their legal immigration status in the course of
inspections, but they said there was no moratorium on deportations.

Executives at American Apparel were both relieved and dismayed after receiving
the warning from the immigration agency of discrepancies in the hiring documents
of about one-third of its Los Angeles work force. The company has 30 days to
dispute the agency's claims and give immigrant employees time to prove that they
are authorized to work in the United States, immigration officials said. If they
cannot, the company must fire them, probably within two months.

But no criminal charges were lodged against the company and no workers have been
arrested, American Apparel executives and immigration officials said.

The fines followed discussions over 18 months between federal officials and
American Apparel, after immigration agents first inspected the company's files
in January 2008, said Peter Schey, an immigration lawyer representing the
company. Mr. Schey said a raid had been averted because the company cooperated
with the audit and because immigration agents had not found any labor abuses.

''There is no evidence of any exploitation of workers or violation of labor
laws,'' he said. ''And there is not a single allegation that the company
knowingly hired an undocumented worker.''

American Apparel and its outspoken chief executive, Dov Charney, have waged a
campaign, emblazoned on T-shirts sold across the country, criticizing the
immigration crackdown of recent years and calling on Congress to ''Legalize
L.A.'' by granting legal status to illegal immigrants.

Most garment workers in American Apparel's huge shop in Los Angeles work
directly for the company, not for subcontractors, its records show. They earn at
least $10 to $12 an hour, well above minimum wage, and receive health benefits.

At a news conference last year, Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles
publicly lauded Mr. Charney for helping the city with its faltering economy by
providing ''the dream of a steady paycheck and good benefits for countless
workers.''

While it has been no secret that American Apparel's largely Latino work force
probably included many illegal immigrants, Mr. Schey said the company had been
careful to meet legal hiring requirements. Many illegal immigrants use
convincingly forged Social Security cards or other fake documents when seeking
work.

In a statement, Mr. Charney said that many of his workers cited by the
immigration agency were ''responsible, hard-working employees'' who had been
with the company for more than a decade. Mr. Charney, an immigrant from Canada,
said he hoped they would be able to prove their legal status. But because of the
recession, the company said, it will  not be hurt financially if it has to
replace them.

Mr. Schey said the hiring audit at American Apparel had been ''professionally
done.'' By contrast, Mr. Schey has brought more than 100 damage claims against
the immigration agency on behalf of American citizens who said they were
illegally arrested last year in Los Angeles in an immigration raid at a
different company, Micro Solutions Enterprises.

Immigration officials, who asked not to be identified because the case is
continuing, said the fines to American Apparel so far were about $150,000.

Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, said it had taken
steps to limit negotiations with employers that in the past had resulted in
steep reductions in fines the employers ultimately paid.

Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a California Republican who heads an
immigration caucus in the House, said the amount of the fines was crucial.

''If this is a truly conscientious effort to get tough with employers to say the
days are over of profiteering with illegal immigrants, that's fine,'' said Mr.
Bilbray, who opposes any effort to give legal status to illegal immigrants.
''But if the fine will be so low that it's just part of doing business, there's
no deterrent.''

Angelica Salas, the executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant
Rights of Los Angeles, an advocacy group, said she welcomed the end to
''showboat enforcement raids.'' But in the end, Ms. Salas said, ''there is still
enforcement of laws that are broken,'' adding, ''The workers will still lose
their jobs.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In addition to provocative advertising campaigns for its
products, American Apparel has sought to call attention to its push to broaden
immigrant rights.
American Apparel has made immigrant labor a hallmark of its social message,
which includes extending legal status.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS)
 The company's chief executive, Dov Charney, himself an immigrant, has waged a
campaign against immigration crackdowns.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO
ANZUONI/REUTERS)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Professor Fights Illegal Immigration One Court at a Time

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1306 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


On a recent morning, Kris W. Kobach, a conservative law professor, rushed late
into a federal courtroom here with his suit slightly rumpled and little more
than a laptop under his arm. His mission was to persuade the judge to uphold an
ordinance adopted by a Dallas suburb that would bar landlords from renting
housing to illegal immigrants.

A team of lawyers from a Latino advocacy group had set up early at the opposing
table, fortified with legal assistants and stacks of case documents. Unfazed,
Mr. Kobach unleashed a cascade of constitutional arguments. Case names and
precedents spilled out so rapidly that the judge had to order Mr. Kobach several
times to slow down.

Mr. Kobach is on a dogged campaign to fight illegal immigration at the local
level, riding an insurgency by cities and states fed up with what they see as
federal failures on immigration. As these local governments have taken on
enforcement roles once reserved for the federal government, he is emerging as
their leading legal advocate.

The Dallas hearing -- the judge has yet to rule -- was one match in an
immigration contest playing out in courts in Arizona, California, Missouri and
Pennsylvania, among other states, with civil liberties and Hispanic groups on
one side and, increasingly, Mr. Kobach on the other.

A professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City law school and a
Republican politician, Mr. Kobach developed his immigration views while working
in the Justice Department at the time of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
The cases he has championed -- like housing restrictions on illegal immigrants
in Farmers Branch, Tex., and sanctions for employers in Valley Park, Mo., who
hire such immigrants -- are fiercely fought, with Mr. Kobach's opponents
accusing him of fostering discrimination against Hispanics and dividing
immigrant communities.

But Mr. Kobach's allies say he has borrowed a page from the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund and other pro-immigrant groups he confronts
before the bench, by re-thinking the conservative tenet that the courts should
not be a forum for policy change.

And with the Obama administration indicating that it will put off an overhaul of
immigration until late this year or beyond, the courtroom campaign for tougher
rules is likely to expand as cities and states remain the main battleground for
shaping immigration policy.

''To rigidly separate local government from federal government when we think
about immigration enforcement is not only legally incorrect, it's also bad
policy,'' Mr. Kobach said in an interview.

Lawyers who have confronted Mr. Kobach in court say the cases he pursues would
cover the country in a patchwork of local immigration rules that are contrary to
federal law and costly to defend.

''These laws divide communities, stereotype Latinos, burden businesses and
trigger needless and expensive litigation,'' said Lucas Guttentag, the director
of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union.

Mr. Kobach rejects any accusation that his strategies unfairly single out
Latinos.

''The driving principle is to restore the rule of law,'' he said. ''You have
members of Congress throwing up their hands and saying the system is broken. I
really think that's a cop-out. Different parts of the system are working fine.
The question is, How do you actually enforce the law in a vast nation that has
very different circumstances in different states?''

So far, his results are mixed. He lost an early round in a case defending
Hazleton, Pa., which passed an ordinance that sought to punish employers who
give illegal immigrants jobs as well as landlords who rent to them. In a suit
led by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education  Fund, the Federal District
Court in Scranton, Pa., struck down the ordinance, and the city is awaiting a
decision from the court of appeals.

But when Mr. Kobach defended a similar ordinance in Valley Park, Mo., on the
outskirts of St. Louis, a Federal District Court upheld it, after major
revisions. It survived an appeal last month.

Mr. Kobach lost a suit against Kansas to block a statute allowing illegal
immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates in public colleges. But he won a
similar case in California; it is now before that state's highest court. And he
helped Arizona defend a statute that cancels the business licenses of employers
who repeatedly hire illegal immigrants; it was upheld by the federal courts.

Lou Barletta, the mayor of Hazleton,  praised Mr. Kobach for empowering local
governments by helping his city craft ''a masterful ordinance that at the end of
the day will have a great effect on this country of eliminating illegal
immigrants.''

The recently elected mayor of Valley Park,  Grant Young, was more guarded,
noting that the town of 6,500 had paid some $270,000 in legal fees.

''Like most Americans, I do not support illegal immigration,'' said Mr. Young,
who has not met Mr. Kobach. ''But as a fiscal conservative, I'm going to
scrutinize any bill of that size.''

A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Harvard with a doctorate from Oxford University,
Mr. Kobach, 43, earned his law degree from Yale. He is ''by no means reactionary
or hidebound or anti-immigrant,'' said Peter Schuck, a professor of immigration
law at Yale who taught Mr. Kobach. ''He simply strikes a different balance
between national security and undocumented immigrant rights than immigrant
advocates do.''

Mr. Kobach joined the Justice Department barely a week before the Sept. 11
attacks. As officials scrambled for information about the hijackers, Mr. Kobach
said, he was stunned to realize that several had been in the United States
illegally and had recently been stopped by traffic police, who had no
information about their immigration status.

''That impressed on me in a very salient way that there was a huge missed
opportunity there that might have caused the 9/11 plot to unravel,'' he said.

He started thinking of ways to turn the local police into the ''eyes and ears,''
he said, of federal immigration agents.

While at the department, Mr. Kobach also was the prime mover of a program that
required temporary immigrants from 25 Muslim countries to register frequently
with federal authorities. The program led to the deportation of more than 13,000
immigration violators. But some Muslim leaders said it traumatized their
communities.

Mr. Kobach also worked with Attorney General John Ashcroft to streamline the
immigration appeals court, reducing the number of judges and making it easier
for them to dismiss an appeal. Immigration appeals did become speedier, but the
changes clogged the federal appeals courts with cases from immigrants claiming
they had not been fairly heard.

After leaving the department in 2003, Mr. Kobach ran unsuccessfully for Congress
in Kansas in 2004. He served as head of the Kansas Republican Party, and
recently announced a run for secretary of state there.

Some of his adversaries have emphasized his ties to the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, or FAIR, which calls for reducing immigration to the United
States. The group helped mobilize voters to defeat a bill in Congress in 2007 to
give legal status to illegal immigrants. Mr. Kobach is partially paid by the
Immigration Reform Law Institute, a nonprofit group described by its general
counsel, Michael Hethmon, as the legal arm of FAIR.

The Southern Poverty Law Center, a group in Alabama that favors legalization
measures, has named FAIR a hate group, claiming a history of ''associating with
white nationalists'' by its founder, John Tanton. The center has produced no
evidence of bigotry by Mr. Kobach.

Mr. Kobach calls the center's assertions slander. ''I would immediately
disassociate myself from any litigation that was racist in nature,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kris W. Kobach, outside the federal courthouse in Dallas
earlier this month. Mr. Kobach, a lawyer, represents local governments that pass
ordinances to discourage illegal immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLISON SMITH FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mayor Lou Barletta of Hazleton, Pa., where lawmakers enacted an ordinance to
punish employers who hire illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In Scranton, Pa., a rally during a trial involving an ordinance barring
landlords from renting to illegal immigrants. The measure was voided.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM MADDEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Debate Intensifies as a Federal Deportation Program Is Set to Expand

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1158 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


The Obama administration is vastly expanding a federal effort begun under
President George W. Bush to identify and deport illegal immigrants held in local
jails. But here in the city where the effort got a trial start eight months ago,
people on each side of the immigration debate have found fault with it.

Under the effort, known as Secure Communities, local officials  check every set
of fingerprints taken at jails against those of people who have had a brush with
federal immigration authorities; in the past, they could check only for a
criminal history in the F.B.I.  database. If a person turns out to be an illegal
immigrant, the case is turned over to Immigration and Customs Enforcement for
possible deportation proceedings in addition to the criminal charges.

The Obama administration considers the trial program successful enough to pledge
$195 million over the next year to expand the effort with an eye toward
establishing it nationwide by late 2012, when it is projected to cost about $1
billion a year. It is now under way in 70 counties across the country, including
those containing the cities of San Diego, Phoenix, Dallas, Miami and Durham,
N.C.

''Before we had no idea who was deportable,'' said Sheriff's Deputy Gwen Carroll
of Harris County, where Houston is located.

But the trial program's experience here has raised difficult questions about its
goals, critics say, and serves as a stern reminder of the political and
practical challenges facing the larger rollout.

Federal officials say that while they are pleased with their new ability to
identify illegal immigrants, they do not have enough agents to deport all of
those identified. Over all, only a third of those identified in the first seven
months of the program as foreign nationals -- which includes people with visas
and temporary residence cards as well as illegal immigrants -- have been
deported.

''We do have a limited amount of resources,'' said David J. Venturella, the
director of the federal program. ''It's our priority to focus on the more
serious offenders.''

Proponents of stricter enforcement of immigration laws complain that by
concentrating on people who pass through the jails, the government is letting
too many other illegal immigrants off the hook. On the other side, advocacy
groups for immigrants complain that the program has created a climate of fear
and paranoia among  Hispanics, hampering the police.

Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who favors stricter immigration
enforcement, has said the  focus on criminal offenders ''will create a de facto
amnesty'' for the millions of illegal immigrants who do not have criminal
records.

''We can prevent many of these crimes by deporting illegal immigrants before
they have committed them, instead of waiting until after the fact,'' he said,
echoing the views of many hard-liners.

But Maria Jimenez, a longtime advocate for immigrants in Houston, said the
Secure Communities program, along with a second federal program that allows
certain local law enforcement officials to act as federal immigration agents,
has done just what Mr. Smith and other conservatives want. ''In casting the net
so broadly,'' she said, ''it will be a de facto immigration enforcement program
by local police.''

While federal officials say the purpose of the effort is to identify serious and
violent criminals, immigrant advocates complain that the great majority of
people deported so far under the trial program here were arrested for
misdemeanor and nonviolent crimes.

In the first six months of the trial program in Harris County, the automatic
fingerprint checks led to the deportation of 94 people accused of the highest
level of felonies and 1,624 people accused of misdemeanors and various property
crimes, federal officials said. In all, there were 5,300 matches with the
immigration database.

''People are getting deported for even minor offenses like not having an ID or a
driver's license,'' said Cesar Espinosa of America for All, a group that helps
immigrants in Houston.

But what constitutes a minor offense is a matter of debate.

Sheriff Adrian Garcia of Harris County says he regards most of the people tagged
for deportation as criminals, including those arrested for drunken driving and
drug possession. Fewer than one in 10 have been charged with traffic offenses
and other ''Class C'' misdemeanors under state law, Sheriff Garcia noted.

''We are taking people off the streets of Houston, off the streets of Harris
County, who have indicated they are not interested in following the rules around
here,'' he said.

Support for deporting immigrants with criminal records grew in Houston after a
city police officer, Rodney Johnson, was  killed in 2006 by a felon who had been
deported but returned. Last March, that sentiment reached a peak when a second
officer, Rick Salter, was critically injured by an illegal immigrant with a
criminal record.

On a recent morning, one young man who was arrested on charges of failing to
provide information to the police slouched on a  bench in the Harris County
jail, while on the other side of a grate, Sheriff's Deputy Sammie Rinehart
scanned his immigration record.

A year ago, Deputy Rinehart said, it would have been nearly impossible to find
out if he was in the country illegally because he had given officers a phony
name. But after his fingerprints were taken using a computerized scanner and run
through the government's immigration database, they told a different story. He
was really Carlos Bringas Nimrod, 22, of Mexico.

''I find about 10 to 12 names he's used,'' Deputy Rinehart said. ''He's got
immigration charges -- illegal entry. Most of his crimes have always been
illegal entry.''

Mr. Bringas Nimrod was one of about 10 illegal immigrants the local police had
locked up on misdemeanor charges that afternoon. One was Celio Velasquez, a
23-year-old construction worker from Honduras, who was accused of drunken
driving and running over a volunteer firefighter with a car, making it necessary
to amputate his  legs.

Another was Jaime Lopez, a 48-year-old Mexican citizen with a bloody bandage
over one eye. He had been arrested on aggravated assault charges for the second
time.

Jay K. Aiyer, a Houston immigration lawyer, said few people here disagree that
dangerous criminals should be deported. But Mr. Aiyer said he had handled
several cases in the last eight months in which illegal immigrants faced
deportation proceedings after the state had dropped criminal charges.

But John T. Morton, the assistant secretary of homeland security in charge of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, does not see the roundup of relatively
harmless immigrants as a flaw.

''We are interested in identifying and removing all offenders if we can,'' Mr.
Morton said in an interview. ''But we have limited resources, and in a world of
limited resources we are focusing on violent serious offenders first.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Harris County jail in Houston, every set of fingerprints
is checked against an immigration database, and illegal immigrants are referred
to federal authorities for possible deportation.
 Celio Velasquez, center, was accused of drunken driving and running over a
volunteer firefighter. The fingerprint check identified him as an illegal
immigrant.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charges Against Immigrants Sent Home

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A review of the illegal immigrants selected for deportation in jails in Harris
County, Tex., shows that the biggest categories of offenses were drunken driving
and drug possession, mostly misdemeanors.

From January to May, about 670 deportees were arrested in each of those
categories.

In addition, about 446 of the illegal immigrants identified for deportation were
arrested on charges of simple assault, 90 on charges of aggravated assault and
30 on charges of aggravated robbery. Thirteen were arrested on charges of sexual
assault on a child. Seven were arrested on murder charges, including one man who
was wanted for a killing in Mexico.

An additional 150 were held in connection with traffic violations, including a
score of people accused of driving without a license. The police arrested 101
people accused of running from them, 55 accused of failing to give an officer
information, and 81 who allegedly did not have any identification.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jury Rules for Hospital That Deported Patient

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG; Rod Proctor contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 957 words


In a benchmark case dealing with the obligations of hospitals toward uninsured
illegal immigrants, a jury in Stuart, Fla., decided Monday that Martin Memorial
Medical Center did not act unreasonably when it chartered a plane and
repatriated a severely brain-injured Guatemalan patient against the will of his
guardian.

Judge James W. Midelis instructed the jury in state court late last week that
because of a Florida appeals court decision, it was already ''a matter of law''
that the patient, Luis Alberto Jimenez, had been unlawfully detained and
deprived of his liberty.

Still, the jury found that Martin Memorial had not committed false imprisonment
and was not liable for damages.

In a statement, the hospital, which provided Mr. Jimenez life-saving care and
kept him as a ward for several years before undertaking his repatriation in
2003, applauded the jury's decision.

At the same time, the hospital's president and chief executive, Mark E.
Robitaille, chastised ''our political leadership'' for failing to address the
challenges facing hospitals that provide uncompensated health care to illegal
immigrants.

''Unfortunately none of the proposed national health care reform bills currently
being debated in Washington address the issue,'' Mr. Robitaille said. ''That
means there are still cases like Luis Jimenez's in hospitals across the country
and there will continue to be cases like Luis Jimenez's.''

The case of Mr. Jimenez, which was featured in an in-depth report in The New
York Times last summer, is believed to be the first to test the legality of
patient repatriations and to judge the liability of the hospitals that undertake
them. Such repatriations are a relatively rare but widespread practice,
especially in cases involving catastrophic injuries or serious illnesses, where
patients need continuing care that is not covered by Medicaid because of their
immigration status.

Mr. Jimenez's case has been closely watched by health care providers and
fiercely debated in the blogosphere. In cyberspace and in Stuart, a relatively
sleepy town north of Palm Beach where supporters of the hospital packed the
small gallery of the courtroom during the three-week trial, the case has
elicited considerable anti-immigrant sentiment.

But the courtroom on Monday morning was quiet and empty of spectators when the
verdict was unexpectedly announced. The sole observable reaction came from
William B. King, one of Mr. Jimenez's guardian's lawyers, who repeatedly shook
his head.

''I'm stunned,'' Mr. King said.

The jurors, all of whom were white, with no Hispanics among them, declined to
discuss the verdict; one said, ''It was a very tough decision.''

Mr. Jimenez's cousin and legal guardian, Montejo Gaspar, filed the lawsuit
seeking nearly $1 million to cover the costs of providing care for Mr. Jimenez
in Guatemala and seeking damages for what he essentially saw as the hospital's
kidnapping and deportation of his profoundly disabled cousin.

Reached by telephone on Monday, Mr. Gaspar, who works in golf course maintenance
in South Florida, said he was saddened by the outcome.

''I don't know why that jury didn't recognize the injustice of what was done,''
he said in Spanish. ''And I don't know what to do next for Luis. He really needs
help.''

A Mayan Indian from the highlands of Guatemala, Mr. Jimenez paid a smuggler to
transport him to the United States about a decade ago so he could work as a
gardener and send money home to his wife and two sons. He had been living in
Stuart with Mr. Gaspar for just under a year when a drunken driver in a stolen
vehicle plowed into his car in the winter of 2000.

Now 37, Mr. Jimenez, who cannot walk and has the mental age of a child, lives in
a one-room house in a remote village, tended by his elderly mother. He is
largely confined to his bed and suffers from routine seizures. When The Times
visited him last summer, he had not received medical care for over five years.

In Florida, Martin Memorial, a nonprofit hospital, spent $1.5 million to care
for Mr. Jimenez. The costs especially mounted because of a conundrum faced by
the hospital. As a condition of receiving Medicaid and Medicare money, the
hospital was required to care for Mr. Jimenez until it could properly discharge
him under federal law.

That meant discharging Mr. Jimenez into a skilled nursing home, but the hospital
could not find one willing to accept an uninsured illegal immigrant. So it kept
Mr. Jimenez as a boarder until, in 2003, a state judge gave the hospital
permission to send him back to Guatemala.

As his cousin's lawyer sought to delay the move, the hospital leased a plane for
$30,000 and early one morning flew Mr. Jimenez to an orthopedic hospital in
Guatemala City. Arriving to visit him at the hospital in Florida, Mr. Gaspar
found his bed empty.

The next year, the state appeals court voided the judicial order that the
hospital had relied on to justify the repatriation. It was too late for Mr.
Jimenez, but Jack Hill, one of Mr. Gaspar's lawyers, said  the appeals court
decision had set ''a very good precedent that tells hospitals you can't send
foreign nationals back to their home countries against their will.''

It was not enough to convince the jury in Stuart, however.

In his instructions to the jury, Judge Midelis said the appeals court had
already established three of the four elements that support a claim of false
imprisonment: that Mr. Jimenez had been detained unlawfully, ''without legal
authority'' and against the will of his guardian. But the jury, in just over a
day of deliberations, concluded that the fourth element that the hospital's
actions were ''unreasonable and unwarranted under the circumstances'' had not
been proved.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The difficult journey of Luis Alberto Jimenez since he was
injured: with relatives at Martin Memorial Medical Center in 2002, in a
Guatemala City hospital after being deported in 2003, and last year at his home
in Jolomcu, high in the hills of Guatemala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID FRIEDMAN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES
RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 16, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Water in the Desert

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 344 words


A man who put out water jugs in a wildlife refuge in the Arizona desert for
illegal immigrants crossing from Mexico was convicted of littering and sentenced
last week to probation and 300 hours of picking up trash, after he refused to
pay a fine.

Walt Staton belonged to No More Deaths, an advocacy group that has been leaving
water for migrants for years. Officials at the Buenos Aires National Wildlife
Refuge southwest of Tucson say they allow other groups to maintain water tanks
at aid stations in the refuge, with official permits, but they say plastic
bottles endanger wildlife and worsen a serious litter problem. The advocates say
compassion needs no permits.

Mr. Staton, who has also been barred from returning to the refuge for a year,
might have done better to play by the rules, finding acceptable ways to leave
more water for more people -- maybe by securing water jugs to trees, so migrants
could refill their own bottles instead of tossing them away.

But we also know that common sense has a way of evaporating in the dangerously
surreal setting of the Arizona desert. Plastic litter is a threat to the
environment, but so is the strategically dubious border fence, which disrupts
migration and feeding for rare and endangered animals along hundreds of miles of
remote wilderness. We also know that criminal border violators -- gun runners
heading south, drug traffickers and human smugglers coming north -- are a far
more dire threat than littering humanitarians.

Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, gave a speech last week
reinforcing her hawkish commitment to border security even as President Obama
suggested that he would defer to next year the only real solution to the border
problem -- immigration reform that gives people an alternative. When the
government cracks down on illegal crossings while refusing to establish a safe,
sane alternative, funneling people into the remotest stretches of a burning
desert, it shares responsibility for the awful results. One of those results is
plastic bottles. Another is corpses.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants, Health Care and Lies

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 377 words


Illegal immigration is an all-purpose policy explosive. Toss it into any debate
and, boom, discussion stops because you've got people afraid that benefits or
services might be going to those who don't deserve them.

The bomb went off again on Wednesday night when President Obama told Congress
that his reforms would not apply to illegal immigrants. Representative Joe
Wilson of South Carolina then blurted his way into talk-radio immortality with
two words: ''You lie!''

Mr. Obama didn't lie. The bills before Congress declare illegal immigrants to be
ineligible for subsidized benefits. It is impossible to imagine any final bill
doing otherwise. Mr. Wilson was a boor, but some Republicans still insist that
he was right because the bill doesn't ensure that the undocumented have no
insurance.

Time for a reality check. Illegal immigrants are here. They are not eligible for
Medicaid, but many still get sick and many get care, often in emergency rooms.
The current proposals would likely not stop them from using their money to buy
coverage through an insurance exchange, without subsidies. Just as they can do
now.

Should we take a harder line? Force people to prove citizenship in emergency
rooms? That's illegal, for good reason. Make verification requirements so
onerous that not a single illegal immigrant slips through? Very expensive, and
not smart. It would be highly likely to snag deserving citizens --  like old
people who don't have their original birth certificates. And besides, we've
tried that: A House oversight committee reviewed six state Medicaid programs in
2007 and found that verification rules had cost the federal government an
additional $8.3 million. They caught exactly eight illegal immigrants.

In the case of an epidemic, like swine flu, should illegal immigrants go
untreated so they can infect legal residents and American citizens?

Hard-line Republicans insist that they will fight for citizenship verification.
They could, in theory, get the country to spend whatever it takes to do that and
proudly report back to their voters. But there is a line beyond which antipathy
to the undocumented can be damaging to those voters' health, not to mention the
federal budget. Mr. Wilson and his admirers seem to have crossed it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Illegal Immigrants Fare

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 272 words


The White House said Friday that it would bar illegal immigrants from buying
health coverage through a proposed insurance exchange, or marketplace, but that
hospitals would still be required to provide emergency treatment to illegal
immigrants at taxpayer expense.

The question of how illegal immigrants might fare under a health care overhaul
came into focus on Wednesday during President Obama's speech to Congress.
Representative Joe Wilson, Republican of South Carolina, shouted ''You lie!''
when Mr. Obama said his plan would not insure illegal immigrants.

The administration's position underscores the extraordinary sensitivity around
the immigrant issue, as lawmakers argue over whether the government should help
provide health coverage for all American citizens.

It could also draw a backlash from advocates for immigrants.

A White House spokesman, Reid Cherlin, said verification of legal immigration
status would be required to buy insurance through a new exchange. One means
might be the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements, or SAVE program,
which states already use to prevent ineligible immigrants from receiving
government aid.

Mr. Cherlin said illegal immigrants would be able to buy insurance in the
regular private market, as they can now, though he acknowledged that the private
market would shrink after an exchange was created.

Many illegal immigrants now seek treatment in emergency rooms, which by law
cannot turn them away, and the federal government reimburses hospitals $250
million a year for unpaid bills. The White House said those reimbursements would
continue. DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Crackdown Leads to 1,800 Pink Slips

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A clothing maker with a vast garment factory in downtown Los Angeles is firing
about 1,800 immigrant employees in the coming days -- more than a quarter  of
its work force -- after a federal investigation turned up irregularities in the
identity documents the workers presented when they were hired.

The firings at the company, American Apparel, have become a showcase for the
Obama administration's effort to reduce illegal immigration by forcing employers
to dismiss unauthorized workers rather than by using  workplace raids. The
firings, however, have divided opinion in California over the effects of the new
approach, especially at a time of high joblessness in the state and with a
major, well-regarded employer as a target.

Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, a Democrat, called the dismissals ''devastating,''
and his office has insisted that the federal government should focus on
employers that exploit their workers. American Apparel has been lauded by city
officials and business leaders for paying well above the garment industry
standard, offering health benefits and not long ago giving $18 million in stock
to its workers.

But opponents of illegal immigration, including Representative Brian P. Bilbray,
a Republican from San Diego who is chairman of a House caucus that opposes
efforts to extend legal status to illegal immigrants, back the enforcement
effort. They say American Apparel is typical of many companies that, in Mr.
Bilbray's words, have ''become addicted to illegal labor.''

''Of course it's a good idea,'' Mr. Bilbray said of the crackdown. ''They seem
to think that somehow the law doesn't matter, that crossing the line from legal
to illegal is not a big deal.''

In July, the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE,
opened audits of employment records similar to the one at American Apparel at
654 companies around the country. John T. Morton, who, as assistant secretary of
homeland security, runs ICE, said the audits covered all types of employers with
immigrant workers, including many like American Apparel that were not shadowy
sweatshops or serial violators of labor codes.

The investigation at American Apparel was started 17 months ago, under President
George W. Bush. Obama administration officials point out that they have not
followed the Bush pattern of concluding such investigations with a mass roundup
of workers. Those raids drew criticism for damaging businesses and dividing
immigrant families.

Immigration officials said they would now focus on employers, primarily wielding
the threat of civil complaints and fines, instead of raids and worker
deportation.

''Now all manner of companies face the very real possibility that the
government, using our basic civil powers, is going to come knocking on the
door,'' Mr. Morton said.

The goal, he said, is to create ''a truly national deterrent'' to hiring
unauthorized labor that would ''change the practices of American employers as a
class.''

The employees being fired from American Apparel could not resolve discrepancies
that investigators discovered  in  documents they had presented at hiring and in
federal Social Security or immigration records -- probably because the documents
were fake. Peter Schey, a lawyer for American Apparel, said that ICE had cited
deficiencies in the company's  record keeping, but that the authorities had not
accused it of knowingly hiring illegal workers. A fine threatened by the agency
was withdrawn, Mr. Schey said.

After months of discussions with ICE officials, the company moved on its own to
terminate the workers because, Mr. Schey said, federal guidelines for such cases
were ''in a shambles.'' The Bush administration proposed rules for employers to
follow when workers' documents did not match, but a federal court halted the
effort and the Obama administration decided to abandon it.

With its bright-pink, seven-story sewing plant in the center of Los Angeles,
American Apparel is one of the biggest manufacturing employers in the city, and
makes a selling point of the ''Made in U.S.A.'' labels in its racy T-shirts and
miniskirts. Dov Charney, the company's chief executive, has campaigned, in
T-shirt logos and eye-catching advertisements,  to ''legalize L.A.,'' by
granting legal status to illegal immigrants, a policy President Obama supports.

Since the audit began, Mr. Charney has treaded carefully, eager to show that his
publicly traded company is obeying the law, and to reassure investors that the
loss of so many workers will not damage the business, since  production has
slowed already with the recession.

But Mr. Charney is also questioning why federal authorities made a target of his
company. Over the summer he joined his workers in a street protest against the
firings. Because the immigration investigation is still under way, Mr. Charney
declined to be interviewed for this article but did respond in an e-mail
message.

The firings ''will not help the economy, will not make us safer,'' he said.

''No matter how we choose to define or label them,'' he said, illegal immigrants
''are hard-working, taxpaying workers.''

On a recent visit to American Apparel's factory floors here, amid the whirring
of sewing machines and the whooshing of cooling fans, a murmur of many languages
rose: mostly Spanish, but also Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese and Portuguese.
Masseurs were offering 20-minute massages for sewers in need of a break.

But there was also a mood of mourning, as work was interrupted with farewell
parties. The majority of workers losing their jobs are women, most of whom are
working to support families. Many departing workers have been with the company
for a decade or more.

Executives said many workers had learned skills specific to a proprietary
production system that allows American Apparel to make 250,000 garments a week
in Los Angeles, while keeping prices competitive with imports from places like
China.

Some workers who are leaving said the company had been a close-knit community
for them. Jesus, 30, originally from Puebla, Mexico, said he was hired 10 years
ago as a sewing machine operator, then worked and studied his way up to an
office job as coordinating manager.

''I learned how to think here,'' said Jesus, who would not reveal his last name
because of his illegal status.

The company provides health and life insurance, he said, and he  earns about
$900 a week, with taxes deducted from his paycheck.

Like many others, Jesus said his next move was to hunt for work in Los Angeles.
He will not return to Mexico, he said, because he is gay and fears
discrimination.

''There they treat you and judge you without even knowing you,'' Jesus said.

He said several job offers from mainstream garment makers in this country had
been withdrawn once he was asked for documents.

''Being realistic,'' he said, ''I guess I'm going to have to go to one of those
sweatshop companies where I'm going to get paid under the table.''

ICE has made no arrests so far at the factory. But Mr. Morton of ICE said the
agency would not rule out pursuing workers proven to be illegal immigrants.

Mr. Schey said company human resources managers had added new scrutiny to hiring
procedures. But workers facing dismissal pointed to the line of job applicants
outside the factory one recent day, who, like many of them, were almost all
Spanish-speaking immigrants.

''I think the Americans think that garment sewing is demeaning work,'' said
Francisco, 38, a Guatemalan with nine years at the plant who is being forced to
leave.

A top supervisor, he is training newemployees to replace him.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about the firings of 1,800 immigrant workers
by a Los Angeles garment maker, American Apparel, because of irregularities in
their identity documents misstated the number of garments the company produces
each week in Los Angeles. It is 800,000, not 250,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American Apparel is firing more than a quarter of the workers
at its factory in Los Angeles. (A1)
American Apparel could not resolve discrepancies that investigators discovered
in hiring documents. About 1,800 people are losing their jobs.
 Jesus, with his back to the camera, is a supervisor at American Apparel and is
being fired. He is in the United States illegally. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY  MONICA
ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Broken in U.S.A.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 381 words


An immigration crackdown by the Obama administration has led to the imminent
firing of about 1,800 workers at American Apparel, the trendy clothing company
whose downtown factory is one of the largest still left in Los Angeles.

This time the feds came with payroll audits rather than the guns and dogs of the
Bush years. The director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, John Morton,
called it a milestone in the fight against illegal immigration: ''Now all manner
of companies face the very real possibility that the government, using our basic
civil powers, is going to come knocking on the door.''

The government has to enforce the law. But one has to ask who benefits from a
crackdown like this.

Mr. Morton's own boss, the homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, used
to argue that crackdowns made no sense when workers had no shot at legalization.
''To look 'tough,' what little enforcement we have ends up being arbitrary and
unfair,'' she wrote in a 2007 op-ed article in The Washington Post when she was
still the governor of Arizona.

American Apparel wouldn't be our first target in the notoriously shady garment
industry. The government has not charged it with knowingly hiring or exploiting
illegal labor. By most accounts it has tried to maintain a legal work force
given how hard it is for employers to weed out applicants whose fake documents
look authentic.

Unlike companies that routinely seek out illegal immigrants (the better to
exploit them), American Apparel pays $10 to $12 an hour, well above the minimum
wage and industry standards, plus health benefits. It hires locally, cultivates
a trained work force and is seen as a valued corporate citizen in Los Angeles.
The city's mayor called the firings ''devastating.''

President Obama and Ms. Napolitano inherited a failed immigration policy. They
have promised do better in setting priorities, hunting down abusive employers
and pressing for comprehensive immigration reform that will give workers hope
and a path to legalization.

A crackdown that forces 1,800 taxpaying would-be Americans into joblessness in a
dismal economy is a law-enforcement victory only in the bitterest, narrowest
sense. As a solution to the problem of unauthorized workers -- 1,800 down,
millions to go -- it's ludicrous.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 4, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Firing of Immigrants at a Factory

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 622 words


To the Editor:

I was a fervent supporter of Barack Obama throughout his presidential campaign,
but I was concerned about his plans for the approximately 12 million
undocumented immigrants in this country. He said something about bringing them
out of the shadows by creating a path to citizenship, but gave no details.

Now I learn from your Sept. 30 front-page article ''Immigrant Crackdown Leads to
1,800 Pink Slips'' that the firings of 1,800 employees at the American Apparel
factory in Los Angeles ''have become a showcase for the Obama administration's
effort to reduce illegal immigration.''

The administration seems to have no concern for the hardships that will result
for the children and elderly relatives supported by the wages earned by these
hard-working, taxpaying immigrants, who, by the way, will be forced to return to
the shadows.

Joan Potter  Mount Kisco, N.Y., Sept.  30, 2009

To the Editor:

I am a manager of one of the busiest movie theaters in the Silicon Valley. When
I hear that there are some jobs that Americans won't do, I look at the former
engineers, machinists and other skilled workers whom I have cleaning up
auditoriums and restrooms, every one of them screened to make sure they are here
legally, and realize there is absolutely no truth to it.

While reading your article about the firing of illegal immigrants, I did not
feel that this was the loss of 1,800 jobs at American Apparel, but rather the
opening of 1,800 potential jobs for people who are here legally.

If we really need more immigrants working for us in our country, then we should
be working toward liberalizing immigration, not endorsing illegal immigration.

Edward K. Smallwood  San Jose, Calif., Sept. 30, 2009

To the Editor:

It is ironic that the same issue of The Times had two radically different
articles about immigration. One was about a museum that pays tribute to the
courage and spirit of Chinese immigrants of the late 19th and early 20th
centuries (''Immigration Stories, From Shadows to Spotlight''). These immigrants
overcame virulent racial prejudice in order to establish themselves as Americans
who, together with their descendants, have made great contributions to this
country's heritage.

The other article described 1,800 of today's foreign-born workers who have been
forced to leave their jobs with a leading American manufacturing company by
government policies designed to appeal to popular feeling against Hispanic and
Asian immigrants.

Like their Chinese predecessors, many of today's hardest-working and most
productive immigrants have been forced to improvise ways of getting around harsh
laws intended to slam the gates to America shut against them.

It is easy to condemn them as ''illegal.'' But in many ways they are the true
inheritors of the American dream.

Roger Algase  New York, Sept.   30, 2009

To the Editor:

The dismissals at American Apparel highlight the wrongheadedness of the fight
against illegal immigration. This is an employer who has chosen to manufacture
its goods in America, in an industry where manufacturing is usually done using
cheap labor in another country.

The message this action sends is that you are better off legally hiring a worker
in Mexico, for a fraction of the cost and with no benefit to the American
economy, than paying a work force, legal or not, a reasonable wage here. The
money that was paid to these workers was not only spent here but taxed here as
well.

Why is it all right to send billions of dollars to workers in other countries,
but it is not all right to sustain a very small percentage of necessary
employees in this country who may not be citizens but are a vital part of our
economy?

Michael Walker  Bellport, N.Y., Oct.  1, 2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Hard-Liner Has His Wings Clipped

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 827 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


The Maricopa County sheriff, who has drawn scorn and praise for a running
crackdown on illegal immigrants in this city's metropolitan area, said Tuesday
that federal officials had taken away his deputies' authority to make
immigration arrests in the field.

The sheriff, Joe Arpaio, whose high-profile sweeps have been cited in the
fevered debate over the need for an overhaul of immigration laws, said he had
sought a renewed agreement with the Department of Homeland Security to allow
both field arrests and immigration checks at his jails. But a high-level
department official presented a document a couple of weeks ago allowing only for
jail checks, Mr. Arpaio said.

That prompted an angry, rambling outburst from the sheriff Tuesday at a news
conference at which he called Homeland Security officials ''liars'' and vowed to
press on with his campaign, using state laws, against illegal immigrants. He
said he would drive those caught on the streets to the border if federal
officers refused to take them into custody.

Homeland Security officials declined to comment, saying they are still reviewing
their agreement with the sheriff's department and the other 65 agencies that
participate in a program that allows local and state officers to make
immigration arrests.

Immigrant advocates and some lawmakers have called on the department to end the
program, known as 287(g) after the section of the 1996 law that authorized it,
saying it has led to racial profiling and other abuses. Several advocates put
out statements Tuesday expressing dismay that the department was keeping any
relationship with Mr. Arpaio.

Last week,  the Congressional Hispanic Caucus wrote to President Obama, urging
him to ''immediately terminate'' the program because of the complaints.

A report this year by Congress' watchdog, the Government Accountability Office,
found that the program had not been closely supervised and that it had often led
to the arrest of minor offenders instead of the criminals it was intended to
pursue.

The Homeland Security Department has sought to mend it the program, not end it.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that runs it, this summer
announced an overhaul of the program and sought to reach new agreements with the
agencies involved. Two agencies in Massachusetts have since announced their
withdrawal from the program.

The Maricopa County Sheriff's Office, with some 160 federally trained deputies,
is the largest in the program and the most closely scrutinized by people on all
sides of the immigration debate.

Mr. Arpaio conceded that the vast majority of the 33,000 arrests of illegal
immigrants his office has made in the past two years under the agreement
followed a check on the immigration status of people in jails. About 300 have
been arrested in the field during ''crime suppression'' operations, he said. He
called those arrests symbolically important.

''It has to do with public perception,'' he said, noting reports that some
illegal immigrants are leaving the area in part because of his deputies. ''I
think the bad guys apparently are leaving because they know they are here
illegally. This is a crime deterrent program, too.''

In March, the Justice Department's civil rights division announced that it was
investigating the department, but Mr. Arpaio has conducted sweeps since then and
he predicted that he would be exonerated.

The Maricopa agreement was also being watched to see if Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, a Democrat and the former governor of Arizona, would
take the opportunity to rein in Mr. Arpaio, a Republican and one of the state's
most popular figures. Although they did not often clash publicly, their
political supporters often lashed out at one another.

By the account of Mr. Arpaio and his aides, he signed a copy of a new agreement
on Sept. 21, allowing for both field and jail arrests. But that evening, Alonzo
Pena, a top Immigration and Customs Enforcement official, called from Washington
and said he would be arriving in Phoenix the next day to discuss it.

After he arrived, Mr. Pena presented Mr. Arpaio another agreement that allowed
only for jail checks.

Mr. Arpaio signed it, but it still must be approved by the county's governing
board.  The board has been sympathetic to Mr. Arpaio on immigration matters, but
he suggested the vote was far from a done deal.

Either way, he and his supporters vowed to press on.

Andrew Thomas, the county attorney, appeared with Mr. Arpaio to voice his
support and condemn the ''setback in the fight against illegal immigration.''
Mr. Thomas said, ''The fight goes on.''

He and Mr. Arpaio suggested that deputies could use the state anti-human
smuggling law to make stops and refer suspected illegal immigrants to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, though it was not clear whether the agency
would take them.

If not, the sheriff said, ''I'll take a little trip to the border and turn them
over to the border.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheriff Joe Arpaio, right, at a news conference in Arizona on
Tuesday with Andrew Thomas, the Maricopa county attorney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA
LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

San Francisco to Delay Reports on Charges Against Immigrants

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The San Francisco board of supervisors voted Tuesday to overturn a city policy
that has been at the center of a national debate over offering illegal
immigrants sanctuary.

The policy, ordered by Mayor Gavin Newsom last summer, requires the police to
contact Immigration and Customs Enforcement whenever they arrest a juvenile on
felony charges who they suspect is in the United States illegally. Since the
policy took effect last summer, more than 100 undocumented minors have been
turned over to federal immigration authorities.

Mr. Newsom has said the ordinance is necessary to prevent young criminals from
using the city's so-called sanctuary policy, which prevents the use of city
money for immigration enforcement.

''Sanctuary city was never designed to protect people who commit crimes,'' said
Nathan Ballard, a spokesman for Mr. Newsom.

But under the changes approved Tuesday, referrals would be required only after
juveniles were convicted of crimes, instead of after their arrest. Immigration
advocates say that referrals upon arrest have resulted in the deportation of
innocent youths, the breakup of families and a fear among immigrants of
contacting the police when they are the victims of crime.

''We recognize that there's a need to do some reporting'' of illegal juveniles,
said David Campos, the supervisor who sponsored the new ordinance. ''But we're
trying to strike a balance.''

Tuesday's meeting was filled to capacity, with hundreds of supporters of Mr.
Campos's bill filling the board's chambers and two overflow rooms. Simultaneous
translation of supervisors' comments were offered in Mandarin and Spanish, and
when the bill was passed, by 8 to 2 with one absentee, cheers erupted in the
chambers, with chants of ''Yes We Can'' in English and Spanish echoing through
the ornate City Hall.

Supporters continued chanting as they filed out past a bust of Harvey Milk, the
trailblazing San Francisco supervisor and gay rights advocate whose name was
invoked by supporters of Mr. Campos's bill.

The vote was a sharp rebuke to Mr. Newsom, a Democrat who is running for
governor and who has promised to veto it, though supporters seem to have enough
votes to overturn that.

San Francisco adopted its sanctuary policy in 1989, and has long refused to
refer minors in police custody to the federal authorities, although adults
accused of felonies have always been referred. Some of these minors were later
flown to their home countries at taxpayer expense rather than being turned over
to immigration authorities. Mr. Newsom learned of those flights last May and
ordered them stopped.

Mr. Newsom's policy was also a response to a series of embarrassing revelations
in The San Francisco Chronicle, including that the city, rather than turning a
group of young Honduran crack dealers over to ICE, sent them to a group home in
Southern California, from which they walked away.

The city was also shocked by a June 2008 triple murder, which prosecutors say
was committed by Edwin Ramos, a suspected gang member and an illegal immigrant
from El Salvador who had been picked up as a juvenile by the San Francisco
police but not referred to immigration authorities.

The fate of the sanctuary policy may well be decided in court.

An August memorandum from the office of the city attorney, Dennis Herrera, to
Mr. Newsom said that while federal and state law concerning sanctuary cities was
''not settled,'' the ordinance that passed Tuesday could also ''adversely
affect'' the city's position in several pending cases concerning its sanctuary
policy, including a criminal investigation by the United States attorney's
office in San Francisco.

Mr. Ballard, Mr. Newsom's spokesman, echoed this, saying the supervisors' vote,
which will be formalized at a final reading of the bill next week, could invite
a federal legal challenge to the entire sanctuary city policy.

''The supervisors did a foolish thing today by passing this bill that moves one
step closer to imperiling the entire sanctuary city ordinance,'' Mr. Ballard
said.

But Mr. Campos, the supervisor and a naturalized citizen who emigrated --
illegally -- from his native Guatemala when he was 14, said the vote to change
Mr. Newsom's policy was necessary to maintain the city's reputation as a safe
haven for illegal residents.

''We went from being one of the most enlightened cities,'' Mr. Campos said, ''to
be a place many steps backward to where the rest of the country is.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 14-year-old, left, meeting a lawyer in early April. He was
arrested for taking a BB gun to school and reported to immigration.(PHOTOGRAPH
BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
David Campos, left, on the city Board of Supervisors, supported changing a
policy Mayor Gavin Newsom ordered last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SFBOS.ORG)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congress Quarrels On Covering Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1117 words


The debate over health care for illegal immigrants continues to percolate in
Congress despite the Obama administration's efforts to put it to rest, with
lawmakers in both houses also wrangling over how much coverage to provide for
immigrants who have settled in the country legally.

Some Republicans favor excluding immigrants who have been legal permanent
residents for less than five years, as well as all illegal immigrants. Democrats
broadly agree that illegal immigrants should be excluded, but many want all
legal permanent residents to be able to participate in proposed health insurance
exchanges and receive subsidized coverage if they qualify.

Latino leaders, worried that Congress might quietly cut back benefits for legal
immigrants, have started an 11th-hour campaign to eliminate waiting periods for
them in the proposed legislation and to cancel the existing five-year wait for
Medicare and Medicaid programs.

Under some plans being considered by Congress, more than one million legal
permanent residents and about seven million illegal immigrants who currently
have no health insurance would be excluded from coverage, according to a study
by the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.

Any proposal under discussion would leave California with the largest population
of uninsured residents, as many as 1.4 million legal and illegal immigrants,
according to a  study by the Center for Health Policy Research at the University
of California, Los Angeles. California's health system has been crippled by the
soaring costs of caring for 6.8 million residents with no insurance, a figure
that includes about 4 million American citizens.

Large numbers of immigrants in Florida, New York and Texas would also remain
without coverage under the proposals.

While generally ceding the fight to gain coverage for illegal immigrants, groups
like the American Hospital Association, the United States Conference of Mayors,
and the Catholic Health Association, among others, have urged Congress to
eliminate any waiting periods for legal residents in future programs and for
Medicare and Medicaid. Such exclusions, they say, tend to defeat the cost-saving
purposes of universal coverage.

''You can either keep those immigrants healthy now, or exclude them and wait
until they get really sick, then pay for it down the line,'' said Prof. Steven
P. Wallace, associate director of the U.C.L.A. research center. ''If you don't
pay now, you're going to pay for them later.''

Republicans argue that maximizing restrictions on legal and illegal immigrants
will save money and prevent health care benefits from becoming a magnet that
draws new migrants to the United States. The five-year wait for Medicare and
Medicaid was first imposed on legal permanent residents as part of the federal
welfare overhaul in 1996.

Under all plans under consideration, immigrants who are excluded from new
programs, including illegal immigrants, would still be required to buy health
insurance.

In September, Representative Joe Wilson, Republican of South Carolina, caused a
furor during a joint session of Congress when he accused President Obama of
lying about whether Democratic health proposals would cover illegal immigrants.
Since then, battles over health care for immigrants have been waged less openly,
in closed-door negotiations and dueling amendments in committee. With Democratic
leaders in the House and Senate pushing to move bills to the floor in coming
days, lawmakers from both parties are working to line up immigration amendments
for full debate.

There is broad agreement in Washington on barring illegal immigrants from
taxpayer-financed coverage. White House officials have also said that illegal
immigrants should be excluded from buying coverage through insurance exchanges
that are proposed to increase competition.

Instead, the debate has been over measures to verify applicants' citizenship
status. Both the Senate and House bills now call for relatively simple proof of
identity, like a driver's license or Social Security card, lawmakers said.

Representative Nathan Deal of Georgia, the senior Republican on the House Energy
and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said he would try to offer an amendment to
require a second document to verify immigration or citizenship status. Mr. Deal
accused the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, of leaving loopholes that
would allow ''illegal aliens to slip in through the cracks.''

Democrats say  similar verification procedures, which have been required since
2005 for Medicaid, have proven costly for states and have detected few
unauthorized immigrants using public programs.

Lawmakers are also discussing whether illegal immigrants should be included in
income calculations for ''mixed status'' families, those that include illegal
and legal immigrants and perhaps American citizens. Senator Robert Menendez,
Democrat of New Jersey, is leading an effort to ensure that illegal immigrants
are counted, even though they will not be eligible for coverage. If they are not
counted, Mr. Menendez argues, the family's income could appear higher than the
cut-off level for subsidies.

Latino advocates said legal immigrants pay full taxes, have undergone intense
scrutiny to obtain their immigration status and tend to use public health
services less than Americans.

''They don't want to get on government benefits because they don't trust the
government and they don't want to do anything to damage their chances to become
citizens,'' said Sonal Ambegaokar, health policy analyst at the National
Immigration Law Center, an immigrant advocate group in California.

Public health researchers in California said they were dismayed at the large
numbers of immigrants, primarily illegal, who would remain uninsured even if the
health care legislation passed, arguing they would perpetuate costly
inefficiencies in the system.

''They may have conditions that don't get identified and infectious diseases
that could be prevented that put the public at risk, and they may need to use
higher cost hospital services when other services become inaccessible,'' said
Dr. Michael A. Rodriguez, a professor in the U.C.L.A Department of Family
Medicine.

Democratic lawmakers said the number of immigrants ineligible for coverage could
be greatly reduced next year if Congress took up legislation to grant legal
status to illegal immigrants, as the president has promised.

''We are not trying to expand health care coverage to illegal immigrants through
this legislation,'' said Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico. ''That
will have to be dealt with through comprehensive immigration reform.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: A POPULATION AT RISK: How immigrants are covered under health
care reform legislation will particularly effect those states with the largest
uninsured immigrant populations. In California, for example, immigrants
represent about 40 percent of the uninsured population under age 65. (Source:
Migration Policy Institute) (pg.A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 1, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massachusetts Cuts Back Immigrants' Health Care

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


State-subsidized health insurance for 31,000 legal immigrants here will no
longer cover dental, hospice or skilled-nursing care under a scaled-back plan
that Gov. Deval Patrick announced Monday.

Mr. Patrick said his administration had struggled to find a solution ''that
preserves the promise of health care reform'' after the state legislature cut
most of the $130 million it had previously allotted immigrants, to help close a
budget deficit. Although their health benefits will be sharply curtailed in some
cases, Mr. Patrick portrayed the new program as a victory, saying the services
that the affected group tends to use the most will still be covered.

''It's an extraordinary accomplishment,'' he said in a conference call with
reporters, ''to offer virtually full coverage for the entire population that's
been impacted in the face of really extraordinary budget constraints.''

The new plan, which will cover permanent residents who have had green cards for
less than five years, will cost the state $40 million a year. Some of the
affected immigrants will be charged higher co-payments and will have to find new
doctors, said Leslie A. Kirwan, Mr. Patrick's finance director.

Still, Mr. Patrick described the new coverage as comprehensive and said it could
be a model for less expensive state-subsidized benefits as health care costs
continue to rise. Under the 1996 federal law that overhauled the nation's
welfare system, the 31,000 affected immigrants do not qualify for Medicaid or
other federal aid. Massachusetts is one of the few states -- others are
California, New York and Pennsylvania -- that provide at least some health
coverage for such immigrants.

Because of its three-year-old law requiring universal health coverage,
Massachusetts has the country's lowest percentage of uninsured residents: 2.6
percent, compared with a national average of 15 percent. The law requires that
almost every resident have insurance, and to meet that goal, the state
subsidizes coverage for those earning up to three times the federal poverty
level, or $66,150 for a family of four.

All of the affected immigrants will be covered under the new plan by Dec. 1, Mr.
Patrick said; in the meantime they will have to rely on hospitals that provide
free emergency care to the poor.

CeltiCare Health Plan of Massachusetts, a subsidiary of the Centene Corporation,
based in Missouri, won a yearlong state contract to provide the new coverage.

Eva Millona, executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition, said she was worried about immigrants' having to find new
primary care doctors at a time when the state is suffering from a shortage of
such providers. She also said that the new coverage would in some cases require
a much higher co-payment -- $50 instead of between $1 and $3 -- for non-generic
prescription drugs, and that enrollment would  be capped at the 31,000 current
enrollees.

''We see this as a temporary solution,'' Ms. Millona said, ''and we are still
working to get full restoration for this population that deserves the same level
of coverage as all other taxpaying residents of the state.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Deval Patrick said 31,000 legal immigrants would no longer
be covered for dental, hospice or skilled-nursing care. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH
REYNOLDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Payments For Injuries To Workers Here Illegally

BYLINE: By SIMON AKAM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 540 words


Three illegal immigrants injured in construction accidents in New York were
awarded settlements totaling $3.85 million in the past two weeks, lawyers said
on Wednesday.

Lawyers representing the three men said that the settlements demonstrated that
illegal workers should not be afraid to sue their employers if they are hurt on
the job.

''Each of these men was injured in the course of their work on construction
sites, and their immigration status was irrelevant to their right to seek
redress for those injuries,'' said Brian O'Dwyer, a partner in the Manhattan law
firm of O'Dwyer & Bernstien, L.L.P., which worked on the cases.

The largest award went to a 33-year-old Mexican plumber who was injured by an
exploding pipe at 44 Wall Street in Manhattan in December 2004. The man, who
was scalded over large portions of his body, settled his damage claim for $2.5
million. The defendants in the case were 44 Wall Owner L.L.C. and Swig Equities,
L.L.C.

A spokesman for 44 Wall Owner L.L.C. had no direct comment on the settlement and
said that the company had hired a contractor for the job in question and that
the injured man worked for the contractor.

Like the other two men who received compensation, the plumber did not want his
name published  for fear of endangering his family in Mexico.

The second largest settlement went to a 52-year-old Mexican who was injured when
a steel beam fell on his foot at 130 Fulton Street in Manhattan on Jan. 30,
2004. The man, a union member,, settled with F.J. Sciame Construction Company
and Beway Realty Corporation for $750,000. F.J. Sciame Construction Company did
not return calls for comment.

The third worker who received compensation was a 36-year-old Ecuadorean, who was
injured while working on a roofing job at the Arverne by the Sea residential
development in Queens. He sustained a fractured hip and other injuries when
three tresses, each weighing 200 pounds, collapsed on him on Aug. 14, 2007.

''I was very afraid for my children, because I did not know what was going to
happen,'' he said on Wednesday.

Ultimately he settled his case for $600,000. The defendants were Rockaway Beach
Boulevard Construction Company, New Visions Construction Corporation, Benjamin
Beechwood Breakers L.L.C. and Benjamin Beechwood Ocean Way L.L.C.

Gerry Romski, a lawyer for Beechwood, said in response to the settlement: ''It's
a personal injury matter that was defended by our insurance carrier. The
organization always strives to comply with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations.'' According to Mr. O'Dwyer, the right of illegal immigrants in New
York to compensation for workplace accidents was affirmed by Balbuena v. I.D.R.
Realty L.L.C., a case decided in the New York State Court of Appeals in 2006.
The court ruled that laborers who were illegal immigrants had the same rights as
other workers.

Speaking on Wednesday, Joel Magallan, the executive director of the Latino
advocacy organization Asociacion Tepeyac, said that undocumented laborers should
stand up to abusive employment practices. ''We have a lot of employers who are
intimidating the workers,'' he said. ''They usually tell them they could be
deported to their home countries if they are claiming any case.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 2, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Border Patrol Agent Shoots Man

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 124 words


A Border Patrol agent shot a man he suspected of being an illegal immigrant
during an altercation in a South Texas convenience store. The agent, who was not
identified, chased the man into a Kwik Pantry convenience store in Kingsville
after he and other people ran from a vehicle the Border Patrol was pursuing
around 8 a.m., said an agency spokesman, John Lopez. Inside the store, the man
fought the agent's efforts to detain him and wrested away the agent's
collapsible baton. At that point, the agent, ''fearing for his life,'' shot the
man, Mr. Lopez said. The man, who was shot in the abdomen, Mr. Lopez said, was
flown to a hospital in Corpus Christi. The man was out of surgery and recovering
in the intensive care unit, Mr. Lopez said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bill Clinton to Discuss Release Of Journalists in North Korea

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and PETER BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Former President Bill Clinton went to North Korea on Monday to negotiate the
release of two American television journalists who were sentenced to 12 years of
hard labor for illegally entering North Korean territory, a person who was
briefed on the mission said.

Mr. Clinton landed in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, early Tuesday morning
local time, Central TV, a North Korean station, reported. The White House
declined to comment.

The journalists, Laura Ling, 32, and Euna Lee, 36, were detained by soldiers on
March 17 near the North Korean border with China. In June, they were sentenced
to 12 years in a North Korean prison camp for ''committing hostilities against
the Korean nation and illegal entry.''

The Obama administration had been considering for weeks whether to send a
special envoy to North Korea.

The choice of Mr. Clinton would mark his first public mission on behalf of the
administration. His wife, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, has been
deeply involved in the journalists' case.

The jailing of Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee came amid a period of heightened tension
between North Korea and the United States after Pyongyang tested a nuclear
device in May and then launched a number of ballistic missiles.

The White House marshaled support at the United Nations for strict sanctions
against the North Korean government, including a halt to all weapons sales and a
crackdown on its financial ties.

But the administration has tried to keep its diplomatic campaign separate from
this case, which American officials have portrayed as a humanitarian issue,
appealing to North Korea to return the women to their families.

''Their detainment is not something that we've linked to other issues, and we
hope the North Koreans don't do that, either,''' the White House press
secretary, Robert Gibbs, said to reporters in June.

At the time they were detained, Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee were on a reporting
assignment from Current TV, a San Francisco-based media company co-founded by Al
Gore, the former vice president.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Survey Shows Pull of the U.S. Is Still Strong Inside Mexico

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 399 words


In spite of high unemployment in the United States and strict border
enforcement, one-third of Mexicans say they would move to this country if they
could, and more than half of those would move even if they did not have legal
immigration documents, according to a survey published Wednesday by the Pew
Research Center.

The United States still exerts a powerful attraction for Mexicans, the survey
found, with 57 percent saying that those who leave home to settle here have
better lives, while only 14 percent say life is worse in the United States.

Many Mexicans want to migrate here even though they are well informed about the
hardships they could face and are expecting conditions at home to improve.
Nearly half of those surveyed said they knew someone who had tried to reach the
United States but had returned home after being caught by border authorities.
Four in 10 said they knew someone who had returned home unable to find a job
here.

Although 78 percent of Mexicans said they were not happy with their nation's
direction, 61 percent said they expected the economy to get better in the coming
year.

''For many, many people in Mexico, this is still the land of opportunity,'' said
Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan organization
in Washington. The poll in Mexico is part of a series of surveys that Pew
conducted this year in 24 nations and the Palestinian territories to examine
global attitudes.

Personal connections between the two countries are intense. About 4 in 10
Mexicans reported having relatives or friends in the United States they
communicated with regularly.

The survey suggests that recent declines in Mexican migration to the United
States may be only temporary. A study in July by the Pew Hispanic Center, part
of the Pew organization, found a steep decrease in recent years in the flow of
Mexican migrants, especially since 2007. Scholars and immigration officials say
intensified border controls have combined with the lack of jobs in the United
States to discourage Mexicans from attempting an illegal journey. Currently,
about 11.5 million Mexicans live in this country, according to Pew; an estimated
7 million of them are illegal immigrants.

The survey was conducted through face-to-face interviews from May 26 to June 2
with 1,000 adults in Mexico, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus
three percentage points.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 27, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Homeland Security Is Ordered to Respond to Petition on Immigration Jails

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words


Substandard and abusive conditions in immigration detention ''are of the utmost
importance,'' a federal judge in Manhattan said Thursday, ruling that the
Department of Homeland Security's 2  1/2-year delay in responding to a petition
for legally enforceable regulations was ''unreasonable as a matter of law.''

The judge, Denny Chin of Federal District Court in Manhattan, ordered the Obama
administration to grant or deny the petition asking for detention rules within
30 days. He denied the government's motion to dismiss a lawsuit, filed last year
by two former immigration detainees and two advocacy agencies, seeking to force
a response.

No enforceable standards now exist for the immigration detention system, a
rapidly growing conglomeration of county jails, federal centers and privately
run prisons across the country where problems of detainee mistreatment have been
persistent and widespread. The lawsuit contends that the lack of regulations
puts hundreds of thousands of people a year at risk of abuse and inadequate
medical care while the government decides whether to deport them.

The suit is based on the Administrative Procedure Act, which allows courts to
force agencies to respond to rule-making petitions. Though the suit was filed
during the Bush administration, the judge's 14-page decision reflects impatience
with the new delaying tactics used by its successors.

Dan Kesselbrenner, executive director of the National Immigration Project of the
National Lawyers Guild, a plaintiff in the suit, said, ''We hope the Obama
administration will use this opportunity to provide enforceable detention
standards, which would be consistent with its stated goal of promoting
accountability in government.''

Matt Chandler, a spokesman for Homeland Security, said only that the agency
would comply with the court order by responding to the plaintiffs' petition
within 30 days.

The petition requesting that Homeland Security make its detention standards
enforceable was filed in January 2007, but only acknowledged 18 months later,
with a letter last July stating that Homeland Security and Immigration and
Customs Enforcement ''continue to study the possibility of commending a
rulemaking action.''

''The letter does not grant or deny plaintiffs' petition'' as the law requires,
Judge Chin wrote.

Homeland Security moved to dismiss the lawsuit last October. After oral
arguments, the judge reserved his decision, urging the parties to resolve the
matter. The departing administration asked for more time, saying it would issue
a final decision by Jan. 16, then asking for five more days.

By then, President Obama had taken office, and there was an expectation of
change by the plaintiffs, who also include Families for Freedom, a New
York-based advocacy group for immigrant detainees; Rafiu Abimbola, a Nigerian
who was detained for more than six years while seeking asylum; and Camal
Marchabeyoglu, now a legal permanent resident living in Corona, Calif.

But on Jan. 21, Homeland Security informed the court that it could neither meet
the deadline nor commit to a date by which it would reply. Since then, Janet
Napolitano, who replaced Michael Chertoff as secretary of Homeland Security, has
ordered a comprehensive review of detention practices. No recommendations have
yet emerged.

''Plaintiffs allege that detainees in D.H.S. custody are dying as a result of
the substandard conditions under which they are held,'' Judge Chin wrote in his
decision. ''Plaintiffs' claim clearly implicates concerns of human health and
welfare, making D.H.S.'s delay in responding to the petition that much more
egregious.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justice Ignored

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 412 words


In January  2007, two immigrant advocacy groups and two former immigration
detainees petitioned the Department of Homeland Security to take a simple but
important step. They asked it to establish legally enforceable standards for the
detention system, a fast-growing network of federal centers, county jails and
private prisons that has been plagued by medical neglect and abuse.

The petition was ignored, even after reports of several preventable deaths. This
was typical for the Bush administration, whose war on illegal immigration was
notable for its slipshod cruelty. After waiting more than a year, the advocates
sued.

More time passed. So did the Bush administration. On Jan. 21, the day after
President Obama was inaugurated, Homeland Security told the court it couldn't
meet a deadline set for that month to respond to the petition, or commit to a
date by which it would reply. Neither Mr. Obama nor his new secretary of
homeland security has since responded or announced any change of policy.

On June 25, a federal district judge in Manhattan declared that the now
two-and-a-half-year delay in answering the petition was ''unreasonable as a
matter of law,'' and ordered the department to respond within 30 days.  The
judge, Denny Chin, took note of the plaintiffs' assertion that ''detainees in
D.H.S. custody are dying as a result of the substandard conditions.'' He called
the department's continued silence ''egregious.''

The Homeland Security secretary, Janet Napolitano, had earlier announced plans
for a comprehensive review of the detention system and other messes left by
President Bush. But little has changed, and it has been left to federal judges
to correct abuses as they can.

Last month, a judge in New Haven halted the deportations of four immigrant men
who had been seized in a blatantly unconstitutional raid by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents who stormed a house without permission, warrant or
evidence. I.C.E. had refused to let its agents be cross-examined in the court.

Immigrant advocates greeted the election of President Obama as a chance to
finally bring moderation and accountability to a rogue, unresponsive immigration
system. In late June, advocates celebrated Mr. Obama's pledge to solve the
immigration mess once and for all, maybe with a bill this year.

But a lot of suffering needs to be undone right now. The administration's
promises would be more convincing if it finally fixed the corrupted detention
system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. TO OVERHAUL DETENTION POLICY FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words


The Obama administration intends to announce an ambitious plan on Thursday to
overhaul the much-criticized way the nation detains immigration violators,
trying to transform it from a patchwork of jail and prison cells to what its new
chief called a ''truly civil detention system.''

Details are sketchy, and even the first steps will take months or years to
complete. They include reviewing the federal government's contracts with more
than 350 local jails and private prisons, with an eye toward consolidating many
detainees in places more suitable for noncriminals facing deportation -- some
possibly in centers built and run by the government.

The plan aims to establish more centralized authority over the system, which
holds about 400,000 immigration detainees over the course of a year, and more
direct oversight of detention centers that have come under fire for mistreatment
of detainees and substandard -- sometimes fatal -- medical care.

One move starts immediately: the government will stop sending families to the T.
Don Hutto Residential Center, a former state prison near Austin, Tex., that drew
an American Civil Liberties Union lawsuit and scathing news coverage for putting
young children behind razor wire.

''We're trying to move away from 'one size fits all,' '' John Morton, who heads
the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency as assistant secretary of
homeland security, said in an interview on Wednesday. Detention on a large scale
must continue, he said, ''but it needs to be done thoughtfully and humanely.''

Hutto, a 512-bed center run for profit by the Corrections Corporation of America
under a $2.8 million-a-month federal contract, was presented as a centerpiece of
the Bush administration's tough approach to immigration enforcement when it
opened in 2006. The decision to stop sending families there -- and to set aside
plans for three new family detention centers -- is the Obama administration's
clearest departure from its predecessor's immigration enforcement policies.

So far, the new administration has embraced many of those policies, expanding a
program to verify worker immigration status that has been widely criticized,
bolstering partnerships between federal immigration agents and local police
departments, and rejecting a petition for legally binding rules on conditions in
immigration detention.

But Mr. Morton, a career prosecutor, said he was taking a new philosophical
approach to detention -- that the system's purpose was to remove immigration
violators from the country, not imprison them, and that under the government's
civil authority, detention is aimed at those who pose a serious risk of flight
or danger to the community.

Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, said last week that she
expected the number of detainees to stay the same or grow slightly. But Mr.
Morton added that the immigration agency would consider alternative ways to
assure that those who face deportation -- and are not dangerous -- do not flee.

Reviewing and redesigning all facilities, programs and standards will be the
task of a new Office of Detention Policy and Planning, he said. Dora Schriro,
special adviser to Ms. Napolitano, will become the director, assisted by two
experts on detention management and medical care. The agency will also form two
advisory boards of community groups and immigrant advocates, one focusing on
detention policies and practices, the other on detainee health care.

Mr. Morton said he would appoint 23 detention managers to work in the 23 largest
detention centers, including several run by private companies, to ensure that
problems are promptly fixed. He is reorganizing the agency's inspection unit
into three regional operations, renaming it the Office of Detention Oversight,
and making its agents responsible for investigating detainee grievances as well
as conducting routine and random checks.

''A lot of this exists already,'' he said. ''A lot of it is making it work
better'' while Dr. Schriro's office redesigns the detention system, which he
called ''disjointed'' and ''very much dependent on excess capacity in the
criminal justice system.''

Asked if his vision could include building new civil detention centers, he said
yes. The current 32,000-bed network costs $2.4 billion a year, but the agency is
not ready to calculate the cost of a revamped system.

Vanita Gupta, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who led the lawsuit
against the Hutto center, was jubilant over the decision to stop sending
families there, but cautious about the other measures.

''The ending of family detention at Hutto is welcome news and long overdue,''
she said in an e-mail message. ''However, without independently enforceable
standards, a reduction in beds, or basic due process before people are locked
up, it is hard to see how the government's proposed overhaul of the immigration
detention system is anything other than a reorganization or renaming of what was
in place before.''

Ms. Gupta said the changes at Hutto since 2006 illustrated the importance of
enforceable rules. Before the A.C.L.U. lawsuit was settled in 2007, some
children under 10 stayed as long as a year, mainly confined to family cells with
open toilets, with only one hour of schooling a day. Children told of being
threatened by guards with separation from their parents, many of them
asylum-seekers from around the world.

Only through judicial enforcement of the settlement, she said, have children
been granted such liberties as wearing pajamas at night and taking crayons into
family cells. The settlement also required the agency to honor agency standards
that had been ignored, like timely reviews of the decision to detain a family at
all. Some families have been deported, but others were released or are now
awaiting asylum decisions in housing run by nonprofit social service agencies.

That kind of stepped-up triage could be part of the more civil detention system
envisioned by Mr. Morton and Dr. Schriro, who has been reviewing the detention
system for months and is expected to report her recommendations soon.

But the Hutto case also points to the limits of their approach, advocates say.
Under the settlement, parents and children accused of immigration violations
were detained when possible at the country's only other family detention center,
an 84-bed former nursing home in Leesport, Pa., called the Berks Family Shelter
Care Facility. The number detained at Hutto has dropped sharply, to 127
individuals from as many as 450.

Advocates noted that Berks, though eclipsed by the criticism of Hutto -- the
subject of protest vigils, a New Yorker article and a documentary -- also has a
history of problems, like guards who disciplined children by sending them across
the parking lot to a juvenile detention center, and families' being held for two
years.

The Hutto legal settlement expires Aug. 29. In the most recent monitoring report
last month, Magistrate Judge Andrew W. Austin wrote: ''Although the use of this
facility to hold families is not a violation of the settlement agreement, it
seems fundamentally wrong to house children and their noncriminal parents this
way. We can do better.''

Mr. Morton, a career prosecutor, seemed to agree. Hutto will be converted into
an immigration jail for women, he said, adding: ''I'm not ruling out the
possibility of detaining families. But Berks is the better facility for that.
Hutto is not the long-term answer.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two views inside the notorious T. Don Hutto Residential Center
in Texas: Above, a family cell
left, families in the hall. The government will stop sending families there.
(POOL PHOTO BY L.M. OTERO
 CHARLES REED/DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY. VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Official To Run New York's Jails

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 663 words


The corrections expert appointed just a month ago to direct an overhaul of the
nation's troubled immigration detention system is leaving the Obama
administration to be commissioner of correction for New York City, Department of
Homeland Security officials said on Tuesday.

The expert, Dora B. Schriro, did not return calls for comment, and the Homeland
Security officials who confirmed her departure were not authorized to speak for
attribution. But an administration official who discussed the decision with Dr.
Schriro said her main reason was the needs of a sick family member in New York,
not any policy disagreements with the administration.

Immigrant advocates who learned of her imminent departure from a reporter
expressed dismay and concern that the ambitious overhaul announced by the Obama
administration last month would be delayed, if not derailed, by her loss.

But in a statement sent by e-mail to The New York Times, the department vowed to
conduct an immediate national search to replace Dr. Schriro as director of the
new Office of Detention Policy and Planning, a position in which she was to
reinvent the patchwork of private prisons and county jails where hundreds of
thousands of people accused of being immigration violators are held each year
while Immigration and Customs Enforcement tries to deport them.

Dr. Schriro, 59, was appointed to the post in August, and was expected to bring
to bear the findings she made during a six-month review of the detention system
as a special adviser to Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security.

''The Department of Homeland Security is grateful for Dr. Schriro's service over
the past six months in improving the ICE detention system, prioritizing health
and safety while ensuring security, efficiency and fiscal responsibility,'' the
department's statement said. ''Prior to departing, Dr. Schriro will meet with
Secretary Napolitano and ICE Assistant Secretary John Morton to deliver her
completed review of the system and make recommendations for comprehensive,
long-term reform.''

The Bloomberg administration would neither confirm nor deny the appointment of
Dr. Schriro to head the city's Department of Correction, where she was an
assistant commissioner 20 years ago. But Homeland Security officials said the
announcement was expected Wednesday afternoon.

''It will be a huge gain for them,'' said Dr. Homer D. Venters, an expert in
detention health care and one of many advocates with whom Dr. Schriro met around
the country as she reviewed the detention system. ''There's a very short supply
of people who are operationally experienced but also are committed to improving
the plight of people within these systems.''

The city's jail complex, much of it on Rikers Island, has been plagued by recent
scandals, including the fatal beating of a prisoner, accusations that correction
officers had turned discipline over to gang members, and the revelation that a
city chaplain had arranged a lavish bar mitzvah party in jail for the son of a
prisoner. The commissioner, Martin F. Horn, retired on July 31.

For a veteran correction director like Dr. Schriro, who led corrections in
Missouri before tackling the Arizona prisons when Ms. Napolitano was governor
there, fixing Rikers may be less challenging than refocusing immigration
detention.

Detention centers have increasingly come under fire for mistreatment of
detainees and substandard, sometimes fatal medical care. The Obama
administration announced that it would change the much-criticized penal
detention system over a three- to five-year period into one that was ''truly
civil.''

''I think this is a significant loss,'' Mary Meg McCarthy, director of Heartland
Alliance Immigrant Justice Center, based in Chicago, said of Dr. Schriro's
departure. ''She really seemed to have the energy and the passion to address the
reform that was so desperately needed -- and the creativity that I think was
going to be required to do this.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2009



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about the
resignation of Dr. Dora B. Schriro from the Department of Homeland Security to
be New York City's correction commissioner misstated, in some copies, the
location of a city jail where a bar mitzvah party was held last December for an
inmate's son. It was in the Manhattan Detention Complex, on White Street in
Lower Manhattan, not on Rikers Island.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dora B. Schriro

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ideas for Immigrant Detention Include Converting Hotels and Building Models

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1000 words


The Obama administration is looking to convert hotels and nursing homes into
immigration detention centers and to build two model detention centers from
scratch as it tries to transform the way the government holds people it is
seeking to deport.

These and other initiatives, described in an interview on Monday by Janet
Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, are part of the administration's
effort to revamp the much-criticized detention system, even as it expands the
enforcement programs that send most people accused of immigration violations to
jails and private prisons. The cost, she said, would be covered by greater
efficiencies in the detention and removal system, which costs $2.4 billion
annually to operate and holds about 380,000 people a year.

''The paradigm was wrong,'' Ms. Napolitano said of the nation's patchwork of
rented jail space, which has more than tripled in size since 1995, largely
through Immigration and Customs Enforcement contracts for cells more
restrictive, and expensive, than required for a population that is largely not
dangerous. Among those in detention on Sept. 1, 51 percent were considered
felons, and of those, 11 percent had committed violent crimes.

''Serious felons deserve to be in the prison model,'' Ms. Napolitano said, ''but
there are others. There are women. There are children.''

These and other nonviolent people should be sorted and detained or supervised in
ways appropriate to their level of danger or flight risk, she said. Her goal,
she said, is ''to make immigration detention more cohesive, accountable and
relevant to the entire spectrum of detainees we are dealing with.''

Several of the initiatives Ms. Napolitano described, to be formally announced on
Tuesday afternoon, are steps on a road outlined in August, when John Morton, the
assistant secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, announced an
ambitious plan to transform the penal network into a ''truly civil detention
system.''

But the corrections expert he had put in charge of the overhaul, Dora B.
Schriro, quit last month to become the corrections commissioner in New York
City, after delivering a report on her eight-month top-to-bottom review of the
system. The report had remained under wraps until now.

Dr. Schriro's departure, and the delay in making her report public, dismayed
many of the dozens of immigrant advocacy groups she consulted. Her 35-page
report, provided to The New York Times after the interview on the condition that
it not be posted on its Web site until Tuesday afternoon, calls for prompt
attention to individual complaints about a lack of medical care, and ''a
credible grievance process, sustained in an environment free from intimidation
and retaliation.''

In her interview, Ms. Napolitano said little about medical care but promised
that within six months the Department of Homeland Security would ''devise and
implement'' a classification system to better place people with medical or
mental health needs in the right detention centers.

That vow puzzled some immigrant advocacy groups that deal with seriously ill
detainees, including some who have died in federal custody after not getting
proper treatment. The groups said they were concerned about the gap between
announced plans to improve medical care and the actions of immigration
officials.

Cheryl Little, the director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, pointed to
the case of a woman she called Rosemarie, who, while being detained at the
Glades County Detention Center, has suffered severe daily bleeding as a result
of a fibroid tumor in her uterus.

''This has gone on for more than the five months she has been in ICE custody,''
Ms. Little said. ''Since June, we have tried everything to get her proper
treatment. We started the requests at the local level and escalated up to D.H.S.
headquarters. Ultimately we've had to file a lawsuit, and Rosemarie still hasn't
had the surgery she needs.''

Ms. Napolitano noted repeatedly that some of the initiatives she was announcing
were ''easier said than done.'' Plans to speed the implementation of an online
system for families and lawyers to locate detainees, for example, have been
complicated by privacy issues and by the fact that many detainees share names
and some stay in the system for only a couple of days, she said.

Likewise, though alternatives to detention are much cheaper than the jails under
contract -- $14 a day at most per person, compared with more than $100 a day --
the overall cost is more complicated to calculate, she said.

About 19,000 noncitizens are supervised daily using alternatives like electronic
bracelets, but their immigration cases are moved to the back of the line for
adjudication. Homeland Security is working with the Justice Department, which
oversees immigration courts, to modify that practice, she said, and this fall
will submit a proposal to Congress to expand detention alternatives.

A request for proposals to build two model detention centers, one in California,
will be issued within a year, said Mr. Morton, the ICE official. On Oct. 30, he
said, he will solicit proposals and market research about converted hotels,
nursing homes and other residential facilities that could serve as less
expensive and less restrictive detention centers.

Mr. Morton said that on Sept. 18 the agency began housing nonviolent detainees,
including new asylum seekers, at the Broward Transitional Center in Pompano
Beach, Fla., near free legal help. But Charu al-Sahli, the statewide director of
the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, said the Broward center, run for profit
by GEO, a large prison company formerly known as Wackenhut, had been housing
asylum seekers since 2003.

A former work-release center now surrounded by barbed wire, it is being expanded
to house 700, up from 530.

''Even though it's a nicer environment than a jail,'' Ms. al-Sahli said, ''these
are still the people we would hold up for release, not just nicer detention.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An immigration detention center in Lumpkin, Ga., run by a
private company. The government is exploring holding detainees in less
restrictive, and cheaper, sites. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATE BRUMBACK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP
SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Salvaging Immigration Detention

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 571 words


The Obama administration is unveiling on Tuesday an ambitious plan to repair the
immigration detention system, a scandal-plagued mix of federal, state and local
lockups that grew vastly and rotted under the enforcement crusade led by former
President George W. Bush.

The homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, and John Morton, the director
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, deserve credit for proposing to
clean up a system notorious for shabby and abusive conditions, poor or
nonexistent medical treatment and a trail of preventable injuries and deaths.
The reforms, if they work and are maintained, would be a necessary corrective to
years of willful neglect.

Ms. Napolitano and Mr. Morton say that they want to make the system more
efficient, more accountable and less costly. The whole point of detaining
immigrants, after all, is to quickly figure out which ones should be deported
and to deport them, not to let them languish and certainly not to inflict
punishment or undue suffering.

But immigration detention has strayed far from that basic mission. Tuesday's
announcement includes statements of ''core principles'' so fundamental that you
have to wonder what they are replacing. Consider these:

''ICE will detain aliens in settings commensurate with the risk of flight and
danger they present.'' That means the government has finally come to understand
that detainees are not all violent criminals. They include young mothers and
their children, asylum seekers, upright members of communities who, but for a
lapsed visa or bureaucratic snafu, would not be in trouble with the law. Those
who can make no case for staying here should be deported. But it's gratifying to
hear Ms. Napolitano and Mr. Morton acknowledge that nonviolent noncriminals --
particularly those seeking refuge -- should not be warehoused behind bars. They
have promised to increase alternatives to detention, and we expect them to do
that --  even if it means a vast effort nationwide.

''ICE will provide sound medical care.'' This fundamental government
responsibility has been shamefully neglected in centers around the country. The
reform plan refers vaguely to a new ''medical classification system'' for
detainees that should improve treatment and reduce unnecessary and disruptive
medical transfers. ICE should make clear what that means and how that will help
those who become sick or injured only after they are admitted and classified.

Perhaps the most important principle behind these reforms is the reassertion of
central control over the sprawling, subcontracted system. The new plan asserts
that central control is not only smarter and more efficient but also cheaper.
''Each of these reforms,'' the agency says, ''are expected to be budget-neutral
or result in cost savings through reduced reliance on contractors to perform key
federal duties.''

Immigration detention is a prime example of things going bad when the government
subcontracts a vital mission to poorly supervised outsiders. The Obama
administration, like its predecessor, is under ferocious political pressure to
be seen as tough on people who have been unfairly depicted as a fundamentally
criminal, dangerous crowd. It is pushing back with an effort to be sane and
proportionate. If the reforms announced on Tuesday  work half as well as
promised, the country will be closer to a detention system it does not have to
be ashamed of.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 11, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Detention

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 216 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Salvaging Immigration Detention'' (editorial, Oct. 6):

The core principles presented by Janet Napolitano, the homeland security
secretary, and John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
are, as your editorial observed, essential to operating the immigration
detention system in a humane and unbiased manner that should reap the added
benefits of fewer expenses and less suffering.

What has helped create such a morass and waste in that detention system is the
combination of widespread fear and animosity toward the surge of illegal
immigrants, particularly in the last decade.

Some people are upset over reports of immigrants draining social services and
tax revenues, while others are angered about perceived threats to American
culture. But the rhetoric and rage attending the immigration debate for at least
a half decade have accomplished very little save an unproductive stasis as
anti-illegal-immigration forces battled advocates to a draw, resulting in no
meaningful results or resolution to the problem.

Perhaps the reforms might lead to salvaging not only a damaged detention system,
but also realistic and comprehensive immigration reform.

Wayne Trujillo Denver, Oct.  6, 2009

The writer is the editor of the Web site Latino Landscape.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Arrested in Attempt to Crash Border

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 682 words


Two Mexican men were arrested on federal human-trafficking charges  Wednesday, a
day after officials said three vans in which they were riding with scores of
other Mexicans tried to run through the border station at San Diego.

The attempted border-running, which led immigration and customs agents to  fire
on the vans, caused the authorities to close down the station -- the busiest
land crossing into the United States -- for about four hours.

One van driver and one passenger were taken to a San Diego hospital with gunshot
wounds, one of them with serious injuries, the police said.

The episode highlighted a growing boldness among  migrant smugglers, immigration
officials said, as well as the increasing number of immigrants trying to cross
illegally through Southwest border posts to avoid risking the arduous trek
through backlands between the stations.

''It shows you how brazen these smuggling organizations are becoming,''  Michael
Unzueta, the special agent in charge for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
San Diego, said Wednesday in a telephone interview.

About 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday, the three vans pulled into the station at San
Ysidro, just south of San Diego, and tried to drive past the first line of
Customs and Border Protection booths, immigration and police officials said.

Border agents quickly halted the first van as the other two sped up and veered
across lanes, looking for a clear roadway to the United States.

''The two vans backed up, wheels spinning, and drove together at a high rate of
speed across the inspection area,'' said Lt. Kevin Rooney, supervisor of the San
Diego police's homicide unit.

Three border agents opened fire when the vans were ''bearing directly down on
them,'' Lieutenant Rooney said.  No shots were fired from the vans, he said.

Lieutenant Rooney said his unit had opened an investigation of the incident, a
routine procedure because the officers had fired their weapons.

An immigrant from one of the three vans and a passenger from a truck that was
passing through the station were injured when the vans collided with nearby
vehicles, and they also were taken to a San Diego hospital.

The driver of one van, who escaped back across the border, was arrested
Wednesday, the Mexican police said. They said he  was a  minor and would remain
in jail there. Mr. Unzueta, the ICE official, said that violence linked to human
smuggling was rising because the business has become dominated by well-organized
criminal groups in Mexico.

''This was not a mom-and-pop smuggling organization,'' Mr. Unzueta said.

In recent years, a growing number of the illegal immigrants caught at the border
have tried to cross through legal stations, immigration officials said.

From October to June, 129,779 people were stopped trying to sneak through ports
of entry, according to the latest official figures. In the same period, 429,247
people were detained trying to cross between stations.

Tougher border enforcement has made it far more risky and expensive for Mexicans
to cross through deserts and mountains.

The federal agency in charge of patrolling the borders, Customs and Border
Protection, has added 11,212 agents in the last three years. In a recent study,
Wayne Cornelius, co-director of a center on migration at the University of
California, San Diego, found that 28 percent of Mexican immigrants he surveyed
in early 2009 had slipped into the United States through a border station,
including 52 percent who were hidden inside a vehicle and 39 percent who used
fraudulent documents.

''This is now a well-established mode of illegal entry,'' Mr. Cornelius said,
preferred by women and children and anyone else seeking to minimize the dangers
of crossing.

But the study showed that smugglers charge significantly more for passage
through a border station, Mr. Cornelius said, up to $5,000 per person compared
with $3,000 for a crossing outside a station.

With more than 225 million crossings annually through Southwest border stations,
Mr. Cornelius said, ''close scrutiny of this massive flow is impossible.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trial to Begin on Plant's Illegal Workers

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; Monica Davey contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 427 words


The former chief executive of an Iowa slaughterhouse that was at the center of
one of nation's largest immigration raids is scheduled to stand trial in federal
court beginning Tuesday on a host of charges including money laundering and bank
fraud.

The defendant, Sholom Rubashkin, was a top manager and part of the family
ownership at Agriprocessors Inc., a meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, that
was one of the largest kosher slaughterhouses in the country.

Mr. Rubashkin, 49, is accused of being closely involved in efforts to employ
illegal workers at the plant, in addition to the fraud-related charges.

About half of Agriprocessors' work force was arrested at the plant in the May
2008 raid. The immigrants had reported the use of under-age employees and what
they said were abusive work conditions to the authorities.

Hundreds of workers, some from Guatemala, were convicted on federal charges
after the raid. Most served five months in prison and were deported.

Iowa prosecutors initially faced criticism for punishing the workers but not
Agriprocessors' executives and owners. Mr. Rubashkin is the highest-ranking
executive to face arrest in stepped-up immigration raids at packinghouses
nationwide since late 2006.

The trial had been set to take place in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, not far from the
slaughterhouse. But a judge granted a change of venue, to Sioux Falls, S.D.,
saying that news coverage of the case posed a risk of influencing potential
jurors.

''Mr. Rubashkin denies all charges levied against him, and is thankful for the
court's ruling giving a change of venue,'' said Guy R. Cook, a lawyer for Mr.
Rubashkin. ''This gives him a fair chance at trial.''

Mr. Rubashkin actually faces two separate trials. The first, which is expected
to last five or six weeks, is set to focus on nearly 100 fraud charges,
including making false statements to a bank and failing to pay livestock
providers. A second trial on dozens of immigration-related charges is expected
to begin one week after the end of the fraud trial. Mr. Rubashkin and his
father, Aaron Rubashkin, both Lubavitch Hasidic Jews, built Agriprocessors into
a kosher giant.

According to a criminal complaint, in the days before the raid, Mr. Rubashkin
participated directly in efforts to obtain fraudulent documents that could pass
immigration agents' scrutiny for dozens of illegal immigrants working in
Postville.

The complaint suggests that plant managers heard a raid was coming and told many
workers they would have to present valid identity documents or be fired.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sholom Rubashkin is accused of being closely involved in
efforts to hire illegal workers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN D. WOODS/IOWA CITY
GAZETTE)
 Hundreds of workers at the Agriprocessors slaughterhouse in Iowa were arrested
in a 2008 raid.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 3, 2009 Thursday 00:00 EST

Settlers From Afar, in Land of Lincoln;
Movie Review | 'Amreeka'

BYLINE: STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 844 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Amreeka" stands as one of the most accomplished recent films about a
non-European immigrant coming to the United States.


 Cherien Dabis's "Amreeka" (the Arabic word for America) stands alongside "The
Visitor" and "Maria Full of Grace" as one of the most accomplished recent films
about a non-European immigrant coming to the United States. While the arrivals
in the other two movies were not legal immigrants, the indomitably good-natured
protagonist of "Amreeka," Muna Farah (Nisreen Faour), is a divorced non-Muslim
Palestinian woman with  a green card.

"Amreeka," which is set in 2003 at the outset of the American-led invasion of
Iraq, is inspired by the experiences of Ms. Dabis, a Palestinian-Jordanian who
grew up in Ohio and in Jordan and whose parents immigrated to the United States
just before she was born. During the Persian Gulf war, she recalls in the
production notes, her family faced the same kinds of persecution and ostracism
that Muna and her sister's family, the Halabys, suffer  as the invasion
continues.

The early scenes in the West Bank show Muna stoically enduring the daily
humiliation of having to pass through two Israeli checkpoints on her grueling
commute from Bethlehem to work in a bank. For all the hardships of life in the
West Bank, in coming to America, she is forsaking a relatively comfortable
existence  to venture into the unknown with her 16-year-old son, Fadi (Melkar
Muallem).

At the Chicago airport, where they are detained for three hours, mother and son
endure the same sort of hostile interrogation they received at West Bank
checkpoints. After finally passing through immigration, they are met by Muna's
severe sister, Raghda Halaby (Hiam Abbass), and her family, who live in a
semi-rural suburb.

Raghda, who left  the West Bank 15 years earlier but is still profoundly
homesick, is married to a successful Palestinian doctor, Nabeel (Yussef Abu
Warda). The couple have three daughters, the oldest of whom, Salma (Alia
Shawkat), is Fadi's age and becomes his guide to the treacherous jungle of
American high school life. Horrified at Fadi's pleated trousers, because they
make him look "F.O.B." ("fresh off the boat," she explains), she supervises his
wardrobe for his first day of school, and the two become fellow rebels from the
social mainstream.

Muna's first major setback is her discovery while unpacking that the sealed tin
of cookies in which she  had stashed all her money is missing, having been
confiscated by the immigration authorities, along with the other food she had
brought. Deeply ashamed, she is too proud to tell her sister.

Unlike other recent films about immigration, "Amreeka" maintains the buoyant
mood of a serious sitcom. As Muna and Fadi confront hostility and prejudice,
their misadventures, some of which augur disaster, are resolved without too much
grief. The movie is peppered with little jokes. Scrutinizing the cover of a
supermarket tabloid, Muna asks, "What does adopting an orangutan love child
mean?" A roadside sign with missing letters advises, "Support our oops."

The film's upbeat tone reflects the resilience and sunny temperament of Muna,
who as embodied by Ms. Faour is the kind of warm, lovable woman you want to hug.
Desperate for work and unable to find it at a local bank, Muna takes a job at a
White Castle next door but pretends to her family that the bank is her
workplace.

At school, Fadi encounters ethnic slurs and bullying, and in the most serious
incident is arrested after retaliating. At the same time, rising anti-Arab
sentiment decimates Nabeel's medical practice and strains the Halabys' marriage.
As his practice evaporates, Ms. Abbass, the great Palestinian actress who also
appeared in "The Visitor," imbues Raghda with a heavy weight of sorrow and
anxiety.

Through it all, Muna perseveres. For every hostile person she encounters, there
is a good Samaritan. Her co-workers at White Castle are understanding when she
makes mistakes. Her most helpful ally is Mr. Novatski (Joseph Ziegler), the
divorced Polish-Jewish principal at Fadi's school, who comes to his rescue at a
crucial turning point.

If, at moments, the film's positive outlook verges on naïveté, it never strays
over separating the possible from the preposterous. "Amreeka" believes in
people, and its faith rubs off on you.

"Amreeka" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It includes some strong
language.

AMREEKA

Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.

Written and directed by Cherien Dabis; director of photography, Tobias Datum;
edited by Keith Reamer; music by Kareem Roustom; production designer, Aidan
Leroux; produced by Christina Piovesan and Paul Barkin; released by National
Geographic Entertainment. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes.

WITH: Nisreen Faour (Muna Farah), Melkar Muallem (Fadi Farah), Hiam Abbass
(Raghda Halaby), Alia Shawkat (Salma Halaby), Yussef Abu Warda (Nabeel Halaby)
and Joseph Ziegler (Mr. Novatski).

PHOTO: Nisreen Faour as a Palestinian immigrant  in Illinois getting by with a
job at White Castle in the early days of the Iraq war in Cherien Dabis's
"Amreeka." (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC ENTERTAINMENT)

An Arab-American family copes in the turmoil of 2003.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 7, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Flu's Effects on Immigrants and the Working Poor

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 390 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Even as Fears of Flu Ebb, Mexicans Feel Stigma'' (front page, May 5):

Aside from the actions taken by health officials against travelers from Mexico,
which may or may not be legitimate, another side effect of the spread of swine
flu is the outrageous attempt by some fear-mongering pundits in the United
States to blame undocumented immigrants from Mexico for the spread of disease,
which is illegitimate and unacceptable.

Sadly, some radio talk-show hosts, pundits and bloggers are exploiting the
global outbreak to vilify and demonize immigrants from Mexico. Their message
plays into age-old stereotypes of immigrants as disease-laden intruders and
raises a real possibility of discrimination against and harassment of legal and
illegal immigrants, who have had no contact with those carrying the disease and
who pose no public health risk.

While the flu outbreak is serious and should be met with an equally appropriate
response from public health officials, fair-minded Americans should reject any
effort to use this outbreak as an excuse to spread the virus of hate.

Deborah M. Lauter Director, Civil Rights Anti-Defamation League New York, May 5,
2009

To the Editor:

Re ''A Nation of Typhoid Marys,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, May 3):

Fixing our nation's broken health care system won't shield us from a pandemic.

First and foremost, we must protect the working poor, whose everyday lives make
them not only more susceptible to infection but also to spreading it.

In a health emergency, these folks have few options. They can't take time off
from work for illness without risking their jobs. Instead, they go to work or
send their kids to school or day care, where disease is free to spread. They
frequently take crowded subways and buses to get to and from their jobs.

Health is more than hospital emergency rooms and doctors' offices. It's where we
all live, learn, work and play: these places are our first lines of defense
against disease and contagion.

We must do more to improve the lives of society's most vulnerable members to
protect all of us from the next pandemic.

David R. Williams Boston, May 3, 2009

The writer, staff director of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Commission to
Build a Healthier America, is a professor of public health at the Harvard School
of Public Health.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ohio: Surrender Ordered For Man In Death-Camp Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 104 words


Immigration agents served John Demjanjuk with a notice to surrender to an
immigration office in Cleveland, his son said, the latest volley in a  legal
battle over Mr. Demjanjuk's citizenship. Mr. Demjanjuk, 89, faces deportation to
Germany, where an arrest warrant accuses him of 29,000 counts of accessory to
murder at a death camp in Nazi-occupied Poland during World War II. Mr.
Demjanjuk, a native of Ukraine, says he was not a death camp guard and maintains
he was held by the Germans as a Soviet prisoner of war. The notice was served a
day after the Supreme Court declined to hear his appeal to stop the deportation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

9 Die as Haitian Immigrants' Boat Sinks

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Carmen Gentile contributed reporting from Riviera Beach,
Fla.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Coast Guard pulled 27 people out of the waters off Boynton Beach on
Wednesday, at least 9 of them dead, after a boat packed with Haitian immigrants
capsized and sank.

Survivors told rescuers that the boat flipped around 2 a.m., but it was not
discovered until 10 hours later, when a person passing by in a boat called the
Coast Guard to say he had fished three people out of the water about 15 miles
offshore. He said dozens of others were in need of help.

Petty Officer Barry Bena, a Coast Guard spokesman, said the group included men
and women, mostly from Haiti, with a few from the Bahamas. Later reports from
the Coast Guard said children and a pregnant woman were among the passengers.

They appeared to be trying to reach the United States from Bimini in the
Bahamas. In late springtime, the waters off Florida are more calm, and many
migrants use the Bahamas as a jumping off point for Florida. But details on
their identities, time of departure or what led the boat to capsizing were not
known Wednesday night.

''We have not located any vessel,'' Petty Officer Bena said. ''We're only
getting information from people who were on it.''

Coast Guard officials said the rescue effort was among the largest in recent
years. It included two large Coast Guard boats from Lake Worth, Fla., along with
two HH-65 helicopters and an HU-25 Falcon jet from Miami. At least five people
were flown from the scene to area hospitals.

An ad hoc trauma center, complete with a portable morgue, was set up at Phil
Foster Park along the Intercoastal Waterway in Riviera Beach. Around 7:30 p.m.,
several paramedic trucks surrounded a mobile command unit and officials from
local police agencies, Customs and Border Control and other law enforcement
agencies milled about, as a Coast Guard ship returned with survivors and the
dead bodies in silver bags.

''It makes you wonder what people go through to get here,'' said Betty Moore,
49, who works at a drug treatment center overlooking the park. ''For people to
go through such extremes, there must be something horrible going on in their
home country.''

Indeed, the incident promises to renew debate over immigration policy for
Haitians. Haiti has long been the poorest country in the hemisphere, and it is
still reeling from  storms that killed an estimated 1,000 people last year and
led to food shortages.

Since the fiscal year started in October, the Coast Guard said it has
apprehended 1,377 Haitian immigrants, up from 972 in the same seven-month period
last year.

In March, the Department of Homeland Security said it would continue deporting
illegal Haitian immigrants, despite appeals by the Haitian government, which
said returnees could destabilize a country where food, water and housing are
scarce.

Cheryl Little, a lawyer with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, said the
roughly 30,000 Haitians currently facing deportation -- a group Wednesday's
survivors are likely to join -- should be allowed to stay in the United States
until the situation in Haiti improves.

''What we're encouraging our government to do is grant some kind of temporary
legal status to Haitians already here,'' Ms. Little said, ''so they can have
work permits, and be able to send desperately needed money to their loved ones
in Haiti.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A boat survivor was moved on Wednesday into the Coast Guard
station in Riviera Beach, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN EYESTONE/THE PALM BEACH
POST, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arriving With 5 Shillings, Leaving With Hundreds of Friends

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 606 words


They say he arrived with five shillings in his pocket and a union card. It was
1963 and Austin Delaney was in his early 20s, the son of farmers from County
Mayo in western Ireland. He had traveled alone and, like so many other
immigrants before and after him, carried little more than his ambitions to make
something of himself in New York.

In the ensuing decades, some would come to know Mr. Delaney, who died of cancer
on Friday at  70, as an owner of several popular bars and restaurants, most
recently the Rosie O'Grady's saloons in Midtown Manhattan and the Harbour Lights
Restaurant at the South Street Seaport.

But for many New Yorkers, hundreds of whom mourned him at a wake on Sunday and a
funeral on Monday, he was a low-profile yet crucial benefactor to generations of
Irish immigrants.

''He didn't believe you should pull the ladder up after you,'' Ciaran Staunton,
co-founder and president of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform, said after
the funeral at the Church of the Holy Name of Jesus on the Upper West Side. ''It
was not only about leaving the ladder for others to climb but reaching down with
a hand to help.''

In every immigrant community in New York, a few people emerge as linchpins --
part fixer, part rescuer, part counselor, part diplomat. They are the leaders
you might be directed to for help when you first arrive in town or when you need
a loan or a job. They make connections between strangers that lead to new
businesses and romances. They mediate disputes. They can quickly raise money to
cover someone's medical or legal bills or to ship a body home.

''A lot of people who came here felt like they were adopted by Austin,'' the
Rev. Frank O'Shannon, a close friend, said in a brief eulogy on Monday.

In a story that echoed many others told over the weekend, Father O'Shannon
recalled how cousins of his visited New York one summer and found jobs through
Mr. Delaney. ''They were lousy waitresses,'' he said, ''but they had a great
time.''

At fund-raisers for Irish causes, Mr. Delaney was munificent but demure, Mr.
Staunton said. '' 'Don't say where it came from,' '' he recalled Mr. Delaney's
saying. ''That was his thing.''

Niall O'Dowd, a prominent Irish-American journalist, wrote on Irishcentral.com
that ''it was always done quietly: a nudge in the direction of a certain
premises, a quiet word in the ear of a well-known Irish businessman that maybe
this young lad out from Ireland deserved a chance.''

On his arrival in New York, Mr. Delaney, who dropped out of school at age 10,
found work as a laborer in the construction trade, relatives said.

He opened his first pub, in the Bedford Park section of the Bronx, with his
brother, who had also immigrated to the United States. In 1969, Mr. Delaney
entered into a partnership with Mike Carty, another Irish-American bar owner,
and the two began a 40-year business relationship that lasted until Mr.
Delaney's death.

In the 1970s, the partners opened up the first of the Rosie O'Grady's saloons in
Manhattan.

Mr. Delaney, who lived on the Upper East Side and had three children and several
grandchildren, also became a passionate devotee of the racetrack, breeding and
running winning horses.

''He did very well for himself,'' said Patrick Lane, manager of the Rosie
O'Grady's on 46th Street.  ''If you asked him about how he did what he did, he'd
say, 'It's all just a bit of luck.'''

About 20 of Mr. Delaney's friends and family in New York accompanied his coffin
on a flight back to Ireland on Monday night, Mr. Carty said.

''We've been with him this long,'' Mr. Lane said. ''We're going to go to the end
with him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The coffin holding Austin Delaney, co-owner of Rosie O'Grady's,
being carried out of the Church of the Holy Name of Jesus on the Upper West
Side.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Austin Delaney, 70, died on Friday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Prisons To Check Inmates' Immigration History

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 48 words


All prisoners booked into the Texas Department of Criminal Justice's intake site
in Huntsville will have their fingerprints checked with the Department of
Homeland Security's biometric system for any immigration record.  The process
will eventually include all 24 Texas prison intake sites.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's in a Name? For Hispanics, a Generational Shift

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 839 words


Jose, the No. 1 Hispanic name for newborns in the United States, has been
declining in popularity for years, and here is one possible reason: The
American-born children of parents who arrived in the vast immigrant tide from
Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America since 1980 now constitute a
majority of Hispanic youngsters in the United States.

''This is the future,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew
Hispanic Center. ''The second generation historically has been the generation
that becomes American, that integrates.''

Typically, choosing an American name for a newborn member of the second
generation has been part of that process.

A Pew center study released Thursday revealed a profound change in the younger
Hispanic population compared with 1980, before the latest influx.

This second generation of Hispanics -- the American-born children of at least
one Hispanic immigrant parent -- now accounts for 52 percent of the nation's 16
million Hispanic children, according to the study. Over all, more than 9 in 10
Hispanic children living in the United States were born here, and that
proportion has been growing.

About 4 in 10 in that second generation have at least one parent  in the United
States illegally, which means the immigration status of the family is mixed.

Among all Hispanic children, 11 percent, or 1.7 million, are foreign-born. Of
those, about two in three are in the country illegally, the study found.
Hispanics also now make up 22 percent of children under 18, the study found, up
from 9 percent in 1980.

The number of Hispanic immigrant children is expected to grow through 2025,
although their share of all Hispanic children appears to have peaked in 2000 at
about 15 percent.

''More and more kids are going to have U.S.-born and U.S.-educated parents,''
said Richard Fry, senior research associate at the Pew center, who wrote the Pew
study with Mr. Passel. ''They're going to be more American, which means they're
going to be more familiar with American institutions, and that has positive
consequences and some negative consequences.''

Dr. Fry said that while Asian students generally had higher graduation rates and
scored better on achievement tests than Hispanic students, Asian and Hispanic
youngsters learned English at about the same pace. Forty-three percent of
foreign-born Hispanic children, 21 percent of the second generation and only 5
percent in the third generation or higher said they were not fluent in English.

But the decline in the poverty rate is less steep, the study found. At 47
percent for first-generation Latino children, the rate falls to 26 percent in
the second generation, but then drops to only 24 percent in the third.

''Most of these data reflect the classic pattern of socioeconomic gains for
immigrant families from one generation to the next,'' the Pew report concluded,
with two glaring differences: so many are illegal immigrants, and the proportion
of children being raised by a single parent is higher in the third generation
than in the first or second.

Pew projects that the proportion of third-generation Hispanic children will
begin growing around 2015.

Since 2000, the number of babies born to Hispanic women in the United States has
surpassed the number of Hispanic immigrants, which means a growing proportion of
Hispanic people are being raised as Americans from birth.

''The Hispanics of the future are going to be U.S. citizens, they're going to be
Americans because they're born here and grew up here in ways that are different
from their immigrant parents,'' Mr. Passel said.

According to the Social Security Administration, the name Jose ranked 28 among
all newborn  boys in 2004 and has declined in popularity every year since.

''In general,'' said Guillermina Jasso, a sociology professor at New York
University, ''the names immigrants give their children go through three stages
-- from names in the original language, to universal names, and finally to names
in the destination-country language. Accordingly, I would expect a decline in
the name Jose.''

Don L. F. Nilsen, a former co-president of the American Name Society and an
English professor at Arizona State University, agreed.

''Because of the increase of second- and third-generation Hispanics in the
United States, the national trend in most Hispanic states (except for Texas), is
that Hispanic names are becoming less common, and more Anglo names are used in
their place,'' he said. ''The one exception to this general trend is the name
Jesus, which is not a common Anglo name.''

There is little data about the popularity of names just among Hispanics, but in
places with high Hispanic populations, Jose seems to be less common. In
California, Jose ranked second among newborn boys a decade ago and is now  10th.
In Los Angeles County, it was the most popular  boy's name in 1998, but  13th in
2007.

Even in Texas, where Jose is still the most popular boys' name, the number of
Joses has declined every year since 2000.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Widowed Spouses Are Given Reprieve on Deportation Rule

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 411 words


Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, gave a two-year reprieve
on Tuesday to immigrants whose applications for permanent residency have been
denied because their American spouses died during the application process.

Under United States law, a foreign spouse of an American citizen is eligible for
residency, but the couple is required to be married for at least two years
first, in part as a safeguard against fraudulent marriages.

The government has argued that if the American spouse dies before the two-year
mark, the foreign spouse becomes a widow or widower, effectively annulling the
right to be considered for residency, and thereby opening the door to
deportation.

While Ms. Napolitano's order does not change or abolish the law, as its
opponents have sought, it suspends action, including deportation proceedings, in
cases involving widows and widowers who reside in the United States and were
married for fewer than two years before their spouses died.

''Smart immigration policy balances strong enforcement practices with
common-sense, practical solutions to complicated issues,'' Ms. Napolitano said
in a written statement.

Lawyers and other advocates who have been lobbying to amend the law, which they
call ''the widow penalty,'' gave the decision a lukewarm response.

''It's better than we had before,'' said Brent Renison, a lawyer in Portland,
Ore., and the pro bono counsel of Surviving Spouses Against Deportation, a
nonprofit advocacy group. ''It's welcome, but it's not a permanent fix. It's a
Band-Aid.''

Mr. Renison said the order gave him and his fellow advocates ''breathing room''
to continue lobbying Congress to act on two pending bills that would amend the
law to permit the review of immigrants' residency applications even if their
spouses die before the two-year mark.

The current federal interpretation of existing law is being litigated in at
least 19 court cases around the country.

In recent years, three federal appeals courts have ruled that an immigrant does
not cease being a spouse when the American partner dies during the processing of
a residency application, Mr. Renison said.

A federal appeals court -- which heard a case involving Osserritta Robinson, a
Jamaican immigrant whose husband died in the Staten Island ferry crash of Oct.
15, 2003 -- upheld the federal government's interpretation of the law in
February. Lawyers for Ms. Robinson are preparing an appeal to the  Supreme
Court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about a two-year freeze on deportations of
foreign widows and widowers of American citizens misstated United States law
regarding eligibility for permanent residency for foreign spouses of American
citizens. There is in fact no requirement that their marriage span  two years
before the foreign spouse is eligible. (The government has argued, however, that
the foreign spouse loses eligibility should the American spouse die within two
years of marriage and before immigration authorities have ruled on a petition
for residency.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 12, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant's Criminal Past Colors a Group's Legal Challenge to Detentions

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1231 words


The news media campaign was all set to go. There was even a Web site ready with
a sympathetic profile of Alexander Alli, 49, the man the American Civil
Liberties Union had chosen as the lead plaintiff in a lawsuit seeking custody
hearings for more than 1,000 legal immigrants long locked up while they
challenged the government's efforts to deport them on the basis of criminal
convictions.

But at the last minute someone at the civil liberties union checked the details
of Mr. Alli's criminal history. It turned out that Mr. Alli, a native of Ghana
whose wife and three children, all United States citizens, live in the Bronx,
had taken part in one of the biggest cases of identity theft in this country.

At least 30,000 people nationwide had been victimized in an intricate scheme by
a loosely knit ring of 30 people, mostly Nigerian immigrants, according to law
enforcement authorities and court documents. More than $50 million had been
drained from credit cards and bank accounts.

Oops.

Not a perfect poster boy. The press release and the Web site were scuttled, and
lawyers even considered dropping Mr. Alli in favor of a plaintiff whose offense
was less serious. But last month, the lawsuit went forward in his name --
without publicity.

The case shows the difficulties of making an important constitutional argument
on behalf of a not-always-sympathetic group: people battling deportation based
on past crimes. Maria Archuleta, a spokeswoman for the civil liberties
organization, called the original plan to showcase Mr. Alli a mistake, saying,
''We have learned a very hard lesson to more thoroughly check all of our
clients.''

Still, the lawyers said, his case illustrates the lawsuit's central argument:
that it is illegal for the government to lock someone up for months or years
without a hearing to determine if prolonged detention is justified.

''The facts aren't very sympathetic,'' Michael Tan, one of the lawyers involved
in the lawsuit, said of Mr. Alli's 2005 guilty plea to conspiracy to commit wire
fraud and related charges, for which he served two years in prison. ''But the
principle is still important. The crime is serious, but that in itself is not a
reason to say he can just be detained, willy-nilly, without due process.''

By definition, the detainees represented by the lawsuit are not the kind of
immigrants that advocates prefer to highlight. All have been convicted of a
crime that the government contends is legal grounds for deportation and for
mandatory detention until an immigration court determines whether they can be
sent back to their native lands.

But such crimes, which include violent felonies, can also be as minor as evading
a subway fare. All the detainees have already been punished, and many have a
legitimate claim to stay in the United States that can take months or years to
resolve. Meanwhile, they remain behind bars at taxpayer expense, advocates say,
often to the detriment of relatives who are citizens.

The lawsuit, filed on May 27 in federal court in Williamsport, Pa., as a habeas
corpus petition on behalf of detainees held in Pennsylvania, lists federal
immigration officials and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. as defendants.
Government officials said they could not comment on pending litigation.

The other plaintiff named in the lawsuit is Elliot Grenade, 48, who pleaded
guilty to selling a small amount of cocaine in 1995. His sentence was deferred,
but after failing to complete drug treatment, he eventually went to prison.
There Mr. Grenade completed drug treatment and took courses in electrical wiring
and drywall installation, he and his lawyers say.

But in the 20 months since his prison term ended, he has been in immigration
custody in Lords Valley, Pa., challenging the government's attempt to return him
to Trinidad and Tobago, a country he left 28 years ago and where he has no
family. His home, he says, is in Danville, Va., where his 9-year-old son and
11-year-old daughter live with his 82-year-old mother.

The suit contends that Mr. Alli and Mr. Grenade are neither flight risks nor
dangers to the community and could be released under supervision or electronic
monitoring. Such detainees face long delays as they challenge deportation.

When Mr. Grenade filed a petition with the Board of Immigration Appeals, the
board mistakenly sent a notice to a nonexistent address, then dismissed his
appeal because he did not respond in time. Only after he had spent 19 months in
custody did the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturn
that dismissal and reinstate his case.

Several Supreme Court decisions have found that immigration detention violates
the right to due process if it is not reasonably related to the purpose of
deportation. In one case, the Supreme Court ruled that mandatory detention is
permissible before a final order of deportation only for a ''brief period.'' In
another decision the court ruled that indefinite detention -- defined as more
than six months -- is constitutional after a final order of deportation only if
the detainee is considered dangerous.

Mr. Alli, who was at the margins of a fraud ring in which others drew much
longer prison terms, represents a particular public relations problem, Ms.
Archuleta said, because immigrant advocates have been striving to distinguish
lucrative identity fraud schemes like the one he joined from the use of Social
Security numbers randomly chosen by illegal immigrants seeking work.

Court documents tell the story of Mr. Alli's life before his fall as a familiar
tale of immigrant pluck, luck and hard work.

After coming to New York as a student in 1990, Mr. Alli won permanent residency
in the green card lottery. He delivered newspapers, studied for a real estate
license exam while driving a cab 12 hours a day, and finally opened a real
estate business in the Bronx with his wife. Court papers described them as
leaders in their church and devoted parents to their three American-born
children, the oldest a 17-year-old daughter who won a college scholarship.

Mr. Alli said he accepted an offer of stolen credit card reports from an
acquaintance when his business was struggling. He admitted to being personally
responsible for $70,000 to $120,000 of the multimillion-dollar losses to banks
and credit card companies. Besides his prison sentence, he was ordered to pay
$15 million in restitution at the rate of 15 percent of his wages each week.

In a letter to the sentencing judge, his criminal defense lawyer said Mr. Alli
was deeply remorseful and faced ''the very realistic possibility of being
deported.''

Instead, his wife, Rachel Mafos-Alli, is seeking a new green card for Mr. Alli,
this time as her spouse. Though his criminal record is a barrier, an immigration
judge recently determined that immigration law allows him to be considered for a
waiver; such a waiver would require his wife and children to show that his
deportation would cause them ''extreme hardship.'' But the wife's petition must
be processed first, which could take up to a year, the judge said.

Mr. Alli, who has already waited nine months at York County Prison, called his
past misdeeds ''inexcusable,'' but added in a court affidavit, ''I live every
moment of my life as an effort to redeem my soul, my good name and my moral
character in the eyes of my family and the greater community.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexander Alli with his family. The lead plaintiff in a lawsuit,
he was part of an identity theft ring.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 14, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Move Back Toward Due Process

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 387 words


Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. has served the cause of justice by reversing
a noxious last-minute order by the Bush administration that diluted the promise
of a fair hearing for immigrants facing deportation.

Just days before President Obama was elected, Attorney General Michael B.
Mukasey ruled that immigrants have no constitutional right to effective legal
representation in their deportation hearings. The change scrapped a 20-year
precedent in the handling of deportation hearings overseen by the Justice
Department. It denied the right to a re-hearing to immigrants who lose their
deportation proceedings because of the poor performance of an incompetent or
unscrupulous lawyer.

Because the Sixth Amendment right to a lawyer applies only in criminal cases,
and deportation is a civil action, the government is not required to provide a
lawyer to assist an indigent immigrant. That denial of counsel regularly results
in unfairness, and should be changed.

But the issue that confronted Mr. Holder was the tainting of removal proceedings
by the mistakes of a privately retained attorney. Removal actions have a
profound impact on an indivdual's liberty and suits for legal malpractice are
not a practical or satisfying remedy.

In a three-page order negating Mr. Mukasey's decision, Mr. Holder suggested that
it was improper to rush through such a major change in long-standing government
policy without thoroughly considering the views of all interested parties. Mr.
Holder also disagreed specifically with the notion of closing off one of the
most common avenues for appealing deportation decisions.

''The integrity of immigration proceedings depends in part on the ability to
assert claims of ineffective assistance of counsel,'' he  said in a statement.

Mr. Holder has instructed immigration judges and the Board of Immigration
Appeals to apply the legal standards in effect prior to Mr. Mukasey's mischief.
The Justice Department will review the law with an eye toward formalizing a
permanent new rule.

There was one unsettling contradiction in Mr. Holder's order, which appears to
leave Justice Department lawyers free to argue in deportation cases at the
federal appeals court level that there is no constitutional right to effective
lawyers for immigrants. The attorney general should correct that.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Drug War Inside the Government

BYLINE: By BRADLEY SCHREIBER.

Bradley C. Schreiber, the president of a government relations company, was a
senior adviser at the Department of Homeland Security from 2007 to 2009.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: Chevy Chase, Md.


THE Obama administration is taking aggressive measures to ensure that the drug
violence in Mexico does not spill over more than it already has into this
country. But a dispute between two federal agencies, if not remedied, will
seriously hamper these efforts -- and prevent thousands of experienced criminal
investigators from doing their utmost to secure our borders.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement is the largest investigative arm of the
Department of Homeland Security and, under current law, its agents can
investigate any crime with a connection to the American border, from weapons
trafficking to child pornography. Any crime, that is, except drug crimes. The
ability to investigate such crimes, known as Title 21 authority, rests with the
Drug Enforcement Administration, which is part of the Department of Justice.

The attorney general can and, under certain circumstances, does give other
federal agents the power to investigate drug crimes. But a longstanding dispute
with the D.E.A. severely limits the number of immigration and customs
enforcement agents who are given Title 21 authority. Right now, it's fewer than
1,500 of 6,000 or so agents.

During my tenure in the Department of Homeland Security, I worked directly with
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the D.E.A. on Title 21 authority. While
both sides claim there are several issues at play, based on my experience, the
dispute really boils down to concerns by the D.E.A. that another federal
department is encroaching on its turf.

While fears of ceding jurisdiction are not new to federal agencies, the worries
at the D.E.A. are groundless. The agency is second to none as the country's
primary drug investigation force. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, on the
other hand, is a multi-mission agency whose criminal investigation jurisdiction
will continue to be limited to offenses connected to the American border. The
immigration and customs enforcement agency does not have the capacity to take
over the D.E.A's role nor would it want to do so, given its other duties.

However, allowing Immigration and Customs Enforcement to handle drug
investigations at our borders, where it already has a significant presence,
would greatly strengthen our efforts to stop the flow of narcotics that fuels
the drug violence both here and in Mexico. It would also let the D.E.A. shift
its own resources to other domestic and international investigations.

This situation is all the more critical because the F.B.I. has severely reduced
its anti-drug efforts to concentrate on fighting terrorism and the Drug
Enforcement Administration's staffing levels have hardly increased in recent
years. If Immigration and Customs Enforcement were given Title 21 authority, the
United States would be able to add thousands of drug investigators immediately
-- and without spending any additional money.

Despite numerous efforts by the two agencies to reconcile their differences, too
much animosity exists for them to resolve this problem on their own. The best
solution is for Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, and Eric
Holder, the attorney general, to work out this dispute once and for all. While
Ms. Napolitano recently told the Senate that she has begun discussions with the
Justice Department, there is no indication that this issue will be resolved
soon.

Every day that goes by is another day we are at risk, and we can no longer allow
this interdepartmental dispute to contribute to that risk. By giving Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agents full and permanent Title 21 authority, the Obama
administration can help strengthen our border -- quickly, cheaply and
decisively.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words


An article on Wednesday about a two-year freeze on deportations of foreign
widows and widowers of American citizens misstated United States law regarding
eligibility for permanent residency for foreign spouses of American citizens.
There is in fact no requirement that their marriage span  two years before the
foreign spouse is eligible. (The government has argued, however, that the
foreign spouse loses eligibility should the American spouse die within two years
of marriage and before immigration authorities have ruled on a petition for
residency.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Green Cards, Belief and Betrayal At a Storefront Church

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1251 words


Word of the deal spread swiftly among Ecuadorean immigrants, along a robust
grapevine from New York City out to Long Island and into Westchester County. In
Peekskill, N.Y., a gas station worker named Henry Leon heard about it through a
friend of his wife's: The pastors of a storefront Pentecostal church in Corona,
Queens, had the inside track on a special allotment of green cards the
government had earmarked for church congregations.

Mr. Leon and his wife made the two-hour trip by train and subway to Corona to
meet with one of the two pastors, Gregorio Gonzalez. He told them that all they
had to do was to fill out a form and provide $8,000 each in cash and some
personal identification documents, Mr. Leon recalled. The green cards would be
ready in a month.

It seemed too good to be true. And it was, according to prosecutors in the
Queens district attorney's office.

Mr. Leon and his wife are among at least 120 illegal immigrants in the New York
region, most of them Ecuadoreans, who the authorities say were defrauded out of
a total of nearly $1 million by Mr. Gonzalez, 56, and two accomplices who were
arrested in March and April. The authorities say it was one of the region's
largest cases of immigration fraud in recent years.

Mr. Leon, 26, a Roman Catholic, still finds it hard to believe that a man of the
cloth would lie to them. ''For someone who talks so much about God,'' he said,
''why did he play people like that?''

Immigration fraud has become widespread as hucksters, many of them newcomers
themselves, take advantage of illegal immigrants desperate to legalize their
status yet hesitant to seek help from law enforcement agencies for fear of
deportation. Pastors accused of fleecing the faithful are nothing new, either:
In April, a former minister of a church in Forest Hills, Queens, and four others
were indicted on charges of swindling investors, many of them elderly or
disabled church members, of more than $9 million.

But the story of the Corona scheme suggests how especially insidious immigration
fraud may be when practiced by leaders of a church -- the institution that many
immigrants turn to for friendship and guidance in a foreign land.

The Rev. Brian Jordan, a Franciscan priest based in Manhattan who has worked
with immigrants and refugees for 26 years, said the victims in such cases are
caught in ''double jeopardy.''

''The people are being scammed, and what makes it worse is they're being scammed
by someone they trust, these so-called pastors,'' he said. Speaking of Mr.
Gonzalez, he added, ''This guy is no more a pastor than I am an astronaut.''

Immigrant advocates and law enforcement officials in New York and across the
country say that immigration-fraud schemes operating out of religious
institutions appear to be rare. But some may go unreported, given illegal
immigrants' suspicions of the government and the transience of many small,
independent churches.

Prosecutors say Mr. Gonzalez and Gerardo Bello, 21, set up their church, La
Iglesia Roca de la Salvacion Eterna, in the cellar of a brick house in Corona
early last year. The authorities said that it was unclear how large a
congregation the men had built, but that neither was ordained.

The services apparently took place in a large room where investigators said they
found about 30 folding chairs and notebooks containing handwritten hymns. One
immigrant who said she went to the church to confront Mr. Gonzalez said she
arrived during a service and saw no more than seven people in attendance.

Mr. Gonzalez, officials said, is an Ecuadorean immigrant, too -- in the United
States illegally and subject to deportation. He and Mr. Bello face charges of
grand larceny, fraud and possession of stolen property. Mr. Gonzalez's sister,
Maria Gonzalez, 52, is charged with grand larceny and possession of stolen
property. Their lawyers did not respond to telephone messages.

The Rev. Christian Santiago of the Rock of Salvation Church, a venerable
Pentecostal church in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., said Mr. Gonzalez began attending his
services about two years ago.

Soon afterward, Mr. Santiago recalled, Mr. Gonzalez started a Bible study group
in Corona. But Mr. Santiago said he distanced himself from Mr. Gonzalez when he
noticed that the other man was showing ''more interest in money than in
spiritual things.''

In interviews, 10 immigrants from five families said they learned about the
Corona pastors' offer in the spring of 2008. Several agreed to speak only if
their last names were not published, for fear that the defendants or their
relatives might seek revenge.

Many were not members of the church, but say they had heard about the pastors'
offer from relatives and friends. Maria, 47, an unemployed Ecuadorean living in
Corona, said she got word from her daughter, who was told by a friend whose
uncle was getting involved.

''We were so excited that we didn't really consider the consequences,'' Maria
said, adding that she and seven family members each paid Mr. Gonzalez $9,000.

Mr. Gonzalez, the immigrants said, told them versions of the same story: that
the federal government was holding a special lottery for 12,000 green cards
earmarked for churches around the country. But time was short, he warned, and
they would have to pay him a fee in cash, ranging from $6,000 to $10,000.

''It seemed so strange that it was so easy, but he convinced us,'' recalled
Viviana, 27, who lives with her husband and two children in Astoria, Queens.
''We were foolish.''

She and her husband, an auto mechanic, paid Mr. Gonzalez $16,000, she said,
draining their savings and borrowing money from her mother in Ecuador. Others
borrowed from friends or colleagues, most at high rates of interest.

But a month came and went, the immigrants said, and no green cards appeared.
When they pressed Mr. Gonzalez, they said, he told them the process would take
another few weeks. He had scheduled interviews for them at a federal immigration
office, they said, and gave them dates.

As those dates approached, the pastor said there had been more delays, owing in
part to the coming presidential transition. He rescheduled the appointments,
they said, and those, too, fell through.

Mr. Gonzalez used the language of piety to appeal for patience and tamp down
their suspicions, the immigrants said. ''He always said: 'Have faith. Where is
your faith?' '' recalled Margarita, 51, a devout Catholic who said she and nine
other family members paid Mr. Gonzalez a total of $80,000.

But as the months wore on, and some people began to demand their money back, Mr.
Gonzalez's language turned sinister, the immigrants said: he threatened to call
the authorities and have them deported. Several months ago, they said, Mr.
Gonzalez stopped answering their phone calls and closed the church.

Maria and her family were among the first to notify the district attorney's
office. Another group of immigrants was referred there by Father Jordan. Soon,
prosecutors say, they were deluged with calls.

Many of the immigrants say they find themselves in deep financial holes at a
time when work is scarce. Officials can offer only limited hope: Full
restitution for victims is often difficult in cases of economic fraud,
especially in immigration-related cases, which almost always involve cash
transactions.

But the hurt, witnesses said, has gone far deeper than the financial loss.

''We're simple people,'' said Margarita, tears spilling from her eyes. ''They
gave us the word of God.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''For someone who talks so much about God, why did he play
people like that?'' HENRY LEON An Ecuadorean who says he was assured by a man
who ran a Pentecostal church in Corona, Queens, that his immigration problems
would be resolved. (pg.A21)
 The site of a now-defunct church. Its pastors face charges of  grand larceny,
fraud and possession of stolen property. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Rules For Deportee On Custody

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Nebraska Supreme Court has ruled that the state acted improperly when it
terminated a Guatemalan woman's rights to her two American-born children after
she was detained on charges of falsely identifying herself to a police officer
and then deported.

The woman, Maria Luis, had immigrated to Grand Island, Neb., in 2004 and was
working in a local meat-processing plant a year later when social service
workers, acting on a tip, went to her house with a police officer to check on
whether she was properly tending to her severely ill daughter. Frightened that
she would be arrested on immigration charges, Ms. Luis told the officer she was
a babysitter.

She was arrested that day, after the police discovered the lie. Her daughter,
Angelica, 1 at the time, and her son, Daniel, who was 7, were placed with
protective services.

At that point, the State Supreme Court said in a ruling issued Friday, Ms.
Luis's parental rights under state juvenile law ''collided with the sanction
imposed on her by federal immigration law.'' Ms. Luis was deported without being
given an opportunity to appeal in state court for custody of her children.

It is unclear how many children share the predicament of Angelica and Daniel,
who remained in the United States and have lived in three foster homes, though
lawyers and advocates for immigrants say that cases are popping up across the
country as crackdowns against illegal immigrants leave thousands of children in
limbo. The court signaled as much in its ruling, saying the decision was aimed
at addressing the needs of children caught in the ''clash of laws, culture and
parental rights that occur when parents cross international boundaries.''

The court also said that parental custody of children is perhaps the ''oldest of
the fundamental liberty interests recognized by the United States Supreme
Court.''

The burden falls on the state, the court said, to make sure that parents facing
immigration charges receive the legal representation and guidance they need to
protect their rights to their children -- even in cases where the parent has
been deported.

The court pointed out, for example, that the authorities did not provide Ms.
Luis with adequate legal representation while she was in Nebraska. Her first
language is Quiche, a Mayan dialect, and her interpreters spoke Spanish. The
court faulted state authorities as failing to contact consular officials to
intervene on Ms. Luis's behalf. And, the court said, social workers failed to
provide her with proper guidance on how to recover custody of her children after
she was deported.

The state did not prove Ms. Luis was unfit, the court found. Instead, it said
the record showed that the state made no effort to reunify the family, largely
because social service workers ''thought the children would be better off
staying in the United States.'' State officials would not comment on the ruling.

It has been four years since Ms. Luis's children were taken away. She last saw
them in February 2008, when she came to the United States for a hearing. Ms.
Luis said she never gave up hope she would get her children back, and that she
could not wait to have them join her in Guatemala.

''I knew this day would come,'' she said. ''I asked God for it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2009 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Opening a Door to Young Immigrants

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 155 words


To the Editor:

Your editorial about the Dream Act and the doors that are currently closed to
undocumented young people (''Graduation Dreams,'' June 24) provided more
wrenching testimony about the waste of human potential fostered by our current
immigration policies.

The youth you describe and thousands of others like them in the United States
want to get on with their lives, finish their educations, get jobs and continue
to contribute to their adopted country. This worthy legislation will allow
law-abiding students to graduate, obtain meaningful employment and plan for the
future. They want to contribute to the only home they have ever known. These
children hold the keys to America's future and should not be denied their
dreams.

I trust that President Obama will put these deserving youth on the path to
brighter, legitimate futures.

C. Warren Moses Chief Executive The Children's Aid Society New York, June 26,
2009

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Murder Trial For Immigrant

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 126 words


An illegal immigrant accused of killing a San Francisco man and his two sons in
a drive-by shooting will stand trial for murder. Judge Teri Jackson said there
was sufficient evidence for the immigrant, Edwin Ramos, 22, to be tried for the
June 2008 killings. The police say Mr. Ramos, accused of being a member of the
MS-13 gang, opened fire on Tony Bologna, 48, and his sons, Michael, 20, and
Matthew, 16, in the middle of traffic. The younger victims may have been
mistaken for rival gang members. The shooting caused an uproar over a loophole
in San Francisco immigration policy that had allowed Mr. Ramos, a Salvadoran, to
stay in the United States even though he had been charged with violent felonies
as a minor. City officials have closed that loophole.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: Arrests In Raids On Street Gangs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 143 words


Federal immigration agents arrested dozens of gang members in days of raids
throughout Texas. Eighty street gang members were arrested in a five-day sweep
through Houston, Beaumont and Corpus Christi. Agents also arrested 52 gang
members and 14 of their associates in a six-day operation in the Dallas-Fort
Worth area, federal immigration officials said. The joint operation between
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and federal, state and local law enforcement
officers was part of a national initiative focusing on transnational street
gangs, said Gregory Palmore, an ICE spokesman. The North Texas operation sought
foreign-born gang members and their associates. They included people born in
Mexico, El Salvador, Honduras and Laos. People without gang affiliations and
United States citizens wanted on warrants and criminal violations also were
arrested.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Portrait of Ellis Island, and Tabloid Fodder

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BOOKSHELF IMMIGRATION AND
SCANDAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 565 words


ANYONE with a stake or even a fleeting interest in the overhaul of the nation's
immigration policies should read Vincent J. Cannato's ''American Passage: The
History of Ellis Island'' (HarperCollins, $28).

Mr. Cannato has written a compelling account of the federal inspection station
in New York Harbor, which, for about the next 30 years starting in 1892, was the
gateway to the United States for 80 percent of the nation's immigrants.

He avoids familiar generalizations to humanize the experiences of the nearly 12
million people who made it to America through Ellis Island (the first, Annie
Moore, lived and died on Manhattan's Lower East Side); the relatively few (about
2 percent) who were turned away because of questions about their health,
self-sufficiency or morals; the inspectors who imposed those life-and-death
judgments on hundreds of immigrants daily; and the politicians who, he argues,
regardless of ideology, largely agreed that some degree of regulation was
necessary, though they differed about how much.

Mr. Cannato, who teaches history at the University of Massachusetts in Boston,
reminds readers that Ellis Island was a place primarily for the poor. While
first-class passengers disembarked at the Hudson River piers, second-class and
steerage immigrants were ferried back  to Ellis Island for inspection.

And he pointedly shows that nativist claims are nothing new, recalling the late
19th-century fear-mongering that Jews and Italians would ''mongrelize'' America.

The story of Ellis Island, and of Castle Garden at the tip of Manhattan before
it, is ultimately a story of a nation's growing pains, of how a tiny outpost in
New York Harbor that the anarchist Emma Goldman once pronounced a ''dump'' was
transformed into an idealized ''New Plymouth Rock.''

The author writes that he wanted to call his book ''A History,'' not ''The
History'' of Ellis Island. Maybe no book can be definitive, but Mr. Cannato's
comes close.

Benjamin Feldman's juicy ''Call Me Daddy: Babes and Bathos in Edward West
Browning's Jazz-Age New York'' (the Green-Wood Historic Fund/New York Wanderer
Press, $25) captures in delicious fashion the philandering real estate magnate
in all his buffoonery.

''To Edward West Browning, a relationship with a woman was no different than
fancy-looking furniture,'' Mr. Feldman writes. ''If you wanted it, you bought
it, and then you used it until you tired of it, or it collapsed under your own
weight.''

What the 51-year-old Manhattanite wanted most of all was 15-year-old Frances
Heenan, known as Peaches, a shop clerk from Washington Heights. They met on
March 5, 1926, were married a little more than a month later, and less than a
year after that became embroiled in a matrimonial battle that would launch a
thousand tabloid headlines.

''America chortled incessantly at old Daddy Browning, a figure from Greek
tragedy, babbittry-clad,'' Mr. Feldman writes in his slim, easily digestible
account. ''Deep down, though, chords were struck, eternal peals of melancholic
laughter.''

If you can't get enough of Peaches, Michael M. Greenburg's ''Peaches and Daddy:
A Story of the Roaring 20s, the Birth of Tabloid Media and the Courtship That
Captured the Heart and Imagination of the American Public'' (The Overlook Press,
$26 ) is three times as long. It's peppered with titillating court transcripts
and even more profound conclusions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PASSAGES: Immigrants at Ellis Island awaiting a ferry to the
city.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Piecing Together a Life That U.S. Immigration Refused to See

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Margot Williams contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1550 words


When the 43-year-old man died in a New Jersey immigration jail in 2005, the very
fact seemed to fall into a black hole. Although a fellow inmate scrawled a note
telling immigrant advocates that the detainee's symptoms of a heart attack had
long gone unheeded, government officials would not even confirm that the dead
man had existed.

In  March, more than three years after the death, federal immigration
authorities acknowledged that they had overlooked it, and added a name, ''Ahmad,
Tanveer,'' to their list of fatalities in custody.

Even as the man's death was retrieved from official oblivion, however, his life
remained a mystery, The New York Times reported in an April article on the case
that pointed up the secrecy and lack of accountability in the nation's
ballooning immigration detention system. Just who the man was and why he had
been detained were unknown.

Yet  at the end of a long trail of government documents and interviews with
friends and relatives in New York, Texas and his native Pakistan, there was his
name, ''Ahmad, T.,'' still listed last week on the tenants' buzzer board at the
Eldorado, an apartment building in Flatbush, Brooklyn, where he had lived for
years. And the tenant list itself -- Jones, Nadler, Mahmud, Fong, Quinones --
testified to the long history of American immigration that he had tried so hard
to join.

Tanveer Ahmad, it turns out, was a longtime New York City cabdriver who had paid
thousands of dollars in taxes and immigration application fees. Whether out of
love, loneliness or the quest for a green card, he had twice married American
women after entering the country on a visitor's visa in 1993. His only trouble
with the law was a $200 fine for disorderly conduct in 1997: While working at a
Houston gas station, he had displayed the business's unlicensed gun to stop a
robbery.

It would come back to haunt him. For if Mr. Ahmad's overlooked death showed how
immigrants could vanish in detention, his overlooked American life shows how
9/11 changed the stakes for those caught in the nation's tangle of immigration
laws.

In the end, his body went back in a box to his native village, to be buried by
his Pakistani widow and their two children, conceived on his only two trips home
in a dozen years. He had always hoped to bring them all to the United States,
his widow, Rafia Perveen, said in a tearful telephone interview through a
translator.

''He said America is very good,'' she recalled. ''When it comes to the treatment
of Muslims in the U.S., he had faith in the rule of law. He said, 'In America,
they don't bother anyone just for no reason.' ''

When immigration agents burst into Mr. Ahmad's two-room Flatbush apartment on
Aug. 2, 2005, they were looking for someone else, his friends say -- a roommate
suspected of violating his student visa by working. But they ordered Mr. Ahmad
to report to immigration headquarters in Manhattan on Aug. 11.

He went, and was delivered in shackles to the Monmouth County Correctional
Institute in Freehold, N.J. His Texas misdemeanor had popped up in the computer
as an offense involving a deadly weapon -- reason enough, after 9/11, for
authorities to detain him pending deportation proceedings.

Like several million other residents of the United States, Mr. Ahmad occupied
the complicated gray zone between illegal and legal immigration. Though he had
overstayed his first visa, he had repeatedly been authorized to work while his
applications for ''adjustment of status'' were pending. Twice before 9/11 he had
been allowed back into the country after visits to Pakistan.

But the green card application sponsored by his Bronx-born wife, Shanise Farrar,
had been officially denied in March 2005, leaving him without a valid visa.
Although the couple could have reapplied, by the time he was arrested they had
not spoken in more than a year, and Ms. Farrar, who had received a letter
threatening a marriage fraud investigation, was unaware of his detention.

As she tells it, theirs was an intimate relationship ruined by 9/11. With
regret, she recalled her reaction: ''I was just cursing him. I was like, 'You
people come here and kill us and mess up our city.' He was trying to convince me
and prove to me that he's a good man, not those people.''

''I loved him,'' she added. ''It was just, once the World Trade Center came
down, I changed my mind.''

He was a natural immigrant, friends said, the fifth child in a poor but striving
family, the captain of his village school's victorious cricket team who grew
into a funny and generous adult. After his family arranged his engagement to his
cousin Rafia, he left to work in a brother's store in Saudi Arabia. But once he
visited New York, he had eyes only for the United States.

''His brother called him to come back,'' recalled Mohammad S. Tariq, 58, a cabby
whose Brooklyn apartment was Mr. Ahmad's first home in the city. ''But Tanveer
did not want to go back.''

Instead he followed a job to Texas. He worked the night shift at a gas station
that was robbed at gunpoint 7 times in 35 days, said the manager, Kathy Jean
Lewis -- who married him while she was battling thyroid cancer.

After her recovery, Mr. Ahmad made a three-month trip back to Pakistan, where he
wed his cousin in 1998. His marriage to Ms. Lewis, now 53, was annulled by a
Texas court in 1999.

She harbors no hard feelings. ''He was emotionally supportive when I was sick,''
she said, recalling how Mr. Ahmad took her to midnight dinners at her favorite
restaurant when she was undergoing radiation treatment. ''He just had a very big
heart.''

His second American wife, Ms. Farrar, tells a similar story.

They wed at the city clerk's office in Manhattan in July 2000, when Ms. Farrar
was a single mother struggling to support her young son as a car service
dispatcher, and they applied for a green card. She says she did not know he had
a wife in Pakistan, and she denies that hers was ''a paper marriage,'' as Mr.
Ahmad's Pakistani widow put it. Ms. Farrar, 36,  still speaks wistfully of
family outings to Six Flags Great Adventure and the Bronx Zoo.

Then came 9/11. ''Friends and family, ringing my phone -- 'You better watch it,
you maybe married a terrorist,' '' Ms. Farrar recalled, evoking a period when
hundreds of Muslim immigrants in New York were swept up on the strength of vague
suspicions. ''I would bring it to him. He was scared anybody was going to hurt
him.''

They patched things up before a November 2002 immigration interview, Ms. Farrar
said. But they flunked it -- the interviewing agent apparently doubted their
marriage was genuine -- and never appeared for the second-chance interview in
2003, Ms. Farrar said, because they had split up.

By the time Mr. Ahmad was taken in handcuffs to immigration court on Aug. 17,
2005, all he wanted was to return to Pakistan. He insisted on giving up his
right to contest deportation, even though he faced a 10-year bar on returning,
said Kenneth M. Schonfeld, an immigration lawyer hurriedly hired by Mr. Ahmad's
friends, all cabdrivers from Pakistan.

''He couldn't stand the thought of having to stay in custody,'' the lawyer said,
and he seemed ''really terrified'' of the Monmouth jail. ''It's a place that
would frighten or depress anyone.''

Three weeks later, Mr. Ahmad was dead. Since he had no known health problems,
his friends were shocked and disbelieving. They were told that Mr. Ahmad had
suffered a heart attack in the jail, and despite all efforts to revive him, had
been pronounced dead in a hospital emergency room at 5:51 p.m. on Sept. 9. An
autopsy cited ''occlusive coronary atherosclerosis.''

His friends did not know that the jail had a history of detainee complaints of
medical neglect and physical abuse, and did not allow guards to send detainees
to the medical unit without prior approval. Similar complaints have been made
about many detention centers, spurring the Obama administration to order a
review of the system.

According to the jail's internal investigation, Mr. Ahmad walked into the
medical unit shortly after 3:50 p.m. on Sept. 9 and ''was seen immediately.''
But the letter scrawled by a fellow inmate contended that before he showed up
there, Mr. Ahmad's pleas for treatment had been rebuffed by a guard for an hour.

Complaints about his death were filed with the Department of Homeland Security's
inspector general, documents show; the matter was passed for internal inquiry to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, with the notation that it need not report
back its findings.

By 2007, when the immigration agency compiled its first list of deaths in
immigration detention, under pressure from Congress and the news media, Mr.
Ahmad's death was not on it.

Yet if his death was not counted, his arrest was -- it had been added to the
agency's anti-terrorism statistics, according to government documents showing he
was termed a ''collateral'' apprehension in Operation Secure Commute, raids
seeking visa violators after the London transit bombings.

How his children will remember him is another matter. Without the money Mr.
Ahmad used to send, they had to move in with relatives far from his grave in
Pakistan. But his 10-year-old son clings to a souvenir, the widow said: ''He
keeps his father's photograph in his pocket.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rafia Perveen, above, Tanveer Ahmad's Pakistani widow, with
their daughter, Rohma. Top left, Mr. Ahmad at an amusement park with Shanise
Farrar, whom he married in 2000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALIXANDRA FAZZINA FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)(A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 13, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Immigration Non-Solutions

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 440 words


Here's a rerun we didn't want to see: President Obama's Department of Homeland
Security announced last week that it was pressing forward with -- and even
expanding -- old, bad Bush administration ideas about immigration enforcement.
The schemes were misguided, ineffective and dangerous then, and still are today.

On Friday, the Department of Homeland Security announced that it was expanding
its 287(g) program, which enlists local law-enforcement agencies to hunt illegal
immigrants, with 11 new partnerships across the country. The department also
announced steps to improve oversight of 287(g), which has been plagued by
reports of racial profiling and abuse -- particularly in Arizona, home state of
the Homeland Security secretary, Janet Napolitano. But Ms. Napolitano should be
deep-sixing this program, not tweaking or widening it.

Don't just take our word: many responsible police chiefs and sheriffs have
stoutly opposed having immigration duties outsourced to them. The Police
Foundation, a nonprofit research group, declared in a study in April that the
costs of 287(g) outweigh the benefits, not just because it strains budgets, but
also because it undermines community policing, which relies heavily on building
trust among those the officers serve and protect.

Turning local cops into immigration enforcers makes racial profiling more likely
while sending a chill through immigrant neighborhoods, where victims fear and
avoid the police and crimes go unsolved for lack of witnesses. As a police chief
in the report said: ''How can you police a community that will not talk to
you?''

If that weren't bad enough, the administration also announced last week that it
would continue the Bush-era practice of requiring federal contractors and
subcontractors to use E-Verify, a deeply flawed electronic system for checking
people's eligibility to work. Since its databases are full of mistakes, this all
but guarantees that citizens and legal residents will lose their jobs.

The federal government created huge problems by letting the immigration system
founder and fester, and President Obama inherited a bad enforcement system. But
the mess is not going to be cleaned up by making more local immigration posses
or by unjustly firing tens of thousands of innocent citizens and legal residents
just to get at undocumented immigrants.

Enforcement-only schemes were the rage back when anti-immigrant demagogues were
in full roar and Bush officials wanted to show how tough they were. They bring
us no closer to an immigration system that works. Mr. Obama promised fresh ideas
on immigration reform. So far we don't see them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 15, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Under Age and Alone, Immigrants See a Softer Side of Detention

BYLINE: By ANN FARMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1109 words

DATELINE: DOBBS FERRY, N.Y.


Jose was 14 when he left his home in Oaxaca, Mexico, and paid a smuggler $1,200
to sneak him across the border. He made it to Phoenix and started on a long and
familiar odyssey as he scratched out a living, first picking oranges in Florida,
then cooking in restaurants in Connecticut.

But his modest existence was upended in March after he was stopped for speeding
in Connecticut and the police discovered that he did not have a driver's
license. Eventually, officials determined he was in the United States illegally,
and he was taken into custody by the Department of Homeland Security. Because
Jose told a judge he was 21, he was held in an adult detention center in
Massachusetts.

After Jose's brother, with the help of the Mexican government, was able to prove
to immigration officials that Jose was just 17, he was transferred in April to a
shelter for immigrant youths in Westchester County.

Jose's case represents one of the thornier aspects of the immigration debate:
how to treat the roughly 7,200 unaccompanied minors apprehended in the United
States each year.

Jose, whose last name was withheld because of his age, was detained at the
Children's Village in Dobbs Ferry, one of 41 facilities across the country
contracted by the Department of Health and Human Services to hold unaccompanied
minors until they are either allowed to remain in the United States or are
deported. (Jose ultimately returned to Mexico voluntarily.)

Despite an alarm system and locks, conditions in the Tudor-style bungalow at the
Children's Village where young detainees live are a vast improvement,
immigrants' advocates say, over the federal detention centers where such
unaccompanied minors used to be held.

The housing of young detainees in the same places as adults, often without
access to education, proper medical care or translators, led to a class-action
lawsuit in 2001. As a result, Congress in 2003 shifted responsibility for
unaccompanied minors from immigration officials to the Office of Refugee
Resettlement, part of Health and Human Services.

Besides separating minors from adults, the office has established standards for
accommodating minors  in less restrictive settings, while providing a variety of
social services. Among other things, Homeland Security officers are required to
take any unaccompanied minor they apprehend to a juvenile facility, usually
within 24 hours.

The new procedures have created some tension between Health and Human Services
and Homeland Security, which believes that law enforcement standards should
apply equally to all illegal immigrants, no matter their ages.

The Justice Department ultimately determines if  unaccompanied minors are
allowed to stay, ruling on whether they qualify for special immigrant juvenile
status because they have been abused, neglected or abandoned and need long-term
foster care. Such  status can lead to a green card, which permits permanent
residence in the United States.

Some supporters of strict enforcement of immigration laws are critical of the
juvenile green cards and say parents in other countries must be discouraged from
sending their children to the United States illegally.

Detainees at Children's Village spend their days in cheerful rooms painted in
vibrant hues of pink and green and decorated with potted plants. On a recent
visit, the smell of bacon being cooked by the staff wafted from the kitchen.
''It's almost like home,'' Jose said in an interview before he went back to
Mexico. When he was not exercising or on field trips on the woodsy 180-acre
campus, he studied English, history and social studies.

''The rule of law doesn't have to be meanspirited,'' said Jeremy C. Kohomban,
president and chief executive of Children's Village. ''If nothing else, the way
we treat them inspires them about how we practice the rule of law.''

Founded in 1851 as a charity to provide shelter for orphaned and homeless
children, Children's Village started a coeducational facility for unaccompanied
minors in 2004 in Queens and three years later opened a boys-only residence in
Dobbs Ferry, where it has other programs for youngsters.

When illegal immigrant youths arrive. they are often disoriented and frightened,
Children's Village officials said. Some have been scooped up during workplace
raids, while others have been picked up along the Mexican border and taken north
because they have relatives in New York who may sponsor them while their future
is sorted out.

''I have seen terrible traumas,'' said Steven Alba, who manages the program for
unaccompanied minors at Children's Village, recalling a boy whose leg was so
badly burned as he crossed the border in a vehicle that he required a skin
graft.

''We feed them immediately,'' Mr. Alba said. They are also given clothes and
toiletries, undergo a medical evaluation and watch a video explaining their
legal rights. A social worker collects phone numbers of any family members. ''We
start putting the puzzle together about the child and his options,'' Mr. Alba
said.

Abigail Cushing, a lawyer with Catholic Charities who works with the detainees
at Children's Village, said, ''Kids need to be treated humanely regardless of
their immigrant status in the U.S.''

One of the youngsters at Children's Village, a 17-year-old from Guatemala, said
he came to the United States when he was 13 to escape family abuse.

His illegal status was uncovered in April after the police in the western New
York community of Jamestown came to his aid when he was being beaten by
strangers. He told the authorities that he was over 18, which led to his being
held in a detention center in Pennsylvania where he was given a blanket and
slept on a concrete block.

''Each place they brought me, they just asked me questions and I just answered
them,'' said the teenager, whose name was withheld because of the abuse
accusations involving his family. ''I thought maybe they would let me go.''

After establishing his true age, he was sent to Children's Village. ''I realized
when I came here that I was going to be better,'' he said, though he added,
''The days are sad because I don't know what's going to happen.''

Jose said he decided not to press his case, in part because if he lost he knew
it would make it even harder for him to return to the United States legally.
Besides, he said, ''I miss my mom and my grandmom.''

''What I would tell other Mexican kids is that life is hard in the U.S.,'' he
added. ''You don't have your mother and father to support you. If you don't
work, you don't eat. When you're old enough to know what you're doing, you can
come. But some kids don't want to listen.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Albert Munoz teaching English at the Children's Village, a Dobbs
Ferry, N.Y., shelter for minors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 19, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Story to Open a Door to America

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON THE RECORDS PAPER SON; Pg.
8

LENGTH: 536 words


IN the 1990 movie ''Green Card,'' Gerard Depardieu's character is deported
because he cannot recall, under questioning by immigration agents, the type of
skin cream his American-born wife likes. In real life, many immigrants adopting
new identities have prepared for their encounters with the authorities with
elaborate study aids.

Few of the aids survived -- ''you were supposed to throw the cheat sheet
overboard,'' said Nancy Shader of the National Archives and Records
Administration in New York.

But the archives have a small brown notebook with hand-lettered Chinese
characters, long overlooked, that belonged to a man who entered the United
States in 1923. Under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, merchants, students,
clergy members and performers generally qualified for admission to the country,
but unskilled laborers were less welcome, so many Chinese portrayed themselves
as children of people here legally. The notebook was found among the papers of
Chung Fook Wing, which led the authorities to suspect he was the  ''paper son''
of a man named George Sing, who was born in Yonkers.

''The paper son system was devised after the exclusion law passed in 1882,''
said Cynthia Lee, the chief curator for the Museum of Chinese in America, in
Chinatown. ''To be a paper son was something you didn't advertise. A lot of
times your own children might not have known the story. There are folks half a
generation older than me who tell me that, 'yeah, I'm a Chin, but I'm actually a
Wong,' and they know this once their fathers reveal that was the family
history.''

The 50-page notebook is made of coarse sheets bound with string, eight of them
filled. According to translators hired by The New York Times, it contains 53
questions and answers about Mr. Chung's lineage and life in Gow Low How village,
in the Hoi Ping district in southern China. Among the questions: How many
siblings and children did he have? What were the names of his teachers, in-laws
and great-grandmother? Where was his mother from?

Mr. Chung's notebook was found in 1941 at an opium den in Lyndhurst, N.J., after
he had been arrested in New York for drug possession. It was turned over to the
federal immigration authorities; it is unclear what happened to Mr. Chung.
ALISON LEIGH COWAN

An annotated version of the notebook is at nytimes.com/cityroom, where readers
may  provide additional information about Mr. Chung.

In Case They Ask: A Self-Quiz Questions and answers found in a notebook possibly
used to help prepare Chung Fook Wing to convince immigration officials that he
was the child of a legal United States resident: QUESTION NO. 3: How old are
you? ANSWER: I am 25 years old (May 2, 1898). NO. 8: Had you seen your father
before? Only saw him when I was 3. NO. 12: How many children do you have? Two
boys, one girl. NO. 28: When did your grandfather come to the United States?
When he was a teenager. NO. 36: Where was your grandmother born? New York. NO.
37: When did your grandfather die? About 20 years ago. Buried in Los Angeles.
NO. 44: Which direction does your house face? East. NO. 47: When did you leave
home? June 2, 1923. NO. 48: When did the ship leave? June 8. NO. 49: When did
the ship arrive? July 13.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE COVER: The top five characters signify that Chung Fook
Wing's notebook was created in Year 12 of the Republic of China (1923). The next
two spell out ''New York'' phonetically, since there is no standard way of
writing English names. The last two characters in the column refer to
''Customs'': for many years, the United States Customs Service helped enforce
the exclusion laws because most immigrants arrived by ship.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY
NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION)  MAP: ORIGINS: The notebook said
Mr. Chung was from a village in Hoi Ping, a southern China district.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Says Immigration Agents Broke Laws and Agency Rules in Home Raids

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 846 words


Armed federal immigration agents have illegally pushed and shoved their way into
homes in New York and New Jersey in hundreds of predawn raids that violated
their own agency rules as well as the Constitution, according to a study to be
released on Wednesday by the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law.

The study by the school's Immigration Justice Law Clinic, backed by several law
enforcement experts including Nassau County's police commissioner, found a
widespread pattern of misconduct by agents from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement after analyzing 700 arrest reports obtained from the agency through
Freedom of Information lawsuits.

The raids were supposed to focus on dangerous criminals, but overwhelmingly
netted Latinos with civil immigration violations who happened to be present, the
study said. Raiders mistakenly held legal residents and citizens by force in
their own homes while agents rummaged through drawers seeking incriminating
documents, the report said.

Acting without judicial search warrants, the agents were required to obtain
informed consent from a resident before they entered a private residence. But
the study found that in 86 percent of the Nassau and Suffolk County arrest
reports that it analyzed, and a quarter of the New Jersey cases, no consent was
recorded.

''If any local law enforcement agency in the nation were involved in these types
of widespread constitutional violations it would prompt a federal
investigation,'' said Lawrence W. Mulvey, the Nassau police commissioner, who
led a panel that guided the Cardozo report. ''Federal immigration agents simply
need to play by the same rules as every other law enforcement officer.''

Immigration and Customs Enforcement responded with a brief e-mail statement
defending the conduct of its agents and the home raids -- the same kind of
response it has made to similar criticism since the Bush administration vastly
expanded their use in 2006.

In 2007, Mr. Mulvey sharply criticized raids that brought scores of agents from
around the country to Long Island, some brandishing shotguns, and rousted many
citizens and legal residents from their beds in what Nassau officials called a
poorly planned antigang operation.

The report said a similar ''cowboy mentality'' emerged in many other raids. In
Paterson, N.J., last year, legal residents from Guatemala and their 9-year-old
son, a United States citizen, were threatened with guns by immigration agents
who had entered their home while the boy's mother was in the shower.

In a Staten Island case, an immigration judge recently ruled that the conduct of
agents acting without a warrant was an ''egregious violation'' of fundamental
fairness; they had entered a man's bedroom armed with pistols, ''forced him into
the hall and required him to stand in his underwear before his brother,
sister-in-law and their children.''

In an e-mail message obtained under a Freedom of Information request, a federal
immigration agent in Connecticut invited a state trooper to join a scheduled set
of raids in New Haven, writing: ''We have 18 addresses -- so it should be a fun
time! Let me know if you guys can play!''

The report also found a strong suggestion of racial profiling in the difference
between the ethnicity of the named targets -- 66 percent Latino -- and of the
''collateral'' arrests -- 87 percent Latino in New Jersey and 94 percent on Long
Island.

Such concerns have surfaced repeatedly around the country in news articles and
lawsuits since 2006, when the Bush administration raised the arrest quota of
each raiding team eightfold, to 1,000 a year.

Six months into the Obama administration, with the same spokesmen in place from
the Bush years, Immigration and Customs Enforcement responded to the Cardozo
report with a general defense of its agents.

''The men and women of I.C.E. are sworn to uphold the laws of our nation,'' the
agency said in an e-mailed statement. ''We do so professionally, humanely and
with an acute awareness with the impact enforcement has on the individuals we
encounter. While I.C.E. prioritizes our efforts by targeting fugitives who have
demonstrated a threat to national security or public safety, we have a clear
mandate to pursue all immigration fugitives.''

The Cardozo report said that Janet Napolitano, secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security, had changed some policies that contributed to the abuses it
found, like eliminating the arrest quota. But the report recommended more
drastic steps.

Home raids should be ''a tactic of last resort, reserved for high-priority
targets,'' and then only after agents have obtained judicial warrants, the
report urged. A high-level supervisor should be on site, and home raids should
be videotaped, it recommended.

Agents should have to  note why they initially seized and questioned any person,
the study said. ''That's the bread and butter of any arrest report,'' said Peter
L. Markowitz, who teaches at Cardozo and is one of the report's authors. Such a
note was missing from two-thirds of the arrest reports analyzed in the study.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about a study that found that federal
immigration agents had conducted illegal raids on homes in New York and New
Jersey referred incorrectly in some editions to a 2006 increase in the arrest
quota for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The quota was raised in January
of that year to 1,000 a year for each raiding team -- not for each agent.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


An article on Wednesday about a study that found that federal immigration agents
had conducted illegal raids on homes in New York and New Jersey referred
incorrectly in some editions to a 2006 increase in the arrest quota for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The quota was raised in January of that
year to 1,000 a year for each raiding team -- not for each agent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Gates Faults U.S. on Data Privacy and Immigration

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, India


In a far-ranging speech on Friday, Bill Gates criticized the American
government's policy on immigration and data privacy, predicted giant leaps in
technology in the near future and explained why he had to shut down his Facebook
page.

''Over the next decade, the entire way we interact'' with computers will change,
Mr. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, told hundreds of government officials and
information technology executives in New Delhi. Mr. Gates spoke of cellphones
that would recognize people around them or be used to test for diseases,
computers equipped with voice recognition and an Internet that was used for much
more than Web pages.

While the recession has been a ''big deal,'' it has not slowed innovation, he
said, in part because countries like India and companies like Microsoft are
investing in education and research for a new generation of computer scientists.

Microsoft is angling to work on India's national identity card project, Mr.
Gates said, and he will be meeting with Nandan Nilekani, the minister in charge.
Like Mr. Gates, Mr. Nilekani stopped running the technology company he helped to
start, Infosys, after expanding it into one of the biggest players in the
business. He is now tasked with providing identity cards for India's 1.2 billion
citizens starting in 2011. Right now in India, many records like births, deaths,
immunizations and driving violations are kept on paper in local offices.

Mr. Gates was also critical of the United States government's unwillingness to
adopt a national identity card, or allow some businesses, like health care, to
centralize data-keeping on individuals.

''It has always come back to the idea that 'The computer knows too much about
you,' '' he said.

The United States ''got off to a bad start'' when it comes to using computers to
keep data about its citizens, he said.  Doctors are not allowed to share records
about an individual patient, and virtual doctor visits are banned, he said,
which ''wastes a lot of money.'' The United States ''had better come up with a
better model'' for health care, he said.

He was also critical of  Congress's stance on immigration, and said he would
like to see immigration exceptions for ''smart people.'' Canadian laws are more
favorable, he said, because they allow immigrants to work if they are offered a
high-paying  job. Microsoft has created ''a lot of jobs in Canada for that
reason,'' he said.

Asked whether he ever ''unplugs,'' abandoning e-mail messages, computers and his
cellphone entirely, Mr. Gates laughed and said ''I'm not a 24-hour technology
person.'' He said he read a lot ''and sometimes not on a screen.'' He added that
he was not big on text messaging. ''All these tools of technology let us waste
our time if we're not careful,'' he said.

Mr. Gates said the buzzwords ''social networking'' applied to something that had
been around for a long time  --  a way to communicate with numerous people at
the same time.

He acknowledged that he once had a Facebook page, but every day ''ten thousand
people tried to be my friend.'' He said he spent too much time trying to decide
''Do I know them? Don't I know them?'' Ultimately, he said, ''I had to give it
up.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Racist Web Posts Traced To Homeland Security

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 693 words


After federal border agents detained several Mexican immigrants in western New
York in June, an article about the incident in a local newspaper drew an
onslaught of vitriolic postings on its Web site. Some were racist. Others
attacked farmers in the region, an apple-growing area east of Rochester,
accusing them of harboring illegal workers. Still others made personal attacks
about the reporter who wrote the article.

Most of the posts were made anonymously. But in reviewing the logs of its
Internet server, the paper, The Wayne County Star in Wolcott, traced three of
them to Internet protocol addresses at the Department of Homeland Security,
which oversees border protection.

Homeland Security started an investigation into the posts this month, according
to the reporter, Louise Hoffman-Broach, and Richard M. Healy, the Wayne County
district attorney. A spokeswoman for the federal agency's inspector general said
she could neither confirm nor deny an investigation; department rules prohibit
the use of office equipment for the personal transmission of material that could
offend fellow employees or the public.

Coming on the eve of the apple harvest season, the Web posts and the
investigation -- first reported this week on The Star's Web site -- have
ratcheted up longstanding tensions in Wayne County, where farmers and laborers
have accused immigration officials of using heavy-handed tactics like racial
profiling and arbitrary or unjustified detentions.

Such tactics, the farmers say, have scared Hispanic farmworkers from the region
just as growers are preparing for the harvest.

Representative Dan Maffei, who represents the area in Congress, said the
allegations of overaggressive immigration enforcement, coming from a wide range
of constituents, were ''of extreme concern.''

''I'm investigating these reports to make sure that people's rights aren't being
harmed and that the economy of Wayne County is not being harmed,'' said Mr.
Maffei, a Democrat.

A. J. Price, a regional spokesman for United States Customs and Border
Protection, defended the work of the area's officers. ''We are constantly
criticized for doing our job, and that's just part of our job,'' Mr. Price said.

Local officials and residents say that beginning about 2006, federal officials
stepped up their enforcement of immigration laws in western New York.

Farmers and other residents said the push created a climate of fear in
communities whose economies depend on migrant laborers, many of them illegal
immigrants.

The Obama administration has moved to a less confrontational policy at work
sites, focusing on employers. But Customs and Border Protection, which does not
conduct work-site inspections, had not changed its strategy in New York, Mr.
Price said.

The latest flare-up began with a boat trip on June 12. A local farmer, Robert
Norris, decided to take a Mexican employee and relatives of another worker for a
spin on Lake Ontario, Ms. Hoffman-Broach said.

Federal agents stopped the boat because it had too many people on board, Mr.
Price said. When some of the passengers were unable to produce documentation
proving they were citizens or legal immigrants, he said, they were detained. All
but one was eventually released, The Star reported.

The article about the arrests, posted on June 16, led to a torrent of angry Web
postings. One, sent from a fake e-mail address, said, ''watcha doing to mi
wifey, no checky her papeles. she no legal, but she havey benifit card.''

A response, which carried a Homeland Security Internet protocol address, read:
''That sounds like my boyfriend. Leave him alones and get your own. My boyfriend
works sometimes but he is really good at getting FREE benefits from the Federal
and State government.''

Another post, apparently sent from a separate computer linked to Homeland
Security, read in part: ''These farmers have a problem because the gravy train
that they were riding for soooooo long is being brought to light.''

The newspaper removed the posts. It also reported that it had discovered others,
dating to last year, that appeared to have come from computers affiliated with
Homeland Security.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 26, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words


International

CARTEL VIOLENCE IN MEXICO

Spreads Despite Crackdown

More than two years after the Mexican government launched its war against drug
cartels, the crackdown has, in some places, only made life more dangerous.  Page
6

IRAQI KURDS CAST BALLOTS

Voters in Iraq's semiautonomous Kurdistan region voted in local presidential and
parliamentary elections as a hunger for political reform clashed with a desire
to maintain stability. Turnout was high and voting was extended. Page 10

FOR SARKOZY, AN IMAGE SHIFT

President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who seems to represent a kind of modern
politician, is deeply aware of image. In yet another shift, he is refashioning
himself as an intellectual.  Page 6

URGING RELEASE OF DETAINEES

Iran's opposition leaders appealed to the top clerics to push for the release of
protesters and activists who they say have been tortured following last month's
disputed presidential election.  Page 6

GRAFT HITS BACK IN INDONESIA

Indonesia has won praise for combating graft in recent years. But the powerful
institution credited with that progress is now threatened by fierce opposition.
Page 11

National

FAULTING AN EFFORT TO DEPORT

Illegal Immigrants

The Obama administration is vastly expanding a federal effort begun under
President George W. Bush to identify and deport illegal immigrants held in local
jails. But in Houston, where the effort got a trial start eight months ago,
people on both sides of the immigration debate have found fault with it.  PAGE
12

RESPITE FOR HOMELESS VETS

Stand Down, an annual three-day tent city in San Diego, provides respite and aid
to former members of the armed forces whose lives have collapsed.  PAGE 12

Metropolitan

THE DEATH AND LIFE

Of an Enfant Terrible

The death of Dash Snow, a prominent 27-year-old downtown artist, was not unlike
his abbreviated life: a violent, jumbled collage of high and low.  METROPOLITAN,
PAGE 1

GAMES AND CHARACTER

The Lake Delaware Boys Camp is celebrating its 100th anniversary of providing
boys, many from impoverished families, with five free weeks of rural respite,
with a dose of character building. Summer Rituals. METROPOLITAN, PAGE 10

Sports

5 FORMER HUSKIE STARS RETURN TO CONNECTICUT

Sue Bird, Swim Cash, Asjha Jones, Diana Taurasi and Charde Houston were back in
Connecticut for the W.N.B.A. All-Star Game. That meant nearly a quarter of the
constellation of stars at the event came from one marquee program. PAGE 6

TORONTO'S TOWERING ACE

The days before Friday's nonwaiver trade deadline are critical for the Toronto
Blue Jays and their All-Star right-hander Roy Halladay, whom the moribund Blue
Jays are considering trading away.  PAGE 1

AVOIDING THE DEEP END

As the FINA world championships get under way in Rome, and the butterflys grow
more frenzied in swimmers' stomachs, the members of United States Swimming team
may rely on visualization techniques to calm their nerves and achieve optimal
performances. PAGE 1

Obituaries

ALAN G. DAVENPORT, 76

He devised ways to gauge the effects of wind on tall structures, then applied
his expertise to some of the world's biggest buildings and longest bridges. PAGE
20

Sunday Business

AFTER MANY PLOT TWISTS,  UNCERTAIN END TO G.M. TALE

Government officials, lawyers, financial experts and many others worked for
months to turn around General Motors. But it is not yet clear whether all the
work -- and the $50 billion poured in by taxpayers -- will pay off. PAGE 1

MOZILLA'S FRIEND TURNS FOE

Mozilla, which makes the Firefox Web browser, is adjusting to the competition it
faces from its longtime ally and patron: Google. PAGE 1

Creative 'Cash Earnings' 1

Art & Leisure

A SUDDEN FINALE  FOR SOME BALLET DANCERS

The emotions among 11 members of the New York City Ballet who joined the ranks
of laid-off workers nationwide are especially acute. More than many other
workers, ballet dancers define themselves by their profession. PAGE 1

REALITY TV KEEPS IT REAL

For all the glamour of reality television, the picture is quite different behind
the camera. Doneen Arquines, a segment producer for the Bravo show ''Top Chef
Masters,'' learned that quickly. PAGE 1

A Love Interest Breaks Type 1

Magazine

AT OBAMA'S SIDE

Valerie Jarrett is one of President Obama's most influential advisers. But her
exact role remains vague. PAGE 30

THE BATTLE OVER A BABY

A lesbian couple can be foster parents to older children. But they have to fight
to adopt a newborn. And the laws on same-sex parenting are murky or nonexistent.
PAGE 38

Radovan Karadzic's Adventure 24

Book Review

LESS THAN ZERO

Losing a frostbitten limb is not enough to make it into Bill Streever's
''Cold.'' Now, if there's a spoon bonded to the corpse's stump, that's another
story. PAGE 1

Travel

NEW LIFE FOR MADRID BAZAAR

A delicate balance of commerce and fashion, tourism and daily life the
long-dormant Beaux-Arts Mercado San Miguel has reawakened, like a city-market
phoenix, after a multi-year restoration.  4

36 Hours: Martha's Vineyard 9 Sunday Styles

JUST ONE STAR IN THIS HOUSE

Celebrities are embracing the Obama White House, but it is careful not to look
as if it is hugging back. On this stage, they're all supporting actors.  PAGE 1

Everyone Gazes at Jupiter's Bruise 1

Week in Review

NEW CREATURES, NEW LOSSES

Two figures are on the rise: the number of new species being identified, and the
number of species disappearing forever. Antithetical as they may seem, the data
sets are in many ways intertwined. PAGE 1

The New Elite Is Unlike the Old 1

Editorial

HEALTH CARE REFORM AND YOU

As the health care reform bills move through Congress, many crucial decisions on
coverage and financing have yet to be made. But the general direction of the
legislation is clear. And the great majority of Americans -- those with
insurance and those without -- would benefit. Week in Review, PAGE 9

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 27, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Run Amok

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 441 words


Federal immigration squads with shotguns and automatic weapons forcing their way
into citizens' homes without warrants or lawful consent, shoving open doors and
climbing through windows in predawn darkness, pulling innocent people from their
beds, holding groggy occupants at gunpoint, taking people away without
explanation -- after invading the wrong house.

This is a true account of the depths to which the Bush administration sank in
its twilight, when immigration enforcement was ramped up to a feverish extreme.

The details are in a report released Wednesday by the Immigration Justice Clinic
of the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law. It describes a campaign of illegal
home invasions waged by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents from 2006 to
2008 on Long Island and in New Jersey. The report, written by a panel led by
Lawrence Mulvey, the police commissioner of Nassau County on Long Island,
examined 700 arrest records obtained through Freedom of Information lawsuits,
and found a shameful pattern of abuses.

The raids were supposed to be a hunt for gang members and other dangerous
criminal fugitives, but two-thirds of those arrested were happenstance targets
-- Latinos with civil immigration violations. Although agents lacked judicial
warrants, and thus could not legally enter private homes without a resident's
informed consent, they routinely did so anyway -- in 86 percent of the Long
Island cases studied and 24 percent of those in New Jersey. And while ICE was
legally required to have reasonable suspicion before detaining and questioning
anybody, in two-thirds of arrest reports studied, no explanation for the initial
arrest was given.

It hardly needs saying that the raids were tactical failures as well as moral
outrages. Three days of raids in Nassau County, for example, netted only 6 of 96
targets. Commissioner Mulvey and the Nassau county executive, Tom Suozzi,
fiercely denounced the raids at the time as reckless, lawless and dangerous --
ICE agents, they said, were flagrantly undisciplined, to the point of mistakenly
drawing weapons on county police officers. The Cardozo report powerfully
confirms their judgment.

The Department of Homeland Security, under Secretary Janet Napolitano, says it
has been trying to undo the worst excesses of Bush-era immigration enforcement.
It should hasten to adopt the Cardozo report's recommendations, including no
home raids except as a last resort to catch dangerous fugitives; no raids
without judicial warrants; videotaping of  agents in action, and retraining them
on procedures; beginning an inspector general's investigation to see how far the
abuses spread.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 29, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Rejects Changes in Detainee Rules

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1001 words


The Obama administration has refused to make legally enforceable rules for
immigration detention, rejecting a federal court petition by former detainees
and their advocates and embracing a Bush-era inspection system that relies in
part on private contractors.

The decision, contained in a six-page letter received by the plaintiffs this
week, disappointed and angered immigration advocacy organizations around the
country. They pointed to a stream of newly available documents that underscore
the government's failure to enforce minimum standards it set in 2000, including
those concerning detainees' access to basic health care, telephones and lawyers,
even as the number of people detained has soared to more than 400,000 a year.

The Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the immigration detention
system, a conglomeration of county jails, federal centers and privately run
prisons, concluded ''that rule-making would be laborious, time-consuming and
less flexible'' than the review process now in place, Jane Holl Lute, the
agency's deputy secretary, said in the letter.

The department maintained that current inspections by the government, and a
shift in 2008 to ''performance-based standards'' monitored by private
contractors, ''provide adequately for both quality control and accountability.''

The administration's letter met a 30-day deadline set by Judge Denny Chin of
Federal District Court in Manhattan. Judge Chin ruled last month that the
agency's failure to respond to the plaintiffs' petition for two and a half years
was unreasonable.

The government's decision ''disregards the plight of the hundreds of thousands
of immigration detainees,'' said Paromita Shah, associate director of the
National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild, one of the
plaintiffs, which contends that the lack of enforceable rules is at the heart of
persistent problems of  mistreatment and medical neglect. ''The department has
demonstrated a disturbing commitment to policies that have cost dozens of
lives.''

The plaintiffs had expected better from the Obama administration, said Dan
Kesselbrenner, the project's director.

But Matt Chandler, a spokesman for Homeland Security who served in the Obama
campaign, put a different face on the rejection of rule-making.

''The rule-making process can take months, if not years,'' he said in an
e-mailed statement, ''and the administration believes that reforming our
immigration detention system needs to happen much faster than that.'' A special
adviser on detention to Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security,
''is engaged in a top-to-bottom review'' of the detention system, he said, and
will release her recommendations soon.

In a telephone interview, the adviser, Dora Schriro, said Immigration and
Customs Enforcement had made changes in recent years ''in an effort toward
continuous improvement.''

''What's appreciably different about this administration is the recognition that
detention and alternatives to detention are disciplines, and can and will be
carried out under the most professional of standards,'' Dr. Schriro said.

But standards without teeth are doomed to fail, said lawyers for two other
national immigration law organizations, one in Los Angeles and another in
Chicago, echoing the plaintiffs' disappointment with the rejection of
enforceable rules.

Both groups recently won the release of thousands of pages of detention
inspection documents that had been kept secret. They said the documents showed
that the government had routinely violated its own minimum monitoring standards
and ignored findings of deficiencies for years.

The ''performance-based'' standards the Obama administration has now embraced
have no penalties and are not significantly different from what failed in the
past, said Karen Tumlin, a lawyer with the National Immigration Law Center in
California. On Tuesday, the center issued what it called ''the first nationwide
comprehensive report'' on violations of detention standards, based on  records
from 2004 and 2005 obtained through Freedom of Information litigation.

Dozens of more recent inspection documents, some from this year, show a similar
pattern, said Chuck Roth, the director of litigation for the Chicago group,
Heartland Alliance's National Immigration Justice Center. Many were posted by
the government itself on the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Web site after
the center won a three-year federal court battle to force their release.

''The groups that ICE commonly contracts with are staffed by former ICE
employees and former corrections officers who have a vested interest in pleasing
ICE,'' Mr. Roth said, ''so we haven't seen them take the useful watchdog role.''

The documents include eight years of monitoring reports by the American Bar
Association, which has been granted access to detention centers and detainees
only on condition that its findings, shared with the government, are not made
public.

Reports from two bar association visits to the Elizabeth Detention Center in
Elizabeth, N.J., in January 2006 and July 2007, illustrate the weaknesses. In
2006, the team noted detainee complaints about medical neglect and threats of
physical violence that were reported to guards but ignored.

A year and a half later, a return visit was cut by the center to two hours from
six hours, and ''inexplicably, many of the areas that the delegation had
requested to visit in advance and needed to see in order to fulfill its mission
were locked'' and off limits.

The delegation was unaware that only two months earlier a 52-year-old tailor
named Boubacar Bah had died after suffering a skull fracture in the jail and
being locked in an isolation cell without treatment for more than 13 hours.

''This whole detention system that has been created is a human rights
nightmare,'' said Mary Meg McCarthy, executive director of the  National
Immigrant Justice Center. ''The past administration created this, and now we
need to dismantle it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detained and Abused

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 371 words


One toxic remnant of one of the Bush administration's failed wars -- the one on
illegal immigrants -- is immigration detention. Wanting to appear tough, Bush
officials cobbled together, at great speed and expense, a network of federal
centers, state and county lockups and private, for-profit prisons. They needed
lots of beds to warehouse the tens of thousands of people its raiders and local
police were flushing out of the shadows.

The results were ugly. As we learned from reports on the secretive system,
particularly those by Nina Bernstein in The Times, detainees were locked up and
forgotten. They were denied access to lawyers and their families. They
languished, sickened and died without medical attention.

On Tuesday, the National Immigration Law Center issued the first comprehensive
report on abuses in a system that holds about 30,000 on any given day and more
than 300,000 a year. It found ''substantial and pervasive violations'' --
ignored for years -- of the government's own minimal monitoring requirements.

The next day, immigrant advocates issued a report containing the testimonies of
detainees in a privately run detention center in rural Basile, La., where
immigrants are waging the latest of several hunger strikes to get their
grievances resolved. They say they have pleaded for access to medicine, lawyers,
their families and basic information about their cases. They lack underwear and
soap. Rats, spiders, flies and filth are rampant.

Sadly, President Obama's Department of Homeland Security rejected a petition in
federal court to enact legally enforceable standards for the treatment of
immigrant detainees. Instead, the administration is sticking with a Bush-era
system that relies in part on private contractors for quality control, even
though those outside monitors are often former federal immigration agents.

Senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York have
introduced bills to force the department to adopt legally enforceable rules,
with real penalties, for detention centers. Mr. Obama and his homeland security
secretary, Janet Napolitano, did not create the system, nor is six months enough
to take it apart. But at some point that work must begin.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 7, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detention Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 460 words


The Obama administration on Thursday announced major steps to overhaul
immigration detention. It is good news, considering how bad the system has
gotten, having grown quickly and without oversight into a sprawling network of
ill-managed prisons rife with reports of abuse, injury and preventable death.

The head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, John Morton, said he wanted to
turn immigration detention, which holds about 32,000 people a day, and 400,000 a
year, into a ''truly civil detention system,'' one focused on safely and
humanely holding people accused of civil immigration violations until they are
deported or released. The current conglomeration of private, for-profit lockups
and state and county jails is run more like a system to warehouse and punish
dangerous criminals, which immigration violators overwhelmingly are not.

The announced reforms include creating offices and advisory boards to focus on
medical care and the management of centers, reviewing contracts with private
prisons and local jails, and installing managers at the 23 largest centers to
make sure complaints are heard and problems fixed. Centers will face random
inspections. Community groups and immigrant advocates will  be invited to offer
advice and comment. And the government will stop sending parents with children
to a notorious prison near Austin, Tex., as it seeks alternatives to the
Bush-era tactic of putting whole families behind bars.

It is past time to impose accountability and oversight on a system that puts
little children in prison scrubs, that regularly denies detainees basic needs,
like contact with lawyers and loved ones, like soap and sanitary napkins. It is
a system where people who are not dangerous criminals by any definition get
injured, sick and die without timely medical care.

It is not clear yet how soon the changes will be felt. Nor is it evident whether
the new systems of accountability within the federal bureaucracy will allow for
adequate outside scrutiny, as new complaints and violations emerge. It is not
clear what this means for continuing outrages, like those documented by
immigrant advocates at a center in Basile, La., where detainees have waged
hunger strikes to get their grievances heard.

For all that, it is hard not to be encouraged by the changes that Mr. Morton
outlined this week. They could be the first steps in a long journey away from
insanity. We will never finally get there, of course, without a wholly reformed
immigration system -- one that has enough visas for workers to enter legally,
one that allows the undocumented to pay their debt to society and live openly as
neighbors and citizens. In a system like that, it will become utterly
unnecessary to catch and lock up 400,000 people a year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 12, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Treasure On Paper Goes Public

BYLINE: By JANIE LORBER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration files containing a wealth of information collected by American
border agents, some of it dating from the late 19th century, will be opened to
the public soon and permanently preserved, providing intriguing nuggets about
such famous immigrants or visitors as Alfred Hitchcock and Salvador Dali.

But to millions of Americans, the real treasure will be clues about their own
families' histories in the photographs, letters, interrogation transcripts and
recordings that reflect the intense scrutiny faced by those trying to enter the
United States during an era when it waged two world wars and adopted
increasingly restrictive immigration policies.

Under an agreement signed this year, the files, on some 53 million people, will
be gradually turned over by the Department of Homeland Security to the National
Archives and Records Administration, beginning in 2010. The material, accounting
for what officials describe as the largest addition of individual immigration
records in the archives' history, will be indexed and made available to anyone.

At present, members of the public typically gain access to the documents, known
as the Alien Files, by submitting a Freedom of Information Act request. But that
is a cumbersome process that can take months to produce documents -- and even
then only photocopies, not originals -- and, says Jeanie Low, a private
consultant to family historians, deters many amateur genealogists unfamiliar
with navigating government bureaucracy.

That is how Thelma Lai Chang obtained the 103-page file detailing immigration
officials' interviews with her father, who immigrated from China as a
12-year-old in 1922. Under the Chinese Exclusion Act, most Chinese were then
barred from entering the United States, and her father used a fake identity,
claiming to be the son of a family already in the country.

''I cried because these are real documents,'' said Ms. Chang, who keeps a copy
of her father's Alien File in her desk drawer at her San Francisco home. ''All
these years my dad used to talk about how he came, and this is proof to me of
what he went through. I mean, all these questions for a little kid.''

The decision to preserve the files is a victory for historical and immigrant
groups that had been concerned because federal regulations permitted the
government to destroy them once they were 75 years old.

The files contain a trove of information for historians of all fields. The file
on Dali, for example, the Spanish Surrealist who fled to the United States at
the onset of World War II, contains more than 40 pages of travel documents.

But the material will be particularly significant to the descendants of
persecuted immigrants like Jews who fled Europe before World War II.

''For so many of us, this is all that exists,'' said Rodger Rosenberg, whose
great-grandparents escaped pogroms in Eastern Europe at the turn of the century.
''So much was lost.''

The public demand for access to government records like these has been fueled by
Web sites, including Ancestry.com and Footnote.com, that have made it easier for
people to do research even if they have no formal genealogical background.

''Before, it was just microfilm, constantly microfilm, going through hours of
microfilm,'' said Adele Macher of Baltimore, who has been researching her
family's Italian roots for 17 years. Once started, the research becomes almost
an addiction, Mrs. Macher said as she pored over a copy of her great-aunt's
Alien File, obtained under the Freedom of Information Act.

''This is like really putting a puzzle together,'' she said, ''and every piece
that you find you want to find the next piece and the next piece and the next
piece.''

Perhaps most exciting to researchers is that the files, which they will be able
to see at the  regional archives in San Bruno, Calif., and Kansas City, Mo.,
contain the original documents. Some include artifacts like wallets, 45-r.p.m.
records and detailed maps that prospective immigrants drew by hand at the border
to prove claims about where they came from.

''The bottom line is that you want as many original documents as possible,''
said Schelly Talalay Dardashti, who writes Tracing the Tribe, a Jewish genealogy
blog. ''Each time something is written down, there is a chance of something
getting screwed up. Each time a document is transcribed, mistakes will be
made.''

Still, for many among a generation of immigrants who dodged the Chinese
Exclusion Act by inventing their heritage or spinning elaborate tales of lost
documentation, the accessibility is alarming. The exclusion act was repealed in
1943, but fears of deportation ran rampant in the 1950s, when, in the wake of
the Chinese Revolution, McCarthyism tore Chinese immigrant families and
communities apart.

Scarred by a period of what they recall as institutionalized racism, many aging
immigrants refuse to discuss the Alien Files. They are afraid, they say, that
lies told by young immigrants so many years ago and recorded in the files then
could result in deportation now.

But officials of the Homeland Security Department say the files will be used for
historical purposes, not law enforcement. Further, records will not be released
until the immigrant in question has died or turned 100, and the names of the
living will be redacted.

The files and immigration agents ''have always been seen as the enemy,'' said
Jennie Lew, spokeswoman for a coalition that pushed for the new agreement.
''We're trying to make this the silver lining of years of discrimination.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adele Macher, researching her Italian roots, used the Freedom
of Information Act to obtain a copy of the Alien File kept on her great-aunt
Laura D'Amario. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VERONIKA LUKASOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bollywood Star Detained at Newark Airport

BYLINE: Compiled by RACHEL LEE HARRIS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 144 words


Indian film stars and political leaders expressed anger on Sunday at what they
called the humiliating treatment of Shah Rukh Khan, right, the Bollywood star
who was detained for questioning by American immigration officials at Newark
Liberty International Airport on Friday, The Associated Press reported.
Immigration officials said that Mr. Khan was stopped for a routine examination
when his name came up on a computer alert list but that he was not ''formally
held.'' The officials also said that the examination, which lasted a little more
than an hour, would not have taken as long if his luggage had not been lost. Mr.
Khan told reporters in Chicago on Saturday that he thought ''it's a procedure
that needs to be followed.'' He was traveling while promoting his film, ''My
Name Is Khan,'' which explores the racial profiling of Muslims after Sept. 11,
2001.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Strong Words for U.S. From Bollywood Star

BYLINE: Compiled by Dave Itzkoff

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words


Shah Rukh Khan, below, the Indian film star detained by American immigration
officials at a New Jersey airport on Friday, criticized the United States in an
interview on Monday, Agence France-Presse reported. Mr. Khan, who is promoting
the film ''My Name Is Khan,'' which addresses the racial profiling of Muslims in
America after Sept. 11, 2001, told the Indian television channel CNN-IBN that
the United States did not lead ''an isolated, parallel-universe existence,'' and
that ''there is a whole world which makes all the good and bad that is
happening,'' according to Agence France-Presse. Mr. Khan added: ''So if we are
scared of violence and terrorism, all of us are responsible for it. It's not
that the world is and America is not.'' Mr. Khan was detained at Newark Liberty
International Airport after immigration officials said his name had come up on
an alert list.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 18, 2009 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Officials Say Fatalities Of Detainees Were Missed

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 637 words


More than one in 10 deaths in immigration detention in the last six years have
been overlooked and were omitted from an official list of detainee fatalities
issued to Congress in March, the Obama administration said Monday.

The administration added 10 previously unreported deaths to the official roster
and disclosed an 11th, which occurred Friday: that of Huluf Guangule Negusse, a
24-year-old Ethiopian. Mr. Negusse died from the effects of an Aug. 3 suicide
attempt in the Wakulla County correctional facility near Tallahassee, Fla.

What Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials call ''the death roster''
stands at 104 since October 2003, up from the 90 that were on the list the
agency gave to Congress this spring.

The latest search for records began late last month, officials said, when
Freedom of Information litigation by the American Civil Liberties Union
uncovered one of the 10 deaths that had gone unreported -- that of Felix
Franklin Rodriguez-Torres, 36, an Ecuadorean who settled in New York and died of
testicular cancer on Jan. 18, 2007, after being detained two months at an
immigration jail run for profit by the Corrections Corporation of America in
Eloy, Ariz.

On Saturday, after inquiries about that case by The New York Times, the new
chief of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, John Morton, issued a directive
for field offices to make sure that other deaths had not been overlooked, a
spokesman said.

David Shapiro, staff lawyer with the A.C.L.U. National Prison Project, said:
''Today's announcement is a tragic confirmation of our worst fears. Our nation's
immigration detention system has been plagued by a total lack of transparency
and accountability, and even with today's announcement there is no way we can be
fully confident that there are not still more deaths that somehow have gone
unaccounted for.''

Few details of the newly disclosed deaths were provided, but other than Mr.
Rodriguez and Mr. Negusse, all who died were Cuban nationals whose deaths
occurred from 2004 to 2006. Mr. Negusse died at Tallahassee Memorial Hospital,
officials said, after he was removed from life support on the recommendation of
a medical proxy.

The existence of undisclosed detention fatalities first came to light this
spring, when The Times reported the case of Tanveer Ahmad, 43, a Pakistani New
Yorker who had been held in a New Jersey immigration jail where a fellow
detainee said that Mr. Ahmad's symptoms of a heart attack had gone untreated
until too late.

The difficulty of confirming Mr. Ahmad's very existence showed that deaths could
fall between the cracks in immigration detention, the hundreds of county jails,
for-profit prisons and federal detention centers where about 400,000 people a
year are held while the government tries to deport them. Mr. Ahmad turned out to
be a longtime New York cabby who had overstayed a visa.

In April, an agency spokeswoman, Kelly Nantel, acknowledged that Mr. Ahmad's
death had been overlooked, but added, ''We believe we have accounted for every
single detainee death.''

Yet in records turned over to the A.C.L.U. in late July, lawyers for the group
said they were surprised to find yet another death that was not on the list
obtained by The Times under the Freedom of Information Act and published last
year on its Web site.

Previously, the only public documentation of such deaths had been pieced
together by relatives of the dead and their advocates; as recently as 2007, they
were aware of about 20 cases. Eventually the immigration enforcement agency
revealed that there had been 62 detention deaths since 2004 but declined to
provide names, dates, locations or causes until compelled to do so under the
Freedom of Information Act.

This month, the Obama administration announced a plan to revamp the detention
system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about people who have died in immigration
detention in the last six years referred incorrectly to the nationality of one
person on a list of 10 whose names had been omitted from a public roster of such
fatalities. The list showed one Mexican, one Ecuadorean and eight Cubans; it was
not made up of one Ecuadorean and nine Cuban nationals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 19, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bollywood Star Urges Fans To Halt Protests

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 144 words


After returning to his native India on Tuesday, the Bollywood star Shah Rukh
Khan said that  his detention by immigration officials at  Newark Liberty
International Airport had been blown out of proportion, but that he would limit
his future visits to the United States, The Associated Press reported. Speaking
to reporters, Mr. Khan said, ''Of course I will visit the U.S. if I have to go
for my work, but I will go less often,'' according to The A.P. He also asked his
fans to cease their protests. ''Let's put this behind us,'' Mr. Khan said,
''think positively and move ahead.'' The actor was detained on Friday for about
an hour at the Newark airport after United States immigration officials said
his name had come up on a routine alert list. He was promoting his film ''My
Name Is Khan,'' which addresses the racial profiling of Muslims after Sept. 11,
2001.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 19, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Washington: Immigration Charges

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NORTHWEST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 80 words


Federal prosecutors filed charges against a Bellingham company, Yamato Engines
Specialists, where 28 people were arrested in a February immigration raid,
saying the company knowingly hired illegal immigrants. Federal officials said
the workers used fake Social Security numbers and other counterfeit documents.
In July, federal officials began notifying businesses around the country of
plans to audit employment eligibility documents, signaling a tougher stance on
employers. (AP)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2009 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Hurdles Shown in Detention Reform

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; A. E. Velez contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 2020 words


In the fall of 2006, a man's death brought a team of government investigators to
the large, privately run immigration jail in Eloy, Ariz., in the desert between
Phoenix and Tucson. Medical care was so poor, the team later warned federal
immigration officials, that ''detainee welfare is in jeopardy.''

Another death there soon spurred another inquiry, and another scathing report
was issued about the care provided by the private company, the Corrections
Corporation of America.

But the government scrutiny did not add up to much for Felix Franklin
Rodriguez-Torres, 36, an Ecuadorean construction worker who wound up in Eloy
that fall as an unauthorized immigrant after being jailed for petty larceny in
New York City. By mid-December, a fellow detainee told the man's relatives, Mr.
Rodriguez lay pleading for medical help on the floor of his cell, unable to
move.

He died weeks later of testicular cancer, a typically fast-growing but treatable
disease, which had gone undiagnosed and untreated during his two months at Eloy,
which holds more than 1,500 detainees. And despite a high-level discussion of
his case among federal immigration officials while he was dying -- captured in
e-mail messages between Washington and Arizona -- his death on Jan. 18, 2007,
was not listed on the roster of detention fatalities that the agency produced
under pressure last year and updated in April.

His death, and the damning reports that preceded it, are coming to light now
only through a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit by the American Civil
Liberties Union. On Monday, after inquiries about Mr. Rodriguez's death by The
New York Times, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency added his name
and nine others to the public roster -- including another unrecorded detainee
death at Eloy, in 2005.

The Rodriguez case echoes many others that have spurred demands for an overhaul
of the troubled and expanding realm of immigration detention. But in its
details, it underscores the daunting challenge facing the Obama administration
as it tries to improve detention conditions, starting with greater oversight of
places like Eloy.

''The rampant problems of medical and mental health care aren't just going to go
away if there's more oversight,'' said David Shapiro, a lawyer with the
A.C.L.U.'s National Prison Project, which has called for legally binding rules
on conditions in immigration detention. ''There have to be consequences.''

The Corrections Corporation of America referred questions about Mr. Rodriguez's
case to the immigration enforcement agency, which is part of the Department of
Homeland Security.

Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the department, said the administration had
taken its first steps ''to improve medical care, custodial conditions, fiscal
prudence and ICE's critical oversight of the immigration detention system, and
we will find out why this death wasn't reported properly.''

The administration's long-term goal, announced this month as a
three-to-five-year plan, is a vastly different detention system, no smaller in
size, but less penal in character than the current sprawling mix of jail and
prison cells.

At the same time, however, Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security, is
expanding immigration enforcement. And for now, officials said they would
continue to rely on the same prison companies and county jails to house people
facing possible deportation for immigration violations.

In some ways, Mr. Rodriguez's case fits one of Ms. Napolitano's priorities:
detaining people accused of immigration violations who are already in jail for a
crime.

Records show that Mr. Rodriguez, who had entered the United States on a
visitor's visa in 1998 to represent Ecuador in a karate tournament, was
transferred to immigration authorities on Nov. 8, 2006, after serving five
months at Rikers Island. He had been accused of joining several other men in
robbing an acquaintance after a Saturday of soccer and beer in Corona, Queens.

Though he pleaded guilty to petty larceny, he maintained his innocence even on
his deathbed, said his father, Felix Rodriguez, a legal resident who has been a
deliveryman for a Manhattan jewelry company for 15 years.

''I understand a prisoner shouldn't be on a golden bed, but a prisoner is a
human being,'' the father said in Spanish. ''He at least deserves respect when
he is so sick he can't even eat.''

By the time the ailing detainee was taken to the emergency room at Maricopa
Medical Center in Phoenix, on Dec. 27, 2006, he had a mass in his neck that had
''tripled in size'' and obstructed his breathing, according to a government
accounting form summarizing his care. Too far gone for chemotherapy, he was soon
placed on life support, and he died when it was disconnected.

But even while he was dying, a draft synopsis of his case was already
circulating in Washington among high-level officials at the immigration agency.
It stated that the detainee had been seen by the Eloy medical staff ''on
numerous occasions,'' and first complained of a sore neck on Dec. 25. In their
exchanges about the case, officials did not question why the medical staff had
failed to recognize symptoms of cancer.

Just weeks earlier, the agency's own investigations had linked two Eloy deaths
to inadequate medical staffing by the Corrections Corporation, which was then
reaping record profits from stepped-up immigration enforcement.

''Medical care in this facility does not meet ICE standards,'' the first
investigating team wrote to John P. Torres, director of detention and removal
operations, after looking into the suicide of a 32-year-old Guatemalan detainee
there on Sept. 29, 2006. They noted that a sick call request from the
Guatemalan, Jose Lopez-Gregario, had been ignored for a week, even though he was
on suicide watch and known to be despondent.

The medical staff -- ''overwhelmed due to a sudden loss of veteran staff'' --
apparently assumed he had already been deported. Cut off from care in an
isolation cell and racked with guilt that he had left his family without enough
food, he hanged himself.

A second team assessed Eloy again after a 27-year-old Colombian was found
unconscious in an isolation cell there on Dec. 6, 2006; an ''unwitnessed
seizure'' left him brain-dead. The investigators not only found fault with the
way his case had been handled, but also documented systemic problems with the
administration of medical care -- in contrast to routine audits, in which Eloy,
like most detention centers, was typically rated ''acceptable'' on a checklist.

''The facility has failed on multiple levels to perform basic supervision and
provide for the safety and welfare of ICE detainees,'' the investigators wrote.

The Colombian, Mario Chavez-Torres, had shown symptoms of bleeding on the brain,
and should have been sent for outside evaluation, the report said; a week after
his written request for medical attention for ''headaches, dizziness and
vomiting,'' he collapsed in the shower.

A call for medical help by a guard was answered an hour later by a vocational
nurse who told the guard: ''I'm not qualified. To be honest, I'm just a
pill-pusher.'' That lone nurse on the night shift was responsible for
distributing medication to 300 chronically ill detainees in a population of
1,500, the report said.

The first report had warned that most of the seasoned medical staff left Eloy
that fall, months before a planned takeover of its medical unit by ICE's
Division of Immigration Health in 2007. But immigration authorities had
continued to send detainees to Eloy, and Mr. Rodriguez was amongthem.

To his sister Janneth Montesdeoca, who lives in Ozone Park, Queens, Mr.
Rodriguez, an athlete, seemed healthy until just before his transfer to
immigration authorities. On her last visit to Rikers, she noticed that his head
seemed swollen.

Considering his dire condition two months later, the swelling was most likely a
sign that cancer was blocking his lymph system, said physicians consulted for
this article, adding that it should have been caught in a full medical exam.
Both reports had noted that though all immigration detainees are supposed to get
a medical exam within 14 days of admission, timely exams were not being
performed at Eloy that fall.

Most testicular cancer is fast-growing, said Dr. David Weiner, a urologist at
St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, but even after spreading,
''it's a very treatable cancer in the vast majority of cases.''

In a phone call to his mother from Eloy on Dec. 18, 2006, Mr. Rodriguez said he
had seen the doctor there many times, complaining of coughing and fever. He
promised to telephone again at Christmas. When he did not, his worried family
repeatedly contacted his deportation officer, who kept assuring them that Mr.
Rodriguez was fine, said his brother-in-law, Leonardo Montesdeoca, a United
States citizen who is a software supervisor for the Metropolitan Transit
Authority.

As the family tells it, they learned the truth about a week after Mr. Rodriguez
had been taken to the hospital, in a call from a fellow detainee.

''He said Franklin was very, very sick,'' Mr. Montesdeoca said. ''They would
call the attention of the guards and they would just ignore, they would look the
other way. He got to the point where he didn't move anymore.''

Records show that on Jan. 12, 2007, the hospital told the detention company that
he had as little as a week to live. But his sister says the deportation officer
would not tell them where Mr. Rodriguez had been hospitalized. Instead,
relatives said, he offered to release the detainee to their care if they paid
for a plane ticket to New York -- a plan derailed, apparently, because the
patient was too sick to travel.

It was a phone call from Mr. Rodriguez that brought the family to his deathbed.
Against the rules, a nurse had lent him her cellphone.

''If it wasn't for her, I wouldn't have known if my son was dead or alive,''
said his mother, Maria Torres, who lives in Queens. ''I give thanks to that
nurse, even now.''

His face lit up when he saw his parents arrive the next day, Mr. Montesdeoca
said. They were able to speak for a few hours before the two detention guards at
his bedside cut off the visit. When the family returned the next morning, he was
in a coma. A few days later, they agreed to discontinue life support.

E-mail messages about his impending death had already ricocheted between
Washington and Arizona.

''Thanks for the advance notice,'' one official wrote from a BlackBerry after
receiving the draft synopsis on Jan. 17, and sending a copy on to John  Torres,
the director of detention and removal for the agency, and Gary E. Mead, the
deputy.

Dr. Gene A. Migliaccio, director of the agency's Immigration Health Services,
was asked ''to reach out to Phoenix'' and ''to ensure that proper protocols are
followed.'' One of his employees followed up by asking if anyone had the Eloy
medical records: ''When this detainee is taken off life support, may I get a
copy for my death chart?''

But there is no evidence that the medical records were ever collected. The death
was automatically referred to the immigration agency's Office of Professional
Responsibility in Washington, which simply sent it back to the Phoenix field
office for an internal management review. In March 2007, the matter was closed
after the local office filed its conclusions in three sentences: the detainee
had died of aggressive cancer, the matter had been handled appropriately, and
there was no evidence of negligence. The same month, a report by the Homeland
Security Department's inspector general on the death of the Colombian detainee
found no evidence of foul play or inadequate response.

But at least two more detainees died at Eloy in 2008 -- a 41-year-old Iraqi and
a 52-year-old man from Ghana.

Mr. Rodriguez's ashes were mailed to his mother, and when she visited relatives
in Ecuador, she carried them there for burial.

''I never want another immigrant to feel this pain,'' she said. ''Not knowing
what to do, his suffering and no way of getting him help.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man's Death in Private Immigration Jail Bares Difficulty of Detention Overhaul

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; A. E. Velez contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1791 words


In the fall of 2006, a man's death brought a team of federal  investigators to
the large, privately run immigration jail in Eloy, Ariz. Medical care was so
poor, the team later warned immigration officials, that ''detainee welfare is in
jeopardy.''

Another death there soon spurred another inquiry, and another scathing report
was issued about the care provided by the private company, the Corrections
Corporation of America.

But the government scrutiny did not add up to much for Felix Franklin
Rodriguez-Torres, 36, an Ecuadorean construction worker who wound up in Eloy
that fall as an unauthorized immigrant after being jailed for petty larceny in
New York City. By mid-December, a fellow detainee told the man's relatives, Mr.
Rodriguez lay pleading for medical help on the floor of his cell, unable to
move.

He died weeks later of testicular cancer, a typically fast-growing but treatable
disease, which had gone undiagnosed and untreated during his two months at Eloy,
which holds more than 1,500 detainees. And despite a discussion of his case
among top federal immigration officials while he was dying -- captured in e-mail
messages between Washington and Arizona -- his death on Jan. 18, 2007, was not
listed on the roster of detention fatalities that the federal agency,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement,  produced under pressure last year and
updated in April.

His death, and the damning reports that preceded it, are coming to light only
through a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties
Union.

On Monday, after inquiries about Mr. Rodriguez's death by The New York Times,
the immigration agency added his name and nine others to the public roster --
including another unrecorded death at Eloy, in 2005.

The Rodriguez case echoes many others that have spurred demands for an overhaul
of immigration detention. But in its details, it underscores the daunting
challenge facing the Obama administration as it tries to improve detention
conditions, starting with greater oversight of places like Eloy.

''The rampant problems of medical and mental health care aren't just going to go
away if there's more oversight,'' said David Shapiro, a lawyer with the
A.C.L.U.'s National Prison Project, which has called for legally binding rules
on conditions in immigration detention. ''There have to be consequences.''

The Corrections Corporation of America referred questions about Mr. Rodriguez's
case to the immigration agency, known as ICE, which is part of the Department of
Homeland Security.

Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the department, said the administration had
taken its first steps ''to improve medical care, custodial conditions, fiscal
prudence and ICE's critical oversight of the immigration detention system, and
we will find out why this death wasn't reported properly.''

The administration's long-term goal  is a vastly different detention system, no
smaller in size, but less penal in character.

At the same time, however, Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security, is
expanding immigration enforcement. And officials said they would rely on the
same prison companies and county jails.

In some ways, Mr. Rodriguez's case fits a priority of Ms. Napolitano's:
detaining people accused of immigration violations who are already in jail for a
crime.

Records show that Mr. Rodriguez, who had entered the United States on a
visitor's visa in 1998 to represent Ecuador in a karate tournament, was
transferred to immigration authorities on Nov. 8, 2006, after serving five
months at Rikers Island. He had been accused of helping rob an acquaintance
after a Saturday of soccer and beer in Corona, Queens.

Though he pleaded guilty to petty larceny, he maintained his innocence even on
his deathbed, said his father, Felix Rodriguez, a legal resident who has been a
deliveryman for a Manhattan jewelry company for 15 years.

''I understand a prisoner shouldn't be on a golden bed, but a prisoner is a
human being,'' the father said in Spanish. ''He at least deserves respect when
he is so sick he can't even eat.''

By the time the ailing detainee was taken to  Maricopa Medical Center in
Phoenix, on Dec. 27, 2006, he had a mass in his neck that had ''tripled in
size'' and obstructed his breathing, according to a government summary of his
care. He was  placed on life support, and  died when it was disconnected.

While he was dying, a draft synopsis of his case was already circulating in
Washington. It stated that he had been seen by the Eloy medical staff ''on
numerous occasions,'' and first complained of a sore neck on Dec. 25. In their
exchanges, officials did not question why the medical staff had failed to
recognize symptoms of cancer.

Just weeks earlier, the agency's own investigations had linked two Eloy deaths
to inadequate medical staffing by the Corrections Corporation, which was then
reaping record profits from stepped-up immigration enforcement.

''Medical care in this facility does not meet ICE standards,'' the first
investigating team wrote to John P. Torres, director of detention and removal
operations, after  the suicide of a 32-year-old Guatemalan detainee on Sept. 29,
2006. They noted that a sick call request from the Guatemalan, Jose
Lopez-Gregario, had been ignored for a week, even though he was on suicide
watch.

The medical staff -- ''overwhelmed due to a sudden loss of veteran staff'' --
apparently assumed he had already been deported. Cut off from care in an
isolation cell and racked with guilt that he had left his family without enough
food, he hanged himself.

A second team assessed Eloy again after a 27-year-old Colombian was found
unconscious in an isolation cell there on Dec. 6, 2006; an ''unwitnessed
seizure'' left him brain-dead.

''The facility has failed on multiple levels to perform basic supervision and
provide for the safety and welfare of ICE detainees,'' the investigators wrote.

The Colombian, Mario Chavez-Torres, had shown symptoms of bleeding on the brain,
and should have been sent for outside evaluation, the report said; a week after
his written request for medical attention for ''headaches, dizziness and
vomiting,'' he collapsed in the shower.

A call for medical help by a guard was answered an hour later by a vocational
nurse who told him: ''I'm not qualified. To be honest, I'm just a pill-pusher.''
That lone night nurse  was responsible for distributing medication to 300
chronically ill detainees among  1,500, the report said.

The first report had warned that most of the seasoned medical staff left Eloy
that fall, months before a planned takeover of its medical unit by ICE's
Division of Immigration Health in 2007. But authorities had continued to send
detainees to Eloy, and Mr. Rodriguez was among them.

To his sister Janneth Montesdeoca, who lives in Ozone Park, Queens, Mr.
Rodriguez seemed healthy until just before his transfer to immigration
authorities. On her last visit to Rikers, she noticed that his head seemed
swollen.

The swelling was most likely a sign that cancer was blocking his lymph system,
said physicians consulted for this article, adding that it should have been
caught in a full medical exam. Both reports had noted that though all
immigration detainees are supposed to get a medical exam within 14 days of
admission, timely exams were not performed at Eloy that fall.

Most testicular cancer is fast-growing, said Dr. David Weiner, a urologist at
St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, but even after spreading,
''it's a very treatable cancer in the vast majority of cases.''

In a phone call to his mother from Eloy on Dec. 18, 2006, Mr. Rodriguez said he
had seen the doctor there many times, complaining of coughing and fever.  When
he stopped calling, his worried family repeatedly contacted his deportation
officer, who kept assuring them that Mr. Rodriguez was fine, said his
brother-in-law, Leonardo Montesdeoca, a United States citizen who works  for the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

The family says they learned the truth about a week after Mr. Rodriguez had been
taken to the hospital, in a call from another  detainee.

''He said Franklin was very, very sick,'' Mr. Montesdeoca said. ''They would
call the attention of the guards and they would just ignore, they would look the
other way.''

Records show that on Jan. 12, 2007, the hospital told the detention company that
he had as little as a week to live. But his sister says the deportation officer
would not tell them where Mr. Rodriguez had been hospitalized. Instead,
relatives said, he offered to release the detainee to their care if they paid
for a plane ticket to New York -- a plan derailed, apparently, because the
patient was too sick to travel.

It was a phone call from Mr. Rodriguez that brought the family to his deathbed.
Against the rules, a nurse had lent him her cellphone.

''If it wasn't for her, I wouldn't have known if my son was dead or alive,''
said his mother, Maria Torres, who lives in Queens.

His face lit up when he saw his parents arrive the next day, Mr. Montesdeoca
said. They spoke for a few hours before the two guards at his bedside cut off
the visit.  The next morning, he was in a coma.

In the e-mail messages about his impending death, one official wrote from a
BlackBerry, ''Thanks for the advance notice,'' after alerting Mr. Torres, the
director of detention for the agency, and Gary E. Mead, the deputy.

Dr. Gene A. Migliaccio, director of the agency's Immigration Health Services at
the time, was asked ''to reach out to Phoenix'' and ''to ensure that proper
protocols are followed.'' One of his employees asked if anyone had the Eloy
medical records: ''When this detainee is taken off life support, may I get a
copy for my death chart?''

But there is no evidence that the medical records were ever collected. The death
was automatically referred to the immigration agency's Office of Professional
Responsibility in Washington, which simply sent it back to the Phoenix field
office for an internal management review.

In March 2007, the matter was closed when the local office filed its terse
conclusion: the detainee had died of aggressive cancer, and there was no
evidence of negligence. The same month, a report by the Homeland Security
Department's inspector general on the death of the Colombian detainee found no
evidence of foul play or inadequate response.

But at least two more detainees died at Eloy in 2008 -- a 41-year-old Iraqi and
a 52-year-old man from Ghana.

Mr. Rodriguez's ashes were mailed to his mother, and she carried them back to
Ecuador  for burial.

''I never want another immigrant to feel this pain,'' she said. ''Not knowing
what to do, his suffering and no way of getting him help.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Felix Franklin Rodriguez-Torres in a coma. His death in 2007
was unlisted in detention records.(COURTESY OF FELIX RODRIGUEZ)
 The detainee's father, Felix Rodriguez, in Queens, next to a photograph of his
son. ''A prisoner is a human being,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE
DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 23, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE WEEK AHEAD AUG. 23 - AUG. 29

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


Television

Ginia Bellafante

The immigration crisis is made intimate in the documentary ''WHICH WAY HOME,''
an official selection of the 2009 Tribeca Film Festival to be shown on HBO
(Monday, 9 p.m.). Directed by Rebecca Cammisa,  it follows migrant children from
destitute families in Latin America as they travel on the tops of freight trains
through Mexico trying to make their way to the United States. The conditions are
incredibly perilous, and for reasons beyond the obvious: gang violence,
including rape, is par for the course. But the subjects of Ms. Cammisa's
profile, who remain heartbreakingly optimistic in the face of so many negatives,
include children like Kevin and Fito, who fantasize about all the United States
has to offer, and Olga and Freddy, who are eager to join their parents and
siblings who have already made it across the border. Kevin, a 14-year-old from
Honduras, hopes to get a job in New York that will earn him enough to send money
back home to his mother.

Could you call ''NURSE JACKIE'' a treatise on the crisis in health care? Well,
not really, but this pungent Showtime series about a caring though drug-addicted
nurse has given  Edie Falco another strong platform as a wife and mother in
distress. The series concludes its first season on Monday (10:30 p.m.), leaving
many eager for more.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from ''Which Way Home,'' a documentary to be shown on
HBO.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MR. MUDD)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 29, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ohio: No Immigration Charges

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 67 words


Federal authorities say there will be no charges against a Chicago food company
whose southwest Ohio plant was the site of a major immigration raid in August
2007. Federal and local authorities rounded up 161 workers at the Koch Foods
poultry processing plant in Fairfield, most of whom were quickly deported. The
company's lawyer said there was no evidence that anyone at Koch knowingly broke
the law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 31, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Invisible Immigrants, Old and Left With 'Nobody to Talk To'

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2098 words

DATELINE: FREMONT, Calif.


They gather five days a week at a mall called the Hub, sitting on concrete
planters and sipping thermoses of chai. These elderly immigrants from India are
members of an all-male group called The 100 Years Living Club. They talk about
crime in nearby Oakland, the cheapest flights to Delhi and how to deal with
recalcitrant daughters-in-law.

Together, they fend off the well of loneliness and isolation that so often
accompany the move to this country late in life from distant places, some
culturally light years away.

''If I don't come here, I have sealed lips, nobody to talk to,'' said Devendra
Singh, a 79-year-old widower. Meeting beside the parking lot, the men were
oblivious to their fellow mall rats, backpack-carrying teenagers swigging energy
drinks.

In this country of twittering youth, Mr. Singh and his friends form a gathering
force: the elderly, who now make up America's fastest-growing immigrant group.
Since 1990, the number of foreign-born people over 65 has grown from 2.7 million
to 4.3 million -- or about 11 percent of the country's recently arrived
immigrants. Their ranks are expected to swell to 16 million by 2050. In
California,  one in nearly three seniors is now foreign born, according to a
2007 census survey.

Many are aging parents of naturalized American citizens, reuniting with their
families. Yet experts say that America's ethnic elderly are among the most
isolated people in America. Seventy percent of recent older immigrants speak
little or no English. Most do not drive. Some studies suggest depression and
psychological problems are widespread, the result of language barriers, a lack
of social connections and values that sometimes conflict with the dominant
American culture, including those of their assimilated children.

The lives of transplanted elders are largely untracked, unknown outside their
ethnic or religious communities. ''They never win spelling bees,'' said Judith
Treas, a sociology professor and demographer at the University of California,
Irvine. ''They do not join criminal gangs. And nobody worries about Americans
losing jobs to Korean grandmothers.''

The speed of the demographic transformation is leading many cities to reach out
to the growing numbers of elderly parents in their midst. Fremont began a mobile
mental health unit for homebound seniors and recruited volunteer ''ambassadors''
to help older immigrants navigate social service bureaucracies. In Chicago, a
network of nonprofit groups has started The Depression Project, a network of
community groups helping aging immigrants and others cope.

But their problems can go unnoticed because they often do not seek help. ''There
is a feeling that problems are very personal, and within the family,'' said Gwen
Yeo, the co-director of the Geriatric Education Center at the Stanford
University School of Medicine.

Many who have followed their grown children here have fulfilling lives, but life
in this country does not always go according to plan for seniors navigating the
new, at times jagged, emotional terrain, which often means living under a
child's roof.

Mr. Singh, the widower, grew up in a boisterous Indian household with 14 family
members. In Fremont, he moved in with his son's family and devoted himself to
his grandchildren, picking them up from school and ferrying them to soccer
practice. Then his son and daughter-in-law decided ''they wanted their
privacy,'' said Mr. Singh, an undertone of sadness in his voice. He reluctantly
concluded he should move out.

So when he leaves the Hub, dead leaves swirling around its fake cobblestones,
Mr. Singh drives to the rented room in a house he found on Craigslist. His could
be a dorm room, except for the arthritis heat wraps packed neatly in plastic
bins.

''In India there is a favorable bias toward the elders,'' Mr. Singh said,
sitting amid Hindu religious posters and a photograph of his late wife. ''Here
people think about what is convenient and inconvenient for them.''

Move to the Ethnoburbs

Sociologists call Mr. Singh and his cohort the ''.5 generation,'' distinct from
the ''1.5 generation'' -- younger transplants who became bicultural through
school and work. Immigrant elders leave a familiar home, some without
electricity or running water, for a multigenerational home in communities like
Fremont that demographers call ethnoburbs.

A generation ago, Fremont was 76 percent Caucasian. Today, nearly one-half of
its residents are Asian, 14 percent are Latino and it is home to one of the
country's largest groups of Afghan refugees (it was a setting for the
best-selling book ''The Kite Runner''). Along the way, a former beauty college
has become a mosque; a movie house became a Bollywood multiplex; a bank, an
Afghan market, and a stucco-lined street renamed Gurdwara, after the Gurdwara
Sahib Sikh Temple.

Reliant on their children, late-life immigrants are a vulnerable population.
''They come anticipating a great deal of family togetherness,'' Professor Treas
said. ''But American society isn't organized in a way that responds to their
cultural expectations.''

Hardev Singh, 76, and his wife, Pal Keur, 67, part of Fremont's large Sikh
community, live above the office of the Fremont Frontier Motel, its lone nod to
a Western motif a dilapidated wagon wheel sign.

They rented the fluorescent-lighted apartment after living for three years with
their daughter, Kamaljit Purewal, her husband, his mother and two grandchildren.
As the children grew, Mr. Singh and Mrs. Keur were relegated to the garage,
transformed into a room. As Mr. Singh said, ''in winter it was too much
cold.''(Ms. Purewal said that she ''tried to give them a better life,'' but felt
unappreciated because her parents favored her older brother in India. ''If
you're a happy family, a small house is a big house,'' she said. )

Fraught family dynamics when elderly parents move in with children often leave
older members without a voice in decision-making, whether about buying a house
or using the shower.

Pravinchandra Patel, the 84-year-old founder of the 100 Years Living Club,
intervened when he heard that the son in one family was taking his parents'
monthly Supplemental Security Income check, for $658, then doling out $20 for
spending money.

''I ask the son, 'How much money do you figure you owe your parents for your
education?' '' he said.

Crying, Not Smiling

Once a lush landscape of fruit trees and cauliflower fields, Fremont, 40 miles
south of San Francisco, is now the Bay Area's fourth-largest city, with voters
from 152 countries. Physical distances can be compounded by psychic ones: 13
percent of the city's immigrant seniors live in households isolated by language.
Theirs is a late-life journey without a map.

For the men in the 100 Years Living Club, the road leads to the Hub, where they
have been meeting for 14 years, since the Target store was a Montgomery Ward.
Mr. Patel, who was an herbal doctor in India, started the group after he noticed
his friends were in ''house prisons,'' as he put it, without even the confidence
to use a bus. The men keep their spirits alive by sharing homemade chaat snacks.
They are the lucky ones.

Two miles away, Zia Mustafa, an Afghan widow, sits at her kitchen table with its
plastic tablecloth, looking at a scrapbook with bright color postcards of
Turkmen girls in elaborate dress posed against an azure sky.

Mrs. Mustafa arrived here on a desolate emotional road. Her husband and eldest
son were killed by a rocket in Kabul; her son Waheed, now 24 and living with her
in Fremont, lost his leg in the attack. Other children remain in Afghanistan and
Pakistan.

''My family is divided in three,'' she said through a translator, weeping.

Waheed Mustafa, after surgery in Oakland, leads the life of a young man in his
20s -- going to school, working out, talking on his cellphone, hanging out with
friends.

Mrs. Mustafa, who was home-schooled in the Koran, spends her days watching
television soap operas, attempting to decipher stories through actors' facial
expressions. She sleeps with the lights on, worrying that even within these safe
white walls this son, too, will not come back.

''They come from a country where it takes so much to survive, yet they feel they
haven't done enough,'' said Dr. Sudha Manjunath, a psychiatrist who consults
with the city's mental health unit. ''To tell them now, 'It's time to take care
of yourself' -- well, they've never heard of such things.''

A recent health survey by Dr. Carl Stempel, a sociology professor at California
State University, East Bay, found that most Afghan women here suffer from
post-traumatic stress.

''I thought they would be so happy in this country -- all the houses, the food,
the cars,'' said Najia Hamid, who founded the Afghan Elderly Association of the
Bay Area, an outreach group for widows, with seed money from Fremont. ''But I
was met with crying.''

Young couples who need to work to support families have imported grandparents in
part to baby-sit. There is a misguided assumption that baby-sitting is
sustenance enough for the aging, said Moina Shaiq, founder of the Muslim Support
Network, which brings seniors together. ''We are all social beings. How much can
you talk to your grandchildren?'' Mrs. Shaiq said.

Small Things Matter

In 1965 changes to immigration policy allowed naturalized citizens to sponsor
the immigration of parents without quota restrictions. By 1996, a growing
perception that elderly immigrants were ''gaming the system'' -- that their
children were pledging to support them and then enrolling their parents in the
Supplemental Security Income and food stamp programs -- became an impetus for
welfare reform. Congress imposed a five-year waiting period for Medicaid and
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and restricted S.S.I. and food stamp
eligibility for adults.

Some states, including California and New York, have chosen to eliminate the
waiting period for Medicaid for lawfully residing immigrants, paying with state
money.

Michael Fix, senior vice president of the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonprofit center in Washington, said that as immigrants form a larger part of
the elderly population, ''all the issues that bear on health care and social
services will increasingly be transformed in part into immigrant issues.''

In 2007, according to census data, about 16 percent of immigrant seniors lived
below the poverty line, compared with 12 percent of native-born elderly, said
Steven P. Wallace, the associate director of the Center for Health Policy
Research at the University of California, Los Angeles. Another 24 percent of
immigrant elderly are ''the near-poor,'' he said, ''sitting on the edge of a
cliff.''

Kashmir Singh Shahi, 43, a former engineer who was born in India, is a volunteer
the Community Ambassador Program for Seniors, offering people like Hardev Singh
an attuned ear.

Mr. Singh, a retired driving instructor for the Indian army, is 76 and
determined to work full time. He takes two buses to work the night shift at a
gas station an hour away. ''I don't want to become idle in the heart,'' he said
matter-of-factly.

Mr. Singh had not been to a doctor in years, and Mr. Shahi helped him and his
wife apply for Medicare. Mr. Singh is also entitled to Social Security but will
not accept the additional assistance.

Mr. Shahi's experiences with his own parents have illuminated the way for his
clients. He came to the Bay Area in 1991 to work at a fiber optics company, and
he sponsored his parents six years later.

After his father died, Mr. Shahi changed careers so he could care for his
mother, who has suffered from depression.

She shares a room with her 12-year-old grandson, Kirat, improbably surrounded by
Iron Man and Incredible Hulk posters. In this affectionate setting, amid
decorations for her granddaughter's Sweet 16 party, the 84-year-old woman sat
quietly, blue slippers on her feet, her eyes cast downward at her folded hands.

''In India, she would walk to the grocery store, go next door to have tea, talk
about common things like the wheat and the corn,'' said Mr. Shahi of the
ingrained visiting culture so universally missed by many ethnic elders. ''At
home anyone can knock on the door anytime, to relieve the pressure. Here nothing
is similar.''

So at the end of his day counseling others, Mr. Shahi sits with his mother
before she goes to bed. He always asks if she needs any warm milk.

''The small things matter,'' he said of his mother and other elders longing for
home. ''The feeling that they are welcomed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Indian men gathering at a shopping center plaza in Fremont,
Calif., to discuss the news from home and the issues of the day. (pg.A1)
A group of Indian immigrants gathers at a mall in Fremont, Calif. Zia Mustafa,
left, moved to Fremont from Afghanistan with her son.
 Devendra Singh grew up in an Indian household with 14 family members. He now
lives alone. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) CHART:
AMERICA'S OLDER IMMIGRANT POPULATION: Since 1970, the number of United States
residents 65 and older who were born in Europe dropped by nearly half, while
those born in Asia and Latin America increased tenfold. (Source: Analysis of
census data by U.C.L.A. Center for Health Policy Research) (pg.A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

For a Mentally Ill Immigrant, a Path Clears Out of the Dark Maze of Detention

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1306 words


Holding tight to her sister's hand in the bustling streets of New York's
Chinatown last week, Xiu Ping Jiang looked a little dazed, like someone who has
stepped from a dark, windowless place into a sunny afternoon.

In a sense, she has. For a year and a half Ms. Jiang, a waitress with no
criminal record and a history of attempted suicide, was locked away in an
immigration jail in Florida. Often in solitary confinement, she sank ever deeper
into mental illness, relatives say, not eating for days, or vomiting after meals
for fear of being poisoned.

With no lawyer to plead for asylum on her behalf, she had been ordered to be
deported to her native China, from which her family says she fled in 1995 after
being forcibly sterilized at age 20. Too ill to obtain the travel documents
needed for the deportation to take place, she was trapped in an immigration
limbo:  a fate that detainee advocates say is common in a system that has no
rules for determining mental competency and no obligation to provide anyone with
legal representation.

Then, through a fluke, her case came to the attention of The New York Times,
which published an article on May 4 about her ordeal and the efforts of her
sisters in New York to help her. An immigration judge in Florida reopened the
case.

Now Ms. Jiang, 36, is free on bail, living in Brooklyn with her older sister,
Yun, a United States citizen, and receiving the medical and psychiatric help she
needs while awaiting a fresh immigration hearing close to home -- this time with
a lawyer. And her case is being held up as an example of the system's worst and
best approaches toward the mentally ill, as advocates press the Obama
administration for change.

If immigration courts were required to offer the same basic protections for the
mentally disabled as any other court, advocates say, Ms. Jiang's prolonged
detention -- which cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and put her life at
risk -- could have been avoided.

Hers is one of several cases cited in a 15-page letter  to Attorney General Eric
H. Holder Jr. that asks for such protections, including the appointment of
counsel to anyone with a mental disability in deportation proceedings, and the
appointment of guardians ad litem to speak on behalf of those found mentally
incompetent. The letter, signed by 77 mental health experts, civil rights
lawyers and immigration advocates around the country, was sent July 24, but not
made public until Thursday.

The Justice Department has made no formal response, but Matthew A. Miller, a
spokesman, said the department provided specialized training on handling the
mentally ill at the annual conference of immigration judges last month.

''Persons with mental disabilities face significant challenges in removal
proceedings, and these cases also present substantial challenges for immigration
courts,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''We recognize our obligation in this
area, and we will continue to review how we can improve our efforts to provide
due process and reasonable accommodation.''

Sunita Patel, a lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights  who signed the
letter, said such training was a positive step, but insufficient.

''As Ms. Jiang's case demonstrates,'' she said, ''these difficult cases require
all of the proposed protections. And change should happen fast, before more
people with mental disabilities disappear into the detention maze.''

Ms. Jiang was held at the Glades County Detention Center in December 2007, after
immigration agents stopped her at a Greyhound bus station in West Palm Beach,
Fla., where she was traveling to a restaurant job. She had no immigration
papers.

At her first brief hearing, the immigration judge, Rex. J. Ford,  issued an
order of deportation saying that she had failed to show up because she kept
answering his question, ''What is your name?'' without waiting for the
interpreter's translation into Mandarin.

He sent her back to the jail, where she was deprived of proper treatment and her
mental state rapidly deteriorated, according to court petitions on her behalf.
She was periodically confined to an isolation cell on suicide watch, records
show.

''Immigration detainees with mental-health issues often receive little, if any,
treatment,'' the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center  wrote this year in a report
on detention. ''In many cases, their conditions worsen or they destabilize while
in detention. They are misdiagnosed, improperly medicated, cruelly treated or
denied psychiatric care altogether. Worse, many of those immigrants should not
have been detained in the first place.''

Ms. Jiang did not speak at all at a second hearing, before another immigration
judge, Scott G. Alexander. He, too, ordered her deported, but reopened the case
after The Times article was published, and in June 2009, transferred her from
the jail in Glades County to a hospital detention center in Columbia, S.C., for
a new assessment of her mental state. There, Ms. Jiang jumped out of a
second-floor window, her lawyer says, only to enter an immigration agent's
vehicle and wait inside, apparently thinking it was a taxi.

Her physical condition had deteriorated, too. An obvious lump in her neck,
ignored at the jail, was biopsied at the South Carolina center and found to be
thyroid cancer; she underwent surgery, said Theodore N. Cox, an immigration
lawyer in New York who took the case without fee.

In July, Mr. Cox persuaded the immigration judge in Charlotte, N.C., Theresa
Holmes-Simmons, to free Ms. Jiang on $3,500 bail, despite opposition from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement lawyers who argued that her leap from a
window showed she was a flight risk.

On July 17, she went home to Brooklyn with her sister Yun, 38. ''But she was too
scared,'' the sister recalled. ''I had to bring her to the hospital'' --
Bellevue Hospital Center, which has treated immigrants regardless of their
ability to pay since 1736.

There, after 17 days as a voluntary psychiatric inpatient, she was visibly on
the mend when a reporter visited on Aug. 3. Her cheeks were round.

Only months before, when her older sister had visited her in the Florida jail,
Ms. Jiang, emaciated and incoherent, had scratched her face and refused to speak
to her, the sister said. Now, she added, laughing, ''She calls me on the phone,
and says, 'Visit and bring me some food!' ''

That afternoon, the older sister had brought a feast culled from fruit stands
and Chinese restaurants: melon, bags of peaches, sticky rice wrapped in banana
leaves, noodles with duck, even the sweet black-bean-paste treats of her
childhood in Fujian Province. Ms. Jiang, in blue hospital pajamas, dug happily
into the yellow flesh of a melon with a plastic spoon, then paused to answer a
question about her detention.

''When they locked me up, I was very cold,'' she said softly through an
interpreter. ''I asked for a blanket, but they didn't give me one. It was dark.
I got scared, so I think I went crazy.''

Her reason for jumping from a detention center window? ''I wanted to stay in the
United States,'' she said. ''I like the United States. China had the
sterilization -- nothing is good.''

Her sister eyed her anxiously. ''Whenever she talks about the past, her hands
start to tremble and she gets this faraway look in her eyes,'' she said.

Since her discharge from Bellevue in August, Ms. Jiang has been receiving weekly
treatment. Doctors recommended delaying a second operation on her neck until her
emotional state was more stable, her sister said.

Meanwhile, she does simple chores in the restaurant where her sister is a
cashier: cutting broccoli, watching the employees' children.

''I'm feeling O.K.,'' she said last week with a timid smile, fingering the scar
at her throat. Her sister smoothed her hair, and guided her onto the subway
home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Xiu Ping Jiang, right, with her sister, Yun, in Chinatown. Ms.
Jiang, 36, was released from a detention center in July after spending more than
a year in custody.
 At left, Ms. Jiang, center, with Yun on the subway to Brooklyn, and at right,
the sisters with Ms. Jiang's lawyer, Theodore Cox, at a restaurant in
Chinatown.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Astronaut Speaks On Immigration

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING IMMIGRATION; Pg.
14

LENGTH: 115 words


The astronaut Jose M. Hernandez said the United States needed to legalize its
illegal immigrants -- a rare public stand for an American astronaut on a
political issue. ''The American economy needs them,'' said Mr. Hernandez, 47, a
California native who worked in the cucumber, sugar beet and tomato fields
alongside his Mexican-born parents. He made his remarks in a interview with a
Mexican television network. ''I believe it's only fair to find a way to legalize
them and give them an opportunity to work openly, so they can also retire in a
traditional U.S. system.'' A NASA spokesman, James Hartsfield, said Mr.
Hernandez was expressing his personal views, not those of the space agency.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Overseas Without the Family

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 902 words


Companies still want footprints around the world, even  at a time when their
business has slowed. But it is no surprise that many  companies have cut back on
sending employees overseas in order to reduce costs.

Even so,   alternatives to traditional long-term assignments ''have grown
immensely,'' said Scott Sullivan, an executive vice president of Brookfield
Global Relocation Services, the firm that produces the annual Global Relocation
Trends Survey. The most common alternative, short-term assignments, which
typically last from several months to a year,  have tripled  in the last eight
years, Mr. Sullivan said.

''They're cheaper because it doesn't involve bringing the family,'' he said.

But while companies can cut their immediate  costs,  other problems can crop up.
''Companies can run afoul of compliance on tax and immigration laws'' in host
countries, Mr. Sullivan said. Some have gotten their hands slapped, had fines
imposed or had employees deported or, in extreme cases, put in jail.

A. Pendleton DuPuis,  president of the Emigra Group, a consulting firm that
manages visa and immigration programs, works with many  companies, often after
they get in trouble. ''They don't want to take the risk of being shut down or
having key people return home,'' Mr. DuPuis said.

He recounted how a large American company sent an executive to run operations
temporarily in Spain, but when immigration authorities there discovered he did
not have working papers, ''they actually came to his office and asked him to
leave'' within three days. The authorities could have shut down the company
offices, he said. Instead, the executive left the country voluntarily.

Countries have cracked down for reasons that include heightened security and
economic pressure.  Countries are getting more sophisticated, and there is more
sharing of tax and immigration information within countries and between
countries because technology has made that easier, said Maria Martorello, a
partner in  the global employer services practice at Deloitte's tax division.
''Before, countries were able to put their heads in the sand. Now, they cannot
ignore these risk areas.''

According to a report by KPMG, compliance is particularly tough for extended
business travelers who ''fly below the radar'' because they frequently travel to
one or multiple locations and have unpredictable schedules, making them
difficult for companies to track.

Some companies have started using various tools to help identify these ''stealth
expatriates.''  Accenture, the management consulting firm,  started using an
interactive Web site, the Global Mobility Relocation Navigator,  to help inform
employees about visa and tax issues.

Support services and an assessment of an employee's suitability for the job also
are critical, said Brenda H. Fender, director of global initiatives for
Worldwide ERC, an association concerned with work-force mobility.  Poorly chosen
or unprepared employees and their families can jeopardize the success of an
assignment, she said.

The Interchange Institute, a research and consulting organization based in
Brookline, Mass., recently released two studies that looked at the effect
short-term and extended business travel assignments had on employees and their
families.

The studies found that while these assignments were intended to be cost
effective for companies, there was unexpected stress on family income: only
about a third of families surveyed believed they were adequately compensated for
additional expenses for communication, household help, transportation and child
care. Short-term assignments, while considered less disruptive than long-term
postings, pose ''clear challenges to families,'' said Anne P. Copeland, the
institute's executive director.

That was the case for Marc Lawlor and his family. When he agreed to a 12-month
consulting assignment in environmental engineering in Dubai last year, the move
was intended to add international experience to his resume and increase his pay,
while  also allowing his wife to keep her job and their two children to remain
in their schools.

But his employer, a  small company, provided few services to assist them, Mr.
Lawlor said. ''It was their first foray bringing a U.S. employee overseas.'' The
first two months were tough, he said, as he worked 10  hours a day and looked
for housing at night. ''And the paperwork was never properly done by the
company.'' Mr. Lawlor said he drove over the border to Oman several times to get
his visa renewed, and  the company paid fines on a few occasions.

His wife, Debbie Alaimo Lawlor, had her own challenges. ''What you go through is
a kind of depression,'' she said. ''Four weeks into the assignment I just
started to get really, really lonely. ''  She paid her own expenses to visit
Dubai nine months into the assignment. ''If I visited Dubai at the beginning, I
think it would have made it a lot easier, but we didn't know what to ask for,''
she said.

When Mr. Lawlor returned home  this year, he was laid off two days later. ''It
came as a shock to us,'' Ms. Lawlor said.

But there were some unexpected benefits to the overseas experience.  The
couple's two children rose to the occasion by pitching in with household chores
and being supportive. ''For my 50th birthday,'' Ms. Lawlor said, ''my son
actually sent flowers because he knew his dad would have done this.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marc and Debbie Lawlor in Dubai. Even short-term foreign
assignments can be stressful for families.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Commitment to Citizenship

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 435 words


Here's a good federal stimulus project: citizenship. Reports this week that the
United States citizenship agency was yet again struggling with a budget
shortfall, and considering raising fees on the hopeful immigrants who are its
main source of revenue, could have led any American to wonder what kind of
beacon to the world we are anymore.

Congress requires Citizenship and Immigration Services to be self-supporting.
For years, the agency languished, its ambitions and effectiveness sorely limited
by the principle of economics and government known as You Get What You Pay For.
Bureaucratic backlogs built up, as did frustrations. Would-be citizens spent
years waiting for paperwork. Their long ordeals were compounded by a notoriously
surly, inattentive bureaucracy.

In 2007, the director of Citizenship and Immigration Services under former
President George W. Bush raised fees drastically and declared that the era of
bad faith and slow service was over. With the cost for services rising more than
65 percent across the board -- a $400 naturalization now cost $675 -- the agency
was going to be re-energized and well financed for the 21st century.

Just two years later, in a terrible economy, citizenship applications are down
sharply, along with requests for skilled-worker visas. Agency revenue is down by
$118 million, reviving talk of budget cuts and higher fees.

The agency has made strides recently in becoming more responsive and friendlier
to the people it serves. It created a thoughtful new citizenship test,
abandoning an old emphasis on rote memorization of civic trivia. It has just
unveiled an easier-to-use, bilingual Web site that allows immigrants to track
their cases, even with e-mails and text messages to their cellphones.

But the agency is still hobbled by its fee-based revenue stream. It deserves a
direct Congressional appropriation to supplement its budget so it can better
withstand economic downturns, keep improving services and keep fees from rising
too high for the poor and working class.

The need to properly finance America's citizenship agency -- and to keep
naturalization affordable -- is an issue both for now and later. At some point
soon, if President Obama and Congressional leaders keep their promise to pass a
comprehensive immigration bill, the agency will face a welcome but overwhelming
surge of Americans-in-waiting. The machinery of citizenship needs to be ready
and humming well before then, not struggling and broken.

Turning immigrants into Americans is a mission tied intimately to this country's
self-interest and identity, if not its very soul.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Former Drug Agent Pleads Not Guilty to Drug Charges

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 424 words


A former high-ranking federal agent pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to drug
trafficking charges that included accusations that he gave intelligence to
Mexican cartel members.

The former agent, Richard P. Cramer, 56, who served with Immigration and Customs
Enforcement on the Arizona border and in Guadalajara, Mexico, was arrested last
month at his home near Tucson.

Mr. Cramer was later indicted and taken to Miami, where his case is being
prosecuted because some of the smugglers met there to coordinate, and where he
entered his plea before Magistrate Judge Ted E. Bandstra. He is being held
without bail.

A spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office in Miami, Alicia Valle,
said the government would not comment. Mr. Cramer's lawyer, Hector L. Flores,
called his client ''a good man who has the support of his family and friends,''
who  ''should not be a casualty of the chaos in Mexico.''

A criminal complaint filed by the Drug Enforcement Administration, after a
two-year investigation, alleges a  breach of trust.

Mr. Cramer, a federal employee for 26 years, was the head of the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement office in Nogales, Ariz., a busy drug and illegal immigrant
trafficking spot, until 2004. Then he became the agency's representative in
Guadalajara, assigned to help track traffickers there, until he retired in 2007.

He most recently was working as a jail guard in Santa Cruz County, which
includes Nogales, but nothing in the court documents suggests his work there is
part of the case.

According to the complaint, on a number of occasions Mr. Cramer used his
position to search federal databases and a California state database to see if
certain unidentified drug trafficking organization members were informants for
American law enforcement.

The complaint says he passed that information along to his cartel handlers,
charging $2,000 for one D.E.A. document, as well as information on how federal
agents conduct drug investigations and recruit informants.

Mr. Cramer, the complaint said, at one point invested $40,000 in a 2007 plot to
smuggle 660 pounds of cocaine to Spain from Panama, passing through United
States seaports.

The load was seized, and that turn of events set off a dispute involving Mr.
Cramer, a drug lord and lower-level traffickers that included a hunt for
informants, according to the complaint.

The drug agency last August arrested an unidentified participant in the plot
who, along with other confidential sources, provided information that culminated
in Mr. Cramer's arrest.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Bones Of Immigrants, Stories of Pain

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 750 words


A few weeks ago, a hearse left Tom Amorosi's brownstone in Park Slope with the
remains of 36 people who died in the 1840s and 1850s. The remains were on the
final miles of a dizzying journey out of history. Mr. Amorosi, a forensic
anthropologist, had been hired by the state to study them.

The old bones spoke, but did not give direct answers.  ''I'd look at some of
them, and think, 'How the heck did you get up in the morning?' '' Mr. Amorosi
said, tracing the ravages mapped in the bones by poverty, illness and birth
defects.  In the bones, recovered during the construction of a courthouse on
Staten Island, we get a glimpse of the story of immigration long before Ellis
Island.

From the late 18th century on, people arriving in the United States were
examined by doctors while their ships were anchored in New York Harbor. Those
suspected of having an infectious disease were sent to a quarantine station at
Marine Hospital in St. George, Staten Island. Some recovered and left. Others
did not, and were buried in a rude graveyard on the grounds.

When the hospital was built in 1799, St. George was distant, rural countryside.
By the late 1850s, however, prosperity had arrived. Summer homes were built by
wealthy families from Manhattan. A community had grown.

The walled compound of the Marine Hospital, crammed with diseased and dying
immigrants, was not the ideal real estate amenity. In 1858, the neighbors
decided to shut it down. The sick immigrants were put into a number of New York
City homes until Ellis Island opened. ''You had very respectable people --
church leaders, local politicians, business owners -- who battered the gates,
emptied any people in the hospital buildings, and then burned each building
down,'' said Sara Mascia of Historical Perspectives Inc.,  a firm that studied
the site for the state.

No one went to jail for the fires, said Cece Saunders of Historical
Perspectives, because ''arson was defined as burning down a house with people in
it.''

Over the next century, fine houses were built atop the old burial ground. These
fell into disuse, and around 1957, the city plowed over the ground and paved it
for a public parking lot, disrupting many graves.

''There was one older woman who said she saw human remains being dumped into New
York Harbor,'' said Lynn Rogers, director of the Friends of Abandoned Cemeteries
of Staten Island. In the late 1990s, the city began planning a new courthouse on
the parking lot. The state's Dormitory Authority, which constructs many public
buildings, was managing the work. It hired Historical Perspectives to figure out
where the cemetery had been.

''The goal was to define the limits of the cemetery so we could avoid it,'' said
Matthew Stanley, an environmental manager for the Dormitory Authority.

A FIGHT began over what would happen to the remains. Ms. Rogers said her group
was willing to provide plots in another cemetery to rebury them. ''We said, we
don't care if you want to build a courthouse, a hotel, a bowling alley,'' Ms.
Rogers said. ''Just give them to us and we'll bury them.''

The discussion got crabby. The state said it was responsible for the remains,
unless someone could claim an ancestor. The state's chapter of the Ancient Order
of Hibernians said the remains were probably those of refugees from the Irish
potato famine. But hospital records were spotty, and as many Germans as Irish
were emigrating in some years the burial ground was in use.

''There were people talking about how we were going to bulldoze a cemetery and
drop a courthouse or parking garage on top of it,'' said the state's Mr.
Stanley. But the goals, he said, ''were always to respect the site.''

The Staten Island borough president provided funds to build a memorial green,
where the remains will eventually be placed, when the courthouse is finished.
Although most of the remains were not  disturbed during the archaeological
study, 37 partial skeletons were recovered, jumbled in shallow graves.

These were brought to Mr. Amorosi's lab in Brooklyn, where he saw compound
fractures in the bones and arthritic joints in men and women not yet 40 years
old. ''These people were used as mules,'' he concluded.

At 10 a.m. Saturday, two coffins, one for the adults, one for the five children,
will be brought to St. Peter's Catholic Church for an interfaith service.
Afterwards, they will be placed in a holding tomb.

''Then we're going to Tappan Park,'' Ms. Rogers said, ''for a traditional
19th-century wake.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Police Offer Reward in Beating of Mexican Immigrant in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By SIMON AKAM

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 567 words


The Police Department on Saturday provided more details and offered a reward in
an assault against a Mexican immigrant in Brooklyn last month that is being
investigated  as a hate crime.

The immigrant, Mario Vera, 37, was returning on bicycle to his home in Bushwick
from a food pantry in Manhattan on Sept. 23 when he was attacked by three men
who shouted anti-Hispanic slurs, according to the police and a spokesman for Mr.
Vera's family.

Mr. Vera  was hit on the back of the head with a hard object, the authorities
said, leaving him hospitalized with serious injuries.

''It's still delicate,'' said Walter Sinche, the executive director of the
International Ecuadorean Alliance, a community group, who is acting as a
spokesman for Mr. Vera's family. ''He can hardly walk. He's not talking. He
doesn't recognize his own family.''

The police said they were offering a $12,000 reward for information leading to
the arrest and conviction of Mr. Vera's attackers. Mr. Vera told investigators
that he believed the attack took place close to his home, but because of his
injuries, he was  unable to provide a precise location. The police said they
believed the beating happened between 1 and 4 p.m.

Mr. Vera, a construction worker, collapsed in front of his home and started
vomiting after the attack, the police said. During the next few days, he had
trouble speaking, walking and sleeping, and complained of headaches and
dizziness.

Mr. Vera's wife, Ana Maria Gallardo, took her husband to Woodhull Medical and
Mental Health Center  in Brooklyn, where doctors  gave him headache medication
and sent him home. But when Mr. Vera's condition did not improve, Ms. Gallardo,
on the advice of a social worker, took him to the  Latino Health Institute in
Manhattan on Oct. 1.

A nurse there checked Mr. Vera and told him to go to Beth Israel  Medical
Center, also in Manhattan, where he is in stable condition, according to a
hospital spokeswoman.

With her husband unable to work, Ms. Gallardo, who is unemployed, and the
couple's 17-year-old daughter are struggling financially, Mr. Sinche said.

''They are also going through a tough economic situation,'' he said. ''They
don't have money for rent or transportation.''

Ms. Gallardo did not report the attack to the police until Oct. 9. She could not
be reached for comment, but she and Mr. Vera are illegal immigrants, Mr. Sinche
said, and that may have made her reluctant to contact the police, even though
officers are not supposed to ask the immigration status of crime victims.

''Usually, they are afraid to contact the police officers,'' said Joel Magallan,
executive director of the Asociacion Tepeyac, a Latino advocacy group. ''I know
that police officers should not ask if they have documents or not, but I don't
think most immigrants who are undocumented here know that.''

In a bias attack in Bushwick in 2008, an Ecuadorean immigrant, Jose Sucuzhanay,
was fatally beaten, and two men have been charged in his killing.

The Mexican Consulate in New York denounced the attack on Mr. Vera.

''The Mexican government regrets and strongly condemns such unacceptable actions
against a Mexican national, and has immediately requested from the local
authorities a thorough investigation of this crime and the prompt implementation
of measures to capture and prosecute those responsible for the attack,'' the
consulate said in a statement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Migrants Going North Now Risk Kidnappings

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

DATELINE: TECATE, Mexico


For 37 days, the Salvadoran immigrant was held captive in a crowded room near
the border with scores of people, all of them Central Americans who had been
kidnapped while heading north, hoping to cross into the United States. He
finally got out in August, he said, after the Mexican Army raided the house in
the middle of the night to free them.

''The army said: 'Don't run. We're here to help you,' '' recalled the migrant, a
30-year-old father of three who insisted that his name not be printed for fear
of either being kidnapped again or deported. ''I kept running.''

Getting to ''el norte'' has never been a cakewalk. Along with long treks through
desert terrain, death-defying river crossings and perilous rides clinging onto
trains, there have always been con men and crooked police officers preying on
migrants along the way.

But Mexican human rights groups that monitor migration say the threats
foreigners face as they cross Mexico for the United States have grown
significantly in recent months. Organized crime groups have begun taking aim at
migrants as major sources of illicit revenue, even as the financial crisis in
the United States has reduced the number of people willing to risk the journey.

Kidnapping people for ransom is a pervasive problem in this country, although
victims have typically been prosperous people with bank accounts that can be
emptied at the nearest A.T.M., or those with relatives willing to hand over
significant sums to save them.

Migrants may typically be poor, often with little in their pockets except the
scrawled telephone numbers of relatives who have migrated before them, but they
have usually notified friends or relatives in the United States that they are on
their way. To kidnappers, those contacts are golden. ''They beat me and kept
beating me until I handed over my telephone numbers,'' said the Salvadoran
immigrant, interviewed at a center for migrants in Reynosa, just across the
border with Texas.

In many ways, the man's account was typical. A study by Mexico's National Human
Rights Commission released this year found 9,758 migrants who had been kidnapped
as they tried to cross the border into the United States between September 2008
and February 2009. The commission noted that migrants were typically terrified
to report such crimes out of fear of being deported by Mexican immigration
authorities and that the actual number of victims was probably much higher.

The stories the commission heard in interviews with victims were alarming. There
were frequent rapes of female migrants. Fierce beatings were carried out. As a
lesson to other captives, the kidnappers killed some migrants who did not hand
over the telephone numbers of their relatives.

''They said that if they did not receive payment, they would take away my kidney
afterward and throw me into the river so the big lizards would eat me,'' a
Honduran man who was kidnapped in Tabasco State told commission investigators.

He said he had been kidnapped along with 60 or so others, all Central Americans.
The men who took them said they were coyotes, or human smugglers, and promised
to feed them and help them cross into the United States. Instead, the men forced
the captives over 30 days to call relatives in the United States and extract
thousands of dollars from them in order to be released.

The amounts demanded ranged from $1,500 to $10,000, sizable sums on top of the
several thousand dollars that the migrants had already paid smugglers to make
the crossing.

One victim, a Honduran man kidnapped in Nuevo Laredo at the Texas border, told
investigators that he was close to reaching the United States when he fell for a
swindle. Two women approached and offered him a day job for about $10, money
that he desperately needed.

But there was no job awaiting him at the house where he was taken. Instead, he
and a half dozen other migrants were beaten over the course of two weeks and
frequently photographed. The captors demanded the e-mail addresses of relatives
and sent the desperate-looking photos in order to extract ransoms, he said.

The man said his relatives paid what the kidnappers had demanded, so he and
others who had come up with the ransom money were blindfolded one evening and
taken to the bank of a river. Dumped alongside them was the body of a Salvadoran
migrant whom the captors had killed. The kidnappers fired several rounds at the
ground and demanded that everyone jump into the river, the man said. The group
never made it across, though, and was later picked up by the Mexican
authorities.

Human rights workers say Mexican migrants are not singled out by kidnappers as
often as foreigners, mostly Central Americans, but also Ecuadoreans, Brazilians,
Chileans and Peruvians. The foreigners are more vulnerable, less familiar with
their surroundings and less likely to report what happened to them to the
authorities, advocates say.

''If people don't come forward, we don't know the extent of the problem,'' said
Angelica Martinez, a state prosecutor in Tecate, a border town east of Tijuana,
where the authorities were pursuing a kidnapper who goes by the nickname ''El
Gato,'' who was believed to prey on migrants.

Complicating the problem, migrants complain that the police are sometimes in
league with the kidnappers, rounding up victims and handing them over to
kidnappers for a fee. Mexican law enforcement officials acknowledge that some
individual officers may be involved in organized crime, but they say the problem
is not as widespread as often portrayed and is being combated on a national
level.

The Salvadoran victim who was kidnapped in Reynosa said he had first been to the
United States in 1999. He had stayed three years, working in the fields and in a
furniture store in North Carolina, before returning to El Salvador. After what
he had endured, he said he was mulling whether to give up the opportunity of
higher wages in the United States and return home.

''There was danger of robbery back then,'' he said of his first crossing 10
years ago. ''It's always been dangerous. But now it's gotten even worse. We're
poor and we're trying to get ahead. We're doing this for our kids. I'd advise
people to be careful and to pray to God.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A migrant from Guatemala, above, walked to catch a freight
train north in Guadalajara. At left, a Honduran studied a map of Mexico, where
foreigners are being kidnapped on their way to the United States.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY
CARLOS JASSO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Measure Gives Rights To Widows Of Citizens

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 506 words


The Senate approved a measure on Tuesday that would end what has become known as
the ''widow penalty'' -- the government's practice of annulling foreigners'
applications for permanent residency when their American spouses die before the
marriage is two years old.

The measure, which passed 79-19, was contained in a conference report that
accompanied an appropriations bill for the Department of Homeland Security. The
House of Representatives passed the conference report last week. President Obama
is expected to sign the bill into law.

While the foreign spouse of a United States citizen may be eligible for
residency under American law, the government has argued that the spouse's death
before the two-year mark ends the marriage, canceling the foreigner's right to
be considered for residency and opening the door to deportation.

The new provision does not directly address the government's definition of
marriage, but it allows foreigners married to Americans for less than two years
to submit their own petition for residency within two years of the spouse's
death, as long as they have not remarried and can prove a good-faith marriage.

The law is also retroactive; any immigrant whose citizen spouse died less than
two years after they wed, no matter how long ago, would have two years from the
law's enactment to petition for residency.

Lawyers and other advocates who have been lobbying for years to abolish the
government's two-year marriage requirement celebrated the vote.

''I feel an indescribable calm right now; it's a little unreal,'' said Brent
Renison, a lawyer in Portland, Ore., and the pro bono counsel for Surviving
Spouses Against Deportation, a nonprofit advocacy group. ''It rights an
injustice that has sorely needed to be corrected for a long time.''

The measure would provide relief to a few hundred aggrieved immigrants who
entered the country legally, followed the rules and have been subject to
deportation because their spouses died, Mr. Renison said.

Among them is Osserritta Robinson, a Jamaican immigrant whose husband of eight
months died in the Staten Island ferry crash on Oct. 15, 2003. Her application
for residency was tossed out because of the death, so she sued the Department of
Homeland Security. The case has wound its way through the court system, and last
summer, her lawyer filed an appeal with the United States Supreme Court.

The bill approved Tuesday would appear to moot Ms. Robinson's case, along with
about a dozen similar court cases around the country that are challenging the
widow penalty.

Ms. Robinson's lawyer, Jeffrey Feinbloom, said Tuesday that it remained unclear
exactly how his client's case would be resolved, though a settlement ''in some
capacity'' seemed likely.

''The good news is that one way or another, Osserritta should be able to
legalize her status,'' he said.

The measure was championed by four Democratic senators: Robert Menendez of New
Jersey, Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York, Bill Nelson of Florida and Patrick J.
Leahy of Vermont.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2009 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lou Dobbs Says His Views Made His House a Gunshot Target

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER; Al Baker and Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 589 words


The New Jersey State Police are investigating a report of gunfire  this month at
the Sussex County home of Lou Dobbs, the outspoken CNN anchor and radio host.

Mr. Dobbs described the shooting on his syndicated radio program  this week and
suggested that his family had been singled out because of his views on illegal
immigration and border security.

Investigators have not reached the same conclusion. ''It's unclear at this point
what the intended target was,'' Sgt. Stephen Jones of the State Police said
Friday.

One bullet struck the siding of Mr. Dobbs's home, about 60 miles northwest of
New York City, on Oct. 5. In the radio broadcast, Mr. Dobbs said his wife was
standing ''not 15 feet away'' at the time.

In an interview on Friday, Mr. Dobbs said the shooting followed a series of
threatening phone calls. ''They were coming with great regularity'' in the
months before the gunshot, he said. ''Since that shot was fired, we have not
received a single phone call.''

Mr. Dobbs said he did not report the threats to the police. He also said a fire
had been started on his property a couple of months ago, and he said he did
report that to the authorities.

Mr. Dobbs is a longtime proponent of strict enforcement of immigration laws. His
critics, who say he spreads misinformation about immigrants, have stepped up
efforts in recent months to have him fired. A coalition of Hispanic advocacy
groups pegged one campaign to CNN's broadcast last week of a four-hour
documentary, ''Latinos in America.'' The groups said it was hypocritical for the
network to woo Hispanic viewers while Mr. Dobbs was on the payroll.

Mr. Dobbs regularly talks about his critics' vitriol. ''Fringe ethnocentric
groups have been calling for my head, figuratively,'' for some time, he said
Friday.

The shooting seems to have heightened Mr. Dobbs's sense of discord. After saying
Monday on his radio program  that ''they've now fired a shot at my house''
without specifying whom he meant, he added, ''If anybody thinks that we're not
engaged in a battle for the soul of this country right now, you're sorely
mistaken.''

Mr. Dobbs said on CNN on Thursday that the leader of the League of United Latin
American Citizens, one of the pro-immigration groups that he has criticized, had
called to express his concern about the incident.

After the gunshot was reported on Oct. 5, troopers met with Mr. Dobbs's wife and
determined that the bullet came from a rifle. ''It's not been determined at this
point where it came from, or who shot the gun,'' Sergeant Jones said.

Bill Ross, a longtime neighbor of Mr. Dobbs's, said gunshots were common in the
area.

''Every day almost, it seems like somebody is target-practicing,'' he said. ''To
hear a gunshot, I don't think anything of it.''

Several neighbors said Mr. Dobbs does not allow hunters on his property.
Regardless, ''everyone around here likes him,'' said Rocky Russo, who was
dressed in camouflage gear and bowhunting for white-tailed deer near Mr. Dobbs's
property on Friday. The gunshot, he said, ''might have been some idiot taking a
shot at a squirrel in a tree. Who knows?''

Sergeant Jones said reports of gunfire go up this time of year. Asked if it was
possible the bullet that hit his house was a stray, Mr. Dobbs said he could not
rule anything out. He said that a state trooper had told him ''point blank,
there's too many things happening for it to be a coincidence.''

CNN's security staff have monitored threats against him for years. A network
spokeswoman declined to comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 1, 2009 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Personal Stories Highlight Latino International Film Festival

BYLINE: By AILEEN JACOBSON

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 605 words


SOON after Marcelo Lucero, an Ecuadorean immigrant, was stabbed to death in
Patchogue last year,   James Garcia Sotomayor, a filmmaker who lives in nearby
Brentwood, got a worried phone call from his mother, who lives in his native
Ecuador. The call, he said, inspired him to make a movie based on the Patchogue
event.

Mr. Garcia Sotomayor  poured his life savings -- $40,000 he had intended to use
to buy a home -- into ''Taught to Hate,''  a 27-minute fictional film. It
includes a confrontation between a group of non-Latino teenagers and two Latino
immigrants, much like the real-life incident for which seven youths are awaiting
trial.

''These are personal issues,'' Mr. Garcia Sotomayor said. ''They are so
important to me.''

After he cast Brandon Hannan, a 16-year-old from Dix Hills who played Vito
Spatafore Jr.  in ''The Sopranos,'' 700 actors applied to audition, he said.

''Taught to Hate'' will be among 25 films  featured next weekend at the fifth
annual Long Island Latino International Film Festival at the Charles B. Wang
Center at Stony Brook University. Besides the United States, they come from
countries including Peru, Bolivia, El Salvador, Ecuador, Guatemala and the
Dominican Republic.

The festival was founded by T. J. Collins of Hicksville and Janet Cruz of
Holbrook, who share the title of executive director.

Mr. Collins,  who owns a film production company, has included his first
feature, ''Willets Point,'' which he wrote, directed and produced. ''It's the
story of a family struggling to make ends meet,'' he said. ''My mother and
father worked very hard. They had their own cleaning company.'' His protagonist,
Guillo Blanco (Alfredo Suarez), is an auto mechanic in the Queens industrial
enclave the film takes its title from.

Mr. Collins said he expanded the film after visiting the New Jersey home of his
cinematographer and co-producer, Ivan Velez, where he met Mr. Velez's
father-in-law -- who turned out to be Moses Caban, Mr. Collins's former
mechanics teacher at East Meadow High School. Not only did Mr. Collins cast Mr.
Caban in the film, he said, but he also incorporated his story. Mr. Caban's
wife, Diane Victoria Caban, has Huntington's disease, an incurable degenerative
disorder. In the film, Guillo's wife, Doris (Lorraine Rodriguez, who also
appears in ''Taught to Hate''), learns she has the disease.

For Frances Lozada, an actress and writer who lives in Bayside, Queens, the
frustrations of auditioning inspired her documentary ''StereoTYPEd.'' Ms. Lozada
said casting directors often found her looks either too Latina or not Latina
enough. ''I can't win,'' she said. She wrote and directed the 24-minute film,
and her husband, the actor Franky G, whose credits include ''The Italian Job''
and ''Wonderland,'' was executive producer. He, Ms. Lozada and other actors talk
onscreen about stereotyping. ''I want to send the message that we're all the
same,'' Ms. Lozada said.

In ''Evergreen,'' shot mostly in Mineola, Rolando Sanchez, the writer and
director, tells a fictional story of spousal abuse in just 20 minutes, including
flashbacks to the abusing husband's abysmal childhood. Mr. Sanchez, an
electrical engineer who lives in Forest Hills, Queens, said he became fascinated
with film in 1996 as he watched ''Saving Private Ryan'' while serving with the
Navy in the Persian Gulf. He said his film has universal appeal.

''I don't make movies for Latinos,'' he said. ''I make films with Latinos in
them.''

Long Island Latino International Film Festival, Nov. 6 to 8, Charles B. Wang
Center, Stony Brook University. Information: liliff.com or (516) 983-9830.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2009



CORRECTION: An article in some editions last Sunday about the Long Island Latino
International Film Festival misstated, using information from Rolando Sanchez,
one of the participating directors, the year he saw the film ''Saving Private
Ryan,'' which he credits with inspiring his interest in film. He saw the film in
1998, the year it was released, not 1996. The article also omitted the original
source of a comment by Mr. Sanchez: ''I don't make movies for Latinos. I make
films with Latinos in them.'' Mr. Sanchez said he was repeating the words of
another director, Franc Reyes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DANGER: ''Taught to Hate,'' with Brandon Hannan, second from
left.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Jail Tests U.S. View Of Legal Access

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words


A startling petition arrived at the New York City Bar Association in October
2008, signed by 100 men, all locked up without criminal charges in the middle of
Manhattan.

In vivid if flawed English, it described cramped, filthy quarters where dire
medical needs were ignored and hungry prisoners were put to work for $1 a day.

The petitioners were among 250 detainees imprisoned in an immigration jail that
few New Yorkers know exists. Above a post office, on the fourth floor of a
federal office building in Greenwich Village, the Varick Street Detention
Facility takes in 11,000 men a year, most of them longtime New Yorkers facing
deportation without a lawyer.

Galvanized by the petition, the bar association sent volunteers into the jail to
offer legal counsel to detainees -- a strategy the Obama administration has
embraced as it tries to fix the entire detention system..

''Immigration and Customs Enforcement considers the access to legal services at
Varick Street as a good model,'' said Sean Smith, a spokesman for Janet
Napolitano, secretary of homeland security, who oversees immigration
enforcement.

But the lawyers doing the work have reached a different conclusion, after
finding that most detainees with a legal claim to stay in the United States are
routinely transferred to more remote jails before they can be helped. The
lawyers say their effort has laid bare the fundamental unfairness of a system
where immigrant detainees, unlike criminal defendants, can be held without legal
representation and moved from state to state without notice.

In a report to be issued on Monday, the association's City Bar Justice Center is
calling for all immigrant detainees to be provided with counsel. And an article
to be published this month in The Fordham Law Review treats the Varick jail as a
case study in the systemic barriers to legal representation.

The new focus on Varick highlights the conflict between two forces: the
administration's plans to revamp detention, and current policies that feed the
flow of detainees through the system as it is now. A disjointed mix of county
jails and privately run prisons, where mistreatment and medical neglect have
been widely documented, the detention network churns roughly 400,000 detainees
through 32,000 beds each year.

''Any attempt to get support or services for them is stymied because you don't
know where they're going to end up,'' said Lynn M. Kelly, the director of the
Justice Center.

When she asked that the lawyers' letters of legal advice be forwarded to
detainees who had been transferred from Varick, she said the warden balked,
saying he had to consider the financial interests of his private shareholders:
1,200 members of a central Alaskan tribe whose dividends are linked to Varick's
profits under a $79 million, three-year federal contract.

Federal officials would not discuss their transfer policies, but asked for
patience as they try to make the detention system more humane and
cost-effective.

''We inherited an inadequate detention system from the previous administration
that does not meet ICE's current priorities or needs,'' said Matthew Chandler, a
Homeland Security spokesman. Officials say they are committed to a complete
overhaul, including less-penal detention centers with better access to lawyers.

The volunteer lawyers and the petition's author, an ailing refugee from torture
in Romania who spent eight months inside Varick, say many problems persist
there, though the added scrutiny has led to improvements. Detainees who want a
Gideon Bible no longer have to pay the commissary $7. Immigration officials are
more responsive when a lawyer complains that a detainee in pain is not getting
treatment.

But most detainees do not have a lawyer, and the few who do include men who have
fallen prey to incompetent or fraudulent practitioners. Recurrent complaints
include frigid temperatures, mildew and meals that leave detainees hungry and
willing to clean for $1 a day to pay for commissary food. That wage is specified
in the contract with the Alaskan company, which budgeted 23,000 days of such
work the first year, and collects a daily rate of $227.68 for each detainee.

The Alaska connection is one of the stranger twists in the jail's fitful
history. Opened as a federal immigration detention center in 1984, Varick became
chronically overcrowded after 1998, when new laws mandated the detention of all
noncitizens who had ever committed a crime on a list of deportable offenses,
expanded to include misdemeanors like drug possession.

A Dominican man there died of untreated pneumonia in 1999 -- the first reported
death in the nationwide detention system, which now counts 106 since October
2003.

The Varick facility, which is on the corner of Houston Street, fell short of
national detention standards adopted in 2000, because it lacks any outdoor
recreation space. But under a grandfather clause, it was allowed to remain open
until 9/11, when the terror attack, blocks away, forced its evacuation. For
years, it was shuttered. It quietly reopened in February 2008, operated by Ahtna
Technical Services Inc., a subsidiary of Ahtna Inc. -- still with no access to
fresh air.

As an Alaska Native corporation, Ahtna has won numerous federal contracts
without having to compete with other companies; last year it paid its tribal
shareholders about $500 each in dividends. It hires a Texas subcontractor to
supply guards and transportation, along with the shackles and belly chains
routinely used on detainees being moved in or out.

Varick's population includes illegal immigrants, asylum-seekers and legal
immigrants who face deportation because they have past criminal convictions.
Almost half of those screened by the volunteer lawyers have already been in
detention for four to six months, according to the bar association report, and
nearly 40 percent have legal grounds to contest deportation.

A few, the report says, have a possible claim to citizenship, which would make
their detention unlawful. But the volunteers, including lawyers from 16
corporate firms, say they can offer only rudimentary legal triage to a handful
of detainees a week.

The Department of Justice is asking Congress for money to expand the law
project, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement invites Washington officials to
visit the weekly triage sessions. The agency allowed a reporter to observe a
session, but not to tour the jail. On a recent Thursday, only 11 of 35 detainees
who had signed up made it into one of five glassed-in booths where they could
consult with pairs of legal volunteers.

One, a 25-year-old Mexican, had been delivering food for an Italian restaurant
on Madison Avenue until his detention. After a week in Varick, the government
had not served him with a ''notice to appear'' telling why he was detained and
setting the date and place where he would be heard by an immigration judge.

Volunteers were researching his case a week later when he was transferred to
Atlanta. It could just as easily have been Louisiana or Texas, far from any free
legal help, said Maria Navarro, a Legal Aid lawyer who supervises the
volunteers. Even in cities, she said, lawyers are reluctant to represent
detainees who may be suddenly moved far away.

Another 25-year-old, who had come to New York as a legal immigrant from Belize
at age 2, told lawyers he had worked at Kentucky Fried Chicken to support his
5-year-old daughter, a citizen, when his sickle-cell anemia permitted. After a
standing huddle, the lawyers told him that because his notice listed old
convictions for possession of marijuana, he was ineligible for release on bond
or with an electronic monitoring bracelet.

A Haitian, who had served time for at least one drug-related offense, had a
lawyer but wanted a second opinion after being held in Varick for 16 months. He
described himself as a barber, interpreter and legal resident of Brooklyn for 23
years.

''It is double jeopardy,'' he protested, nursing a swollen jaw with teeth
missing. ''I become a diabetic here, because of anxiety, stress and suicidal
conditions.''

Yet a detainee from the former Soviet Union praised the jail. ''Varick is
heaven'' compared with some county jails in New Jersey (Bergen and Monmouth) and
Florida, he said, citing abuse by anti-immigrant guards.

A century-long line of Supreme Court decisions holds that immigration detention
is not a punishment or deprivation of liberty, and does not require legal
counsel for fundamental fairness.

But Daniel I. Miller, 39, the Romanian whose petition reached the bar
association, said his own case showed how high the stakes can be. Mr. Miller, a
chef, fled his native land in 1994 after the secret police mutilated him for
advocating gay rights. In New York, he had already been paroled for a criminal
conviction -- for signing his partner's name on a contract -- when immigration
authorities detained him.

To no avail, records show, his lawyer and an outraged doctor at St. Vincent's
Hospital Manhattan urged his release from Varick for treatment of tumors on his
liver. Instead, he was transferred in April to the Orange County Jail in Goshen,
N.Y., where he said he also circulated a petition. The authorities there accused
him of trying to start a riot and sent him to segregation with a murder
defendant.

''These people have no rules, that's the main problem,'' Mr. Miller said,
speaking from the Midtown office where he is starting an organic catering
business. He credits his lawyer, Howard Brill, for that turnaround: On Sept. 2,
after almost a year in custody, an immigration judge granted him the right to
stay in the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel I. Miller, a former detainee at the Varick Street
center, complained of abuses there. ''These people have no rules,'' he said.
 The little-known detention center in Greenwich Village, on the fourth floor,
reopened last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 16, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Orders Deportation of Ex-Militant in Irish Republican Army, Ending a Long
Struggle

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex.


A former militant in the Irish Republican Army who lived in the United States
for 25 years before being detained last year by the Border Patrol is scheduled
to be deported this week to Ireland.

The former militant, Pol Brennan, 56, has spent 17 months in immigration
detention centers while fighting deportation. His lawyers had appealed to the
Homeland Security Department in May for a stay of removal and deferred action.

Mr. Brennan's wife, Joanna Volz, said he called her Thursday from the Port
Isabel Service Processing Center in South Texas with the news. A federal
immigration judge ordered Mr. Brennan deported in late November. He is scheduled
to be deported to Ireland next Friday aboard a government plane, Ms. Volz said.
Mr. Brennan, from West Belfast, Northern Ireland, holds an Irish passport.

Mr. Brennan testified at a hearing in November in the Willacy County Detention
Center that he transported what he believed were explosives between drop-off
points in Belfast for the Irish Republican Army about six times. It was on one
of those runs in 1976 that he was arrested and sentenced to 16 years in The Maze
prison, from which he escaped with 37 others in 1983. Mr. Brennan said that
while he supported the I.R.A., he was not a sworn member of the group.

The federal government was familiar with Mr. Brennan's past but consistently
renewed his work permits. It was only when he essentially fell into their laps
with an expired work permit that immigration authorities acted.

The Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Mr. Brennan in Berkeley, Calif., in
1993 after he applied for a passport using an alias, touching off a seven-year
fight against extradition. Mr. Brennan spent about four years in jail. Britain
dropped its extradition demand in 2000, and Mr. Brennan was allowed to stay in
the United States, though with a murky immigration status. He worked as a
carpenter in the San Francisco Bay area.

In January, Mr. Brennan and Ms. Volz were on their way from South Padre Island
to Austin to see friends when they stopped at the Border Patrol checkpoint in
Sarita. Mr. Brennan told the agents he was not an American citizen. When they
saw his work permit had expired -- he had applied for but not received an annual
renewal -- they ran his name in the computer and saw his unusual history. He has
been detained ever since.

At his hearing in November, Mr. Brennan had asked the judge to consider granting
him political asylum because of reprisals he said he could face in Northern
Ireland or permanent residency taking into account his 1989 marriage to Ms.
Volz.

Mr. Brennan was convicted of making a fraudulent passport application and using
an alias when buying a pistol in his early days in California.

Nina Pruneda, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said she
would not comment on individual cases.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

That Promise of Detention Reform

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 342 words


Last month the Obama administration announced that it was going to overhaul
immigration detention, to impose accountability and safety on a system
notoriously deficient in both. This month, the official chosen to lead the
effort, Dora Schriro, announced that she was leaving Washington to become the
commissioner of correction for New York City. But the job of fixing the
detention system, and all of its horrors, must move ahead.

On Friday, her last day on the job, Ms. Schriro delivered a report on the
detention system to Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary. We hope
that it fully reflects the desperate reality: the brutal mistreatment;
isolation, filth and deprivation; the shabby or nonexistent health care and the
ill and injured detainees who languished and sometimes died, their suffering
untreated.

Ms. Schriro's successor will have a big job in fulfilling the administration's
promise of reform. The abuse and neglect must end. The system must also become
much more discriminating about whom it holds -- dangerous criminals, not the
harmless and sick.

It will also have to rein in the private for-profit prisons that deliver brutal
service on the cheap. And it will have to increase accountability and
transparency. Ms. Napolitano can start by releasing Ms. Schriro's report.
Americans need to find out what happened in Basile, La., where detainees staged
a hunger strike to protest detestable conditions, or downtown Los Angeles, where
inmates filed a lawsuit to protest the squalor.

While Ms. Napolitano and her team promise to make detention a ''truly civil''
system, they show no interest in reforming the corrupt mechanisms that feed it.
Instead, they are  expanding the programs that have allowed corrupt local
officials to round up thousands in unjust raids. The same people whom President
Obama has promised a decent shot at citizenship remain easy prey to racial
profiling, and are terrified of ending up in this truly uncivilized system. Mr.
Obama and Ms. Napolitano must resolve that fundamental contradiction.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Florida: Charges In Fatal Boat Capsizing

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 94 words


A Haitian man was charged with human smuggling after federal authorities accused
him of piloting a boat overloaded with migrants that capsized off Florida,
killing at least nine people, including a pregnant woman. The man, Jimmy
Metellus, is scheduled to appear in federal court on Wednesday on charges of
smuggling that caused the death of another person. Mr. Metellus was among 16
people rescued when the boat capsized last week off Boynton Beach. Most of the
survivors will be deported to their home countries; 15 of the survivors are
Haitian, and one is Jamaican.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2009 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On American Shores, a Wave of Immigrants Smuggled in From China

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 987 words


THE SNAKEHEAD

An Epic Tale of the Chinatown Underworld and the American Dream

By Patrick Radden Keefe

414 pages. Doubleday. $27.50.

On Jan. 8, 1993, in an electronics store on Allen Street in Lower Manhattan, two
factions of the Fuk Ching gang squared off in a showdown that resulted in a
double homicide.  The shootout took place in broad daylight in a busy
neighborhood. And yet, according to Patrick Radden Keefe, author of ''The
Snakehead,'' none of New York's major English-language newspapers even mentioned
this violent crime.  Although Mr. Keefe does not invoke the relevant movie
dialogue, a ''Forget it, Jake -- it's Chinatown'' attitude might have helped
keep the press away.

But the Chinatown described in ''The Snakehead'' is such an impenetrable place
that attitudes of resignation are understandable. Mr. Keefe's book focuses on a
ghetto within a ghetto, the New York community of emigres from Fujian Province
of China who began arriving in the United States in large numbers in the 1980s.

In a formidably well-researched book that is as much a paean to its author's
industriousness as it is a chronicle of crime, Mr. Keefe outlines the way in
which the Fujianese were forced out of China, driven to take desperately
roundabout and dangerous travel routes and eventually arrived in America
courtesy of the lucrative human smuggling business. Snakehead is the term for an
entrepreneurial leader of that trade.

The stories told in ''The Snakehead'' are so long and convoluted that Mr. Keefe
has had to go to astonishing lengths to follow them. He has contended with
formidable language barriers, convoluted global trade routes, foreign
governments that take an anything-goes approach to issuing passports, corruption
in the Immigration and Naturalization Service, rivalry between that agency and
the F.B.I., and rogue developments like the incarceration of a large group of
illegal  Chinese immigrants in York, Pa.

He has also tackled a major player, a snakehead known as Sister Ping, who seems
determined to stay out of public view. When Mr. Keefe, who wound up interviewing
with her in writing,  initially approached her about his reporting, she gave an
answer that validated everything his book would go on to say about her: ''What's
in it for me?''

That seems to have been Sister Ping's attitude from the start. She emigrated to
America, as her father had before her, and quickly established herself as a
hard-working businesswoman operating a mom-and-pop variety store in New York's
Chinatown with her husband, Cheung Yick Tak, a man who shares little of his
wife's remarkable ability to shrug off the law. On one of the first occasions
Sister Ping was interrogated by an American official, she flatly told the I.N.S.
investigator Joe Occhipinti: ''You don't have the time to get me. Or the
resources.'' Mr. Keefe says what impressed Mr. Occhipinti about this exchange
was that she was right.

Mr. Keefe has the wisdom to realize that Sister Ping, for all her flouting of
American law enforcement, is not a sufficiently vivid or galvanizing figure on
whom to center a book. So she becomes one of many, to the point that ''The
Snakehead'' struggles to balance the many twisting story lines that fill its
pages. Part of the  book describes the conditions in  Fujian Province that
prompted such a strong wave of chain migration (the kind in which one villager
or family member follows another to the same overseas destination). It addresses
the paradoxical way in which new prosperity in China drove away some of that
country's most skilled  -- and most motivated  -- workers.

And Mr. Keefe outlines the way in which close-knit Fujianese enclaves in the
United States could drift into crime in general and human smuggling in
particular. In the process, he makes crucial distinctions between human
smuggling (voluntary on both sides) and human trafficking (akin to slavery)
while also demonstrating how American law has made the people-smuggling business
so lucrative.

Crackdowns at borders, Mr. Keefe says, are only more apt to drive immigrants
into the hands of skilled snakeheads. And when the Chinese are willing to pay
$30,000 each to enter the United States illegally, it becomes both practical and
profitable for smugglers to hire low-paid local decoys to distract border
patrols. Snakeheads also put themselves at relatively low legal risk compared to
drug smugglers who face stiff sentences if arrested and convicted.

Although Mr. Keefe does an admirable job of navigating the minutiae of his
story, the larger-scale events and historical currents are what stand out. ''The
Snakehead'' begins with the shipwreck of the Golden Venture, a vessel filled
with illegal immigrants, near a New York City beach in 1993. It describes what a
ticklish matter this became for the brand-new Clinton administration, which
faced the challenge of reconciling sympathy for Chinese refugees after Tiananmen
Square with resistance to illegal immigration.

And it illustrates beautifully how oddly politics can evolve. The story takes an
unexpected turn once China's one-child policy -- and propaganda-ready stories of
forced abortions and sterilizations conducted there -- made the immigrants'
cause unexpectedly attractive to America's religious right. The way political
opponents converged in York, Pa., to form the immigrants-rights group called the
People of the Golden Vision and usher Golden Venture survivors into their new
American lives is inspiring, but it makes sense only in the full context of Mr.
Keefe's many interconnected tales.

An all-American footnote: One Chinese-born immigrant emerged from prison, was
hired by a Pennsylvania weaving company, went to live rent-free in a room at the
mill's facilities and increased the company's output by 50 percent over his
first three years. He became American enough to make fabric used in costumes for
re-enactors of Civil War battles.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Illegal immigrants on the beach after the ship carrying them,
the Golden Venture, ran aground.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL ALBANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Patrick Radden Keefe (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAI SRISKANDARAJAH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rule Change For Workers On Farms

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 321 words


Carrying out one of the first promises she made after taking office in March,
Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis is suspending regulations adopted by the Bush
administration to govern wages and recruitment of immigrant guest workers for
agriculture.

On Friday the Department of Labor will publish a new rule suspending the
regulations for nine months beginning June 29.

The regulations took effect Jan. 17, in the final days of the Bush
administration. During the suspension, regulations in effect before President
George W. Bush's changes will be temporarily reinstated as the Labor Department
draws new regulations for the guest worker program.

Farm worker organizations had criticized the Bush regulations, saying they
lowered wages for immigrant guest workers and undermined protections for
American farm workers. On Thursday those groups hailed the suspension as a sign
that Ms. Solis would shift the work of the Labor Department to put more emphasis
on improving conditions for workers.

''We are hugely and deeply thankful to Secretary Solis,'' said Erik Nicholson, a
national vice president of United Farm Workers.

Bush administration officials said they had adopted the regulations to
streamline a guest worker program, known as H-2A, which most agricultural
employers shunned because they said it was slow moving and hobbled by
bureaucracy. Instead, many farm employers turned to hiring illegal immigrants.
Bush administration officials estimated that as many as two-thirds of workers in
American agriculture were in the United States illegally.

The executive director of Farmworker Justice, Bruce Goldstein, said that since
the regulations took effect, wages for guest workers as well as American farm
workers had fallen across the country. In North Carolina, Mr. Goldstein said,
many immigrant guest workers who had earned $8.85 an hour last year were earning
$7.25 an hour this year for the same stoop labor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2009 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

AIDS: Discrimination in Visa Laws Poses Risk To Those With AIDS, Rights Group
Says

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL HEALTH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 269 words


International migrant workers, foreign students and political refugees are often
endangered by laws that discriminate against people with AIDS, the advocacy
group Human Rights Watch reported last week.

About a third of the world's countries limit the right of people with H.I.V. to
enter or stay, even if their disease is under control with drugs. Some restrict
their access to health care.

The report describes how guest workers from poor countries like the Philippines
and Sri Lanka working in wealthy ones like Saudi Arabia may be given mandatory
H.I.V. testing -- sometimes without their knowledge -- and deported, often
without being able to claim back wages and sometimes after imprisonment without
treatment.

The group said the visa restrictions had led people to commit fraud or stop
treatment, risking their lives. The report detailed one study in which travelers
from Britain stopped taking their AIDS pills or tried to mail them ahead,
sometimes unsuccessfully, out of fear that they would be denied visas to the
United States if they admitted being infected, or would be searched at the
border.

Wealthy countries often deport people without considering whether they will have
access to medical care elsewhere, the report said. South Korea, for example, has
deported hundreds of foreign workers, and some deportees from the United States,
especially those with criminal records, have been jailed without treatment and
died in custody.

The International Organization for Migration estimates 3 percent of the world's
population -- 192 million people -- live outside the country where they were
born.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP: PREVALANCE OF H.I.V.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 144 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2009 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Worker Shortage

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words


To the Editor:  Jordan  Hruska's moving account in his article ''Down the
Eastern Shore'' (July 12) of a Maryland tradition failed to mention that the
tradition itself is in grave danger.

Maryland's crab industry relies on a steady supply of foreign workers to stay
afloat. These workers fill the part-time, seasonal positions picking meat from
crabs, supporting thousands of American jobs in the process. Currently
Maryland's crab houses don't have these workers due to a national cap placed on
the number of H-2B visas available for seasonal summer employment.

We've introduced legislation to permit a limited number of guest workers from
past years to return to certain industries. The bill will exempt returning
seasonal workers from counting against the national seasonal cap -- and ensure a
steady stream of reliable, dedicated workers.

Unfortunately, the bill is caught up in a Congressional logjam. If Congress does
not act fast to pass it, the tradition Mr. Hruska so eloquently described -- and
the American jobs it supports  --  may become a thing of the past.

Barbara A. Mikulski and Frank M. Kratovil Jr.  Washington, D.C.

The writers are a Democratic senator and a Democratic  congressman from
Maryland.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
